WAYNESVILLE, OHIO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through December 18, 2023
State legislation current through February 28, 2024
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588
www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE 2018-056
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE VILLAGE OF WAYNESVILLE,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Ohio empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
   WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Village of Waynesville has
authorized a general compilation, revision, and codification of the ordinances
of the Village of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Village Council of the Village of
Waynesville, 7 members elected thereto concurring:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the Code of Ordinances of the Village of Waynesville.
   Section 2. Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall be in the
form on file with the Clerk of Council.
   Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, money,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
   Section 4. Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Village of
Waynesville is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
   Section 5. Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in
Section 6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places
of the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations
therein contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly
signed, attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and
notices thereof as required by law have been given.
   Section 6. That this Ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure
necessary for the preservation of the public peace, health, safety and general
welfare and shall be effective immediately upon its adoption. The reason for
said declaration of emergency is the need to provide for the usual daily
operation of the municipality without interruption.
Adopted this 3rd day of December, 2018.
Attest:
                                                                                              
    Clerk of Council                     Mayor
ORDINANCE NO. 2020 - 041
      ENACTING AND ADOPTING THE SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE
VILLAGE OF WAYNESVILLE, OHIO, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Village Council of the Village of Waynesville, Ohio,
_____ members elected thereto concurring:
   Section 1. That the Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Waynesville, Ohio, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, said Supplements being on file with the Clerk of Council, who
certifies that the codification, renumbering and rearrangement in book form is
correct, is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference as if set out herein
in its entirety.
   Section 2. That this Ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure
necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare and shall be effective immediately upon its passage. The
reason for said declaration of emergency is the need to enact and adopt the
Supplements at the earliest possible date in order to provide for the usual
daily operation of the municipality without interruption.
   Adopted this 17th day of August, 2020.
Attest: _________________________      __________________________
    Clerk of Council                     Mayor
ORDINANCE NO. 2021 - 027
      ENACTING AND ADOPTING THE SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE
VILLAGE OF WAYNESVILLE, OHIO, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Village Council of the Village of Waynesville, Ohio,
_____ members elected thereto concurring:
   Section 1. That the Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Waynesville, Ohio, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, said Supplements being on file with the Clerk of Council, who
certifies that the codification, renumbering and rearrangement in book form is
correct, is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference as if set out herein
in its entirety.
   Section 2. That this Ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure
necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare and shall be effective immediately upon its passage. The
reason for said declaration of emergency is the need to enact and adopt the
Supplements at the earliest possible date in order to provide for the usual
daily operation of the municipality without interruption.
   Adopted this 6th day of July, 2021.
Attest: _________________________      ___________________________
    Clerk of Council               Mayor
CHARTER OF THE MUNICIPALITY OF WAYNESVILLE, OHIO
   Editor’s note:
   The Waynesville Charter was approved by the voters at the regular Municipal
election on May 3, 1994. Certain amendments to the Charter were approved by the
voters at the regular Municipal election on November 8, 2016.
   In an effort to be gender neutral, the term “he/she” is used occasionally in
this document. If the reader notes the use of “he” or “she” (or variations)
alone, the intent is to refer to both sexes.
Section
Preamble
Article I. Name and Boundaries; Form of Government
   
1.01   Name and Boundaries
   
1.02   Form of Government
Article II. Corporate Powers
   
2.01   Powers of the Municipality
   
2.02   Manner of Exercise of Powers
   
2.03   Construction of Powers
   
2.04   Intergovernmental Relations
Article III. Mayor and Council
   
3.01   Mayor
   
3.02   Council: Number Selection, and Term
   
3.03   Member of Council Qualifications
   
3.04   Prohibitions
   
3.05   Vacancies, Forfeiture of Office and Filling of Vacancies
   
3.06   Beginning of Term of Office
   
3.07   Organization and Meetings
   
3.08   Special Council Meetings and Emergency Meetings
   
3.09   Powers of Council
   
3.10   Salary of Elected Officials
   
3.11   Clerk of Council
   
3.12   Mayors Court and Clerk of Court
   
3.13   Mayor’s Court Magistrate
   
3.14   Duties of the Clerk of Court
Article IV. Legislative Procedure
   
4.01   Action to be Taken by Ordinance or Resolution
   
4.02   Introduction of Ordinances and Resolutions
   
4.03   Style of Ordinances and Resolutions
   
4.04   Subject of Ordinances and Resolutions
   
4.05   Reading of Ordinances and Resolutions
   
4.06   Vote Required for Passage of Ordinances and Resolutions
   
4.07   Content of Emergency Ordinances and Resolutions
   
4.08   Effective Date of Ordinances and Resolutions
   
4.09   Authentication of Ordinances and Resolutions
   
4.10   Recording of Ordinances and Resolutions
   
4.11   Amendment of Ordinances and Resolutions
   
4.12   Referral of Zoning Ordinances to Planning Commission
   
4.13   Public Hearing on Zoning Ordinance or Resolution
   
4.14   Adoption of Technical Codes by Reference
   
4.15   Review and Codification of Ordinances and Resolutions
   
4.16   Posting and Publication of Ordinances and Resolutions
Article V. Manager
   
5.01   Appointment, Qualifications and Compensation
   
5.02   Removal
   
5.03   Acting Manager
   
5.04   Powers and Duties of the Manager
Article VI. Administrative Departments
   
6.01   Creation of Departments
   
6.02   Department of Law — Law Director
   
6.03   Powers and Duties of the Law Director
   
6.04   Department of Finance — Finance Director
   
6.05   Powers and Duties of the Finance Director
   
6.06   Department of Planning
   
6.07   Department of Service
   
6.08   Department of Safety
   
6.09   Department of Inspection and Engineering
   
6.10   Department of Parks and Recreation
   
6.11   Heads of Other Departments and Divisions
Article VII. Boards and Commissions
   
7.01   Qualifications and Appointment of Boards and Commissions
   
7.02   Vacancies and Forfeiture of Office
   
7.03   Planning Commission — Membership
   
7.04   Planning Commission — Powers and Duties
   
7.05   Board of Appeals — Membership
   
7.06   Board of Appeals — Powers and Duties
   
7.07   Parks and Recreation Board — Membership
   
7.08   Parks and Recreation Board — Powers and Duties
   
7.09   Historical Preservation Board — Membership
   
7.10   Historical Preservation Board — Powers and Duties
   
7.11   Removal of Members
   
7.12   Other Boards and Commissions
   
7.13   Organization and Maintenance of Records
   
7.13   Appeals
Article VIII. Nominations and Elections
   
8.01   Nominations
   
8.02   Regular Municipal Elections
   
8.03   Special Elections
   
8.04   Conduct of Elections
Article IX. Initiative, Referendum, Referral and Recall
   
9.01   Initiative
   
9.02   Referendum
   
9.03   Referral of Ordinance or Resolution to the Electors by Council
   
9.04   Recall
Article X. Finances, Taxation and Debt
   
10.01   General
   
10.02   Limitation on Tax Rate
   
10.03   Limitation of Debt
Article XI. General Provisions
   
11.01   Succession
   
11.02   Effect of Charter on Existing Laws and Rights
   
11.03   Amendments to Charter — Procedure
   
11.04   Charter Review Commission
   
11.05   Effect of Partial Invalidity
   
11.06   Conflict of Interest
   
11.07   Utilities
   Glossary
PREAMBLE
   We the people of Waynesville, Warren County, Ohio, desirous of securing for
our municipality and for ourselves and our children the advantages of self-
government conferred by the home rule provisions of the Ohio Constitution, do
hereby ordain and establish the following Charter:
ARTICLE I. NAME AND BOUNDARIES; FORM OF GOVERNMENT
SECTION 1.01 NAME AND BOUNDARIES.
   The municipal corporation existing as the Village of Waynesville under the
general statutes of the State of Ohio shall continue to be politic and
corporate under the same name under this Charter. The Municipality shall have
the same boundaries that exist on the effective date of this Charter, with
power and authority to change its boundaries and annex territory in the manner
authorized by the laws of Ohio. When the Municipality shall attain the status
of a city, under the Constitution and laws of Ohio, it shall be known as the
“City of Waynesville.” As used in this Charter, “municipality” shall mean the
municipal corporation of Waynesville.
SECTION 1.02 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided in this Charter shall be known as the
“Council-Manager Plan.” The powers and functions of the municipal government
shall be distributed among the Municipality, its citizens, and the various
officers, bodies, boards and commissions as provided in this Charter.
ARTICLE II. CORPORATE POWERS
SECTION 2.01 POWERS OF THE MUNICIPALITY.
   The Municipality shall have all powers of local self-government and home
rule now or hereafter granted to municipalities by the laws of the State of
Ohio. All such powers shall be exercised in the manner prescribed in this
Charter in such lawful manner as the Council shall determine by ordinance or
resolution. When not prescribed in this Charter or enacted by Council, such
powers shall be exercised in the manner as may now or hereafter be authorized
by the laws of the State of Ohio.
SECTION 2.02 MANNER OF EXERCISE OF POWERS.
   All such powers shall be exercised in the manner prescribed in this Charter,
or if not prescribed herein, in such manner as shall be provided by ordinance
or resolution of the Council.
SECTION 2.03 CONSTRUCTION OF POWERS.
   The powers of the Municipality under this Charter shall be construed
liberally in favor of the Municipality, and the specific mention of particular
powers in the Charter shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general
power stated in this article.
SECTION 2.04 INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS.
   The Municipality may exercise any of its powers or perform any of its
functions and may participate in the financing thereof, jointly or in
cooperation, by contract or otherwise, with any one or more political
subdivisions, states or civil divisions or agencies thereof, or the United
States or any agency thereof.
ARTICLE III. MAYOR AND COUNCIL
SECTION 3.01 MAYOR.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be elected, at large, by separate non-partisan ballot
for a four year term. Candidates for the office of Mayor shall have resided in
the Municipality for at least one year prior to assuming office. The Mayor,
when elected and throughout the term of office, shall be and must remain a
resident and a qualified elector of the Municipality. The Mayor shall be a
member of Council and have the right to vote on all matters before the Council,
but shall have no veto power. In addition to the powers, rights, and duties as
a member of Council, the Mayor shall serve as President of Council and shall
preside at all meetings of the Council. The Mayor shall be the head of the
municipal government for all ceremonial and non-administrative purposes and
shall be chief spokesperson for the Municipality in dealing with other
governments. The Mayor shall have judicial powers as provided by the general
laws of Ohio and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed, from
time to time, by ordinance of the Council.
   (B)   During its organizational meeting the Council shall choose, by an
affirmative vote of at least four members of Council, one of its members as
President pro tempore who shall act as Mayor during the temporary absence or
disability of the Mayor.
   (C)    In case of the death, resignation, or removal of the Mayor, the
President pro tempore shall hold the office of Mayor until a qualified
successor is elected. Such successor shall be elected to the office of Mayor
for the unexpired term at the next Municipal election that occurs more than
ninety days after the vacancy in the office of Mayor has occurred, except that
when the unexpired term ends within one year immediately following the date of
such election, an election to fill such unexpired term shall not be held and
the President pro tempore shall hold the office of Mayor for the remainder of
such unexpired term. Upon the election of a person as Mayor other than the
President pro tempore then serving as Mayor, the President pro tempore shall
remain a member of Council for the remainder of his/her term.
(Amendments approved 11-7-2023)
SECTION 3.02 COUNCIL: NUMBER, SELECTION, AND TERM.
   Except as reserved to the people by this Charter, the legislative powers of
the municipal government shall be vested in a Council of seven members
including the Mayor. Members of Council, other than the Mayor, shall be elected
at large by non-partisan ballot for four year overlapping terms.
SECTION 3.03 MEMBER OF COUNCIL QUALIFICATIONS.
   Candidates for the office of Member of Council shall have resided in the
Municipality for at least one year prior to assuming office. Each Member of
Council when elected and throughout the term of office shall be and must remain
a resident and a qualified elector of the Municipality.
(Amendments approved 11-7-2000)
SECTION 3.04 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Holding Other Offices. Except where authorized by this Charter, the
Mayor or any other Council member shall hold no other municipal or county
employment or office nor be a municipal employee of Waynesville during the term
elected to Council.
   (B)   Administrative Service Appointments and Removals. Neither the Council
nor any of its members shall in any manner dictate the appointment or removal
of any municipal officer or employee whom the Manager or any of his/her
subordinates are empowered to appoint or remove by this Charter or by
ordinance. Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, neither the Council
nor its members shall give any orders to any such official or employee,
publicly or privately. The Council shall express and discuss its views of
municipal personnel matters with the Manager.
(Amendments approved 8-7-2017)
SECTION 3.05 VACANCIES, FORFEITURE OF OFFICE, AND FILLING OF VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. The office of a Council member shall become vacant upon the
Council member’s death, resignation, removal from office in any manner
authorized by this Charter, or forfeiture of office.
   (B)   Forfeiture of Office. If it is so determined by an affirmative vote of
at least four Council members, a Council member shall forfeit office if said
Council member:
      (1)   Lacks at any time during a term of office, any qualifications for
the office prescribed by this Charter:
      (2)   Intentionally violates any express prohibition of this Charter;
      (3)   Is found to have been a party to a crime involving moral turpitude
or any felony, or guilty of misfeasance, malfeasance or nonfeasance in the
performance of the official duties of a Council member;
      (4)   Fails to attend three consecutive regular meetings of Council
without being excused. Council shall, by rule, determine and list conditions
and circumstances which constitute good cause for absence.
   (C)   Disability. On questions of disability involving the Mayor or other
Council member, the decision as to actuality of the time of, and duration of
the disability, for purpose of declaring a vacancy, shall be determined by an
affirmative vote of at least four members of Council.
   (D)   Filling of Vacancies. Vacancies in the office of Council member shall
be filled within forty-five days by an affirmative vote of at least four of the
remaining members of Council. If a vacancy occurs in one or more positions
among Council members, Council of the new term shall appoint, by an affirmative
vote of at least four members, an eligible citizen of the Municipality of
Waynesville. If the Council fails to do so within forty-five days following the
occurrence of the vacancy, the power of Council to fill the vacancy shall lapse
and the Mayor shall fill the vacancy by appointment at the next regularly
scheduled Council meeting following the expiration of the said forty-five days.
The person so appointed shall serve until the next Municipal election occurring
not less that ninety days thereafter at which time a successor shall be elected
for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(Amendments approved 11-7-2000; Amendments approved 11-7-2023)
SECTION 3.06 BEGINNING OF TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of Members of Council and other elected officials shall commence on
the first day of January following their election.
SECTION 3.07 ORGANIZATION AND MEETINGS.
   (A)   Following each regular municipal election, the Council shall meet not
later than the seventh day of January for the purpose of organizing. At such
meeting, the newly elected members of Council shall take the oath of office and
the Council may transact such other business as may come before it. Thereafter,
regular meetings shall be held as prescribed by ordinance, but not less
frequently than once each month.
   (B)   All meetings of Council shall be open to the public, except, that the
Council may by a majority vote of the members present eneter into an executive
session only for those purposes allowed by the general laws of the State of
Ohio. A majority of the members of Council shall constitute a quorum at all
meetings.
(Amendments approved 11-7-2023)
SECTION 3.08 SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETINGS AND EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings may be called by an affirmative vote of at least four
members of Council taken at any regular or special meeting thereof or may be
called by the Mayor, or any three members of Council.
   (B)   The Clerk of Council shall notify all news media who have requested
such notification in writing.
   (C)   Public notice of each special meeting of Council shall be made by the
Clerk of Council, by at least one of the following:
      (1)   Posting a notice of the special meeting at a location accessible to
the public at the municipal building and at least four other conspicuous places
in the Municipality frequented by the public. The notices shall contain the
time, place, and all matters to be considered at the special meeting. No other
matters may be considered after notice is given. These notices must be posted
at least 24 hours before the starting time of the meeting.
      (2)   Publication in a newspaper determined by Council to be of
circulation within the Municipality at least 24 hours before the special
meeting.
      (3)   Failure to notify the public by the aforementioned means shall
invalidate actions taken by Council at the special meeting.
   (D)   In the event of an emergency situation that affects the immediate
public health, safety or welfare of the Municipality, the Mayor may call an
emergency meeting of Council by waiving the above requirements.
(Amendments approved 11-7-2000)
SECTION 3.09 POWERS OF COUNCIL.
   All legislative power of the Municipality shall be vested in the Council,
except as otherwise provided by this Charter and the Constitution of the State
of Ohio. Without limitation of the foregoing, the Council shall have and
possess the following powers:
   (A)   The power to levy taxes and incur debts subject to the limitations
imposed by this Charter or the State of Ohio.
   (B)   The power to adopt and to provide for the enforcement of local police,
sanitary and other similar regulations as are not in conflict with general
laws.
   (C)   The power to provide for the exercise of all powers of local self
government granted to the Municipality by the Constitution of the State of Ohio
in a manner not inconsistent with this Charter or the Constitution of the State
of Ohio.
   (D)   The power to establish the number of employees in the various offices,
departments, divisions, bureaus, boards and commissions of the Municipality by
ordinance only and to establish the rates, ranges and methods of their
compensation, their hours of work, and to provide such fringe benefits as
deemed proper by the Council. The Council may, by ordinance, delegate any of
its powers under this sub-section to the Manager and/or re-assume any of its
powers.
   (E)   The power to require such bonds as in the opinion of the Council are
necessary for the faithful discharge of the duties of the officers and
employees of the Municipality. The premium for said bonds shall be paid by the
Municipality.
   (F)   The power to create other offices, departments, divisions, bureaus,
boards, and commissions; and the power to combine, change and abolish any
office, department, division, bureau, board or commission established by
Council. The power hereinabove expressed in this sub-section shall be exercised
by an ordinance adopted by the affirmative vote of at least five members of
Council. The Council shall not abolish the offices of Manager, Mayor, President
pro tempore, Clerk of Council, Council members, Finance Director and Law
Director.
   (G)   The power to adopt and provide for the enforcement of zoning
classifications, districts, uses and regulations by ordinance; to adopt and
provide for the enforcement of ordinances regulating the subdivision and
platting of land within the Municipality; to regulate the subdivision and
platting of land outside of the boundaries of the Municipality as provided by
general law; to adopt and provide for the enforcement of ordinances requiring
actual construction or assurance of construction of streets, utility lines and
facilities, sidewalks, curbs and gutters and other improvements or facilities
as a condition precedent to the approval of a plat or a subdivision; to adopt
and provide for the enforcement of ordinances regulating the construction,
reconstruction, alteration, enlargement, repair or demolition of buildings and
other structures as defined by ordinance, within the Municipality; to adopt and
to provide for the enforcement of housing codes or ordinances, regulating the
use and occupancy of any building or structure, as defined by said codes or
ordinances, within the Municipality.
   (H)   The power to establish, by ordinance, the rates of charges made to
consumers of all municipal utilities and services.
   (I)   The power to grant permission by ordinance to any person, firm or
corporation to construct and operate a public utility on, across, under or
above any public street or ground within the Municipality. It may prescribe in
the ordinance the kind and quality of service or product to be furnished, the
rate or rates to be charged therefore, and other terms conducive to the public
interest; provided that such grant of permission shall not extend beyond
twenty-five years, however such grant may be amended or renewed in the manner
and subject to the provisions established by this Charter for original grants.
No consent of the owners of property abutting on any public street or ground
shall be necessary to the effectiveness of any such grant, amendment or
renewal. All such grants, amendments or renewals shall be made subject to the
continuing right of the Council to provide reasonable regulations for adequacy
of service and maintenance and the operation of such utilities with reference
to such streets and public grounds, including the right to require such
reconstruction, relocation or discontinuance of appliances, plant or equipment
used in such streets or public grounds as shall, in the opinion of Council, be
necessary in the public interest.
   (J)   The power to acquire title to or interests in real property shall be
vested in the Council whether such property is acquired by the exercise of the
power of eminent domain, purchase, gift, lease, devise, bequest, in trust, or
otherwise. The power to sell or otherwise convey, lease or grant interests in
real property shall be vested in the Council. Such sale, conveyance, lease or
grant shall be in the manner as provided by the ordinance authorizing the sale,
conveyance, lease, or grant. Title to all real property shall be taken in the
name of the Municipality.
   (K)   The power to exercise all other powers granted to the Council by this
Charter and by the Constitution and laws of the State of Ohio.
SECTION 3.10 SALARY OF ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   The members of Council shall be compensated for each regular meeting
attended. The Mayor shall receive an annual salary. The Council may change the
salaries of members of Council and the Mayor by ordinance adopted by an
affirmative vote of at least five members of Council. Any ordinance changing
the salary of members of Council or the Mayor shall be adopted at least ninety
days prior to the next ensuing election at which the members of Council are to
be elected, and shall be effective on the first day of January following such
election for newly elected Council members only. The compensation of all other
officers and employees of the Municipality may be increased or decreased at any
time by ordinance.
SECTION 3.11 CLERK OF COUNCIL.
   Council, by an affirmative vote of at least five members, shall appoint a
qualified person to be Clerk of Council who shall serve at the pleasure of
Council. The Clerk shall be chosen from outside the membership of the Council
but may hold other positions within the Municipality. The Clerk shall give
notice of Council meetings, advertise public hearings, record in journals all
ordinances and resolutions approved by the Council, and see that such
enactments are published as required by this Charter. The Clerk shall also
perform such other duties as may be assigned by this Charter, or by ordinance
or resolution of the Council. The Clerk may be appointed to serve full or part
time and shall receive a salary as established by ordinance for services
rendered. The Clerk may be removed by an affirmative vote of at least five
members of Council.
SECTION 3.12 MAYOR’S COURT AND CLERK OF COURT.
   (A)   The Mayor’s Court shall remain in existence until the State of Ohio
provides a municipal court.
   (B)   The Mayor’s Court shall have all powers conferred by the Ohio Revised
Code.
   (C)   All cases in the Mayor’s Court shall be referred to the Mayor’s Court
Magistrate.
   (D)   Appeals from the Waynesville Mayor’s Court shall be referred to the
Warren County Court as provided by the Ohio Revised Code and must be filed
within ten days of the Court entry.
   (E)   The Clerk of Court shall be responsible to the Magistrate in all
judicial matters. The Clerk of Court shall be hired by the Manager and may be
employed in another department.
SECTION 3.13 MAYOR’S COURT MAGISTRATE.
   (A)   Jurisdiction of Magistrate. Jurisdiction shall extend to violations of
all municipal ordinances, all criminal causes involving any moving traffic
violation occurring on a state highway located within the boundaries of the
municipal corporation, and to hear and determine criminal causes involving a
violation of Ohio Revised Code Section 4511.19. In hearing and determining
prosecutions and causes filed within the Mayor's Court, the Magistrate shall be
deemed to have the same powers, duties, and authority as does the Mayor,
including, but not limited to, the power and authority to decide the
prosecution or cause, enter judgement, and impose sentence. Judgement entered
and a sentence imposed by the Mayor's Court Magistrate herein does not have to
be reviewed or approved by the Mayor and shall have the same force and effect
as if it had been entered or imposed by the Mayor.
   (B)   Qualifications of Magistrate. The Magistrate shall be an attorney
licensed to practice in the State of Ohio, and for a total of at least three
years has been engaged in the practice of law in the State or served as a Judge
of a Court of record in any jurisdiction in the United States.
   (C)   Appointment of Magistrate. The Mayor may appoint a person as Mayor's
Court Magistrate to hear and determine prosecutions and criminal causes in the
Mayor's Court that are within the jurisdiction of the Mayor's Court, as set
forth in section 1905.01 of the Revised Code.
   (D)   Compensation. The municipal corporation shall pay the compensation for
the services of the magistrate, which shall be either a fixed annual salary set
by the legislative authority of the municipal corporation or a fixed annual
amount or fees for services rendered set under a contract the magistrate and
the municipal corporation enter into.
(Amendments approved 11-5-2019)
SECTION 3.14 DUTIES OF THE CLERK OF COURT.
   The Clerk of Court shall attend all Mayor’s Court proceedings and maintain a
ledger of all offenses and violations within the Municipality. The Clerk shall
account for all monies received from bonds, fines, or cases. The Clerk shall
dispense all monies to the proper governmental agencies with the proper
paperwork. The Clerk shall be bonded.
(Amendments approved 8-7-2017)
ARTICLE IV. LEGISLATIVE PROCEDURE
SECTION 4.01 ACTION TO BE TAKEN BY ORDINANCE OR RESOLUTION.
   Action of Council shall be by ordinance, resolution, or motion. Every action
of a general and permanent nature; or granting a franchise; or levying a tax;
or appropriating money; or contracting an indebtedness, to be evidenced by the
issuance of bonds or notes; or for the purchase, lease or transfer of public
property; or establishing an offense and fixing the penalty therefor shall be
taken by ordinance or resolution in the manner hereinafter provided. All other
action may be by motion.
SECTION 4.02 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   Any member of Council may, at a regular or special meeting, introduce any
ordinance or resolution.
SECTION 4.03 STYLE OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   Each ordinance and resolution shall begin with a title that contains a
complete summary of the actions being taken in the ordinance or resolution.
Each ordinance shall contain an enacting clause as follows: “Be It Ordained by
the Council of the Municipality of Waynesville, State of Ohio;” and each
resolution shall contain an enacting clause as follows: “Be It Resolved by the
Council of the Municipality of Waynesville, State of Ohio.”
(Amendments approved 11-7-2000)
SECTION 4.04 SUBJECT OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   Each ordinance or resolution shall contain only one subject which shall be
expressed in its title, provided however, that appropriation ordinances may
contain the various subjects, account, and amounts for which moneys are
appropriated, and the ordinances and resolutions which are codified or
recodified are not subject to the limitation of containing one subject.
SECTION 4.05 READING OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   Each ordinance or resolution shall be read by title on two separate days
with the second reading of any such ordinance or resolution being no earlier
than the next regularly scheduled Council meeting. Copies of the ordinance or
resolution before Council for each reading shall be made available to the
public at the Council meeting and shall be posted in the Council Room.
   (A)   The Council may, by an affirmative vote of at least five members,
dispense with the requirement that an ordinance or resolution shall be read on
two separate days, and authorize the adoption of an ordinance or resolution
upon its first reading.
   (B)   The Council may, by an affirmative vote of at least four members,
require that an ordinance or resolution shall be read fully and distinctly for
its first or second reading or for both its first and second reading.
   (C)   Motions to dispense with any requirements of this section as
authorized by paragraphs (A) and (B) hereof shall be separately stated.
   (D)   Unless approved by an affirmative vote of at least six members of
Council, motions authorized by paragraph (A) shall not apply to ordinances or
resolutions that pertain to zoning classifications, districts or regulations,
regulations governing the platting and subdivision of land, the levying of a
tax, the incurring of a debt to be evidenced by bonds or notes, or the changing
of salaries of members of Council or the Mayor.
(Amendments approved 11-7-2000)
SECTION 4.06 VOTE REQUIRED FOR PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   (A)   The vote on the question of passage of each ordinance and resolution
shall be taken by yeas and nays and entered in the Journal, and an ordinance or
resolution shall be passed by an affirmative vote of at least four members of
Council, except that each emergency ordinance or resolution shall require the
affirmative vote of at least five members of Council for its enactment;
provided, however, that if such ordinance or resolution shall fail to receive
the required five affirmative votes, but receives the necessary four votes for
passage as non-emergency ordinance or resolution, it shall be considered passed
as a non-emergency ordinance or resolution and shall become effective as
hereinafter provided by this Charter.
   (B)   A motion may be passed by an affirmative vote of at least four of the
Council members present.
SECTION 4.07 CONTENT OF EMERGENCY ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   Each emergency ordinance or resolution shall determine that said ordinance
or resolution is necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
health, safety, or welfare, and shall contain a statement of the necessity for
such emergency. No ordinance or resolution pertaining to the following matters
may be adopted as an emergency measure: zoning classifications, districts or
regulations; regulations governing the platting and subdivision of land; the
levying of a tax or the incurring of a debt to be evidenced by bonds or notes,
unless such tax or debt shall be necessary to provide or replace municipal
facilities, equipment or buildings and the need for such facilities, equipment
or buildings arises out of a public crisis or need; or the changing of salaries
of members of Council or the Mayor.
(Amendments approved 11-7-2000)
SECTION 4.08 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   Each ordinance or resolution providing for the appropriation of money,
annual tax levy for current expenses, improvements petitioned for by the owners
of the requisite majority of the front footage or of the area of the property
benefitted and to be especially assessed therefore, submission of any question
to the electorate of the determination to proceed with an election, providing
for the approval of a revision, codification, recodification, rearrangement of
ordinances and resolutions, or publication thereof in book form, and any
emergency ordinance or resolution shall take effect, unless a later time be
specified therein, immediately upon its passage. No other ordinance or
resolution shall go into effect until thirty days following its passage by the
Council.
SECTION 4.09 AUTHENTICATION OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   Each ordinance or resolution shall be authenticated by the signature of the
Mayor and the Clerk of Council; however, the failure or refusal of such
officers to sign such ordinances or resolutions shall not invalidate an
otherwise properly enacted ordinance or resolution.
SECTION 4.10 RECORDING OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   Each ordinance or resolution shall be recorded in a journal, or other record
prescribed by the Council, established and maintained for that purpose. The
Clerk of Council or a duly authorized deputy to said Clerk, shall, upon the
request of any person and upon the payment of a fee, as established by the
Council, certify true copies of any ordinance or resolution.
SECTION 4.11 AMENDMENT OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   (A)   No ordinance or resolution or any section thereof, shall be revised or
amended unless the new ordinance or resolution contains the entire ordinance,
resolution or section or sub-section as revised or amended, and the ordinance,
resolution or section or sub-section so amended shall be repealed. This
requirement shall not prevent the amendment of an ordinance or resolution by
the addition of a new section, sections, sub-section or sub-sections and in
such case the full text of the former ordinance or resolution need not be set
forth.
   (B)   Except in the case of a codification or recodification of ordinances
and resolutions, a separate vote shall be taken on each ordinance or resolution
proposed to be amended.
   (C)   Ordinances and resolutions that have been introduced and have received
their first reading, or their first and second reading, but have not been voted
on as to passage, may be amended and revised upon approval by an affirmative
vote of at least four members of Council, and such an amended or revised
ordinance or resolution will then need one additional reading in final form.
SECTION 4.12 REFERRAL OF ZONING ORDINANCES TO PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Each ordinance or resolution establishing, amending, revising,
changing or repealing zoning classifications, districts, uses, or regulations
shall be referred to the Planning Commission prior to passage. Within thirty-
one days of such referral the Planning Commission shall cause such ordinance or
resolution to be returned to the Clerk of Council together with the written
recommendations of the majority of the members of such commission unless said
time is extended by Council.
   (B)   Affirmative votes of at least four members of Council shall be
required to adopt an ordinance concurring with the recommendation of the
Planning Commission as per section 4.06 of the Charter.
   (C)   Affirmative votes of at least four members of Council shall be
required to adopt an ordinance that modifies the recommendation of the Planning
Commission.
   (D)   If any ordinance receives fewer votes than set forth in sections (B)
or (C) above, the recommendation of the Planning Commission shall be considered
rejected. Council may at its option refer the matter back to the Planning
Commission for further consideration and recommendation.
(Amendments approved 11-7-2000; Amendments approved 8-7-2017)
SECTION 4.13 PUBLIC HEARING ON ZONING ORDINANCE OR RESOLUTION.
   (A)   The procedure for holding a public hearing on a zoning ordinance or
resolution as described below shall be followed whenever an ordinance or
resolution establishes, amends, revises, changes, or repeals a zoning
classification or zoning district or zoning regulation. The procedure shall be
the following:
      (1)   The Mayor or other presiding officer of Council shall set a date
for a public hearing. The public hearing shall not be held before the Planning
Commission has returned its written recommendation to the Clerk of Council.
      (2)   The Clerk of Council shall publish an announcement of the public
hearing at least one time in a newspaper determined by the Council to be of
circulation within the Municipality. The announcement shall be published not
less than two weeks before the public hearing. The announcement shall contain
the date, time, location and topic of the public hearing.
      (3)   If the ordinance or resolution involves less than eleven parcels of
land, as listed on the tax duplicate, written notice of the hearing shall be
mailed by the Clerk of Council to the owners of property within and contiguous
to and directly across the street from the parcel or parcels of land affected
by the ordinance or resolution. The addresses for the written notices shall be
as recorded on the County Auditor’s current tax list or the Treasurer’s mailing
list. Council may require other addresses as needed. The written notice(s)
shall be sent by certified mail with a return receipt at least thirty days
before the date of the public hearing.
   (B)   In the event that the announcement of the public hearing, and/or the
notification of contiguous property owners is not made within the time period
prescribed by this Charter, the ordinance or resolution of concern shall not be
invalidated.
SECTION 4.14 ADOPTION OF TECHNICAL CODES BY REFERENCE.
   Council may, by ordinance or resolution, adopt standard ordinances and codes
prepared by the State or any department, board or other agency or political
subdivision of the State, or any standard or model ordinance or code prepared
and promulgated by a public or private organization, including but not limited
to codes and regulations pertaining to fire, fire hazards, fire prevention,
plumbing code, electrical code, building code, refrigeration machinery code,
piping code, boiler code, heating code, air conditioning code, housing code,
and such other matters as the Council may determine to be appropriate for
adoption by reference, or incorporation by reference. The ordinance adopting
any such standard ordinance or code shall make reference to the date and source
of such standard ordinance or code without reproducing the same at length in
the ordinance. In such cases, publication of the standard ordinance or code
shall not be required, but at least one copy of such code shall be kept at all
times in the office of the Clerk of Council and available for reference by
interested persons and copies of such standard ordinance or code may be
available for sale by said Clerk. If the standard ordinance or code, after its
adoption by reference by the Council, is amended, the Council may adopt the
amendment or change by incorporation by reference in an ordinance under the
same procedure as is established herein for the adoption of the original
standard ordinance or code without the necessity of setting forth in full in
the ordinance the provisions either of the amendment or change to the original
ordinance or the standard ordinance or code.
SECTION 4.15 REVIEW AND CODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   (A)   At least one year prior to codifying or recodifying ordinances and
resolutions, the Council shall appoint an Ordinance Review Commission of not
less than seven qualified electors of the Municipality. It shall be the duty of
this Commission to review the existing ordinances of the Municipality and make
recommendations to the Council for removal from the records of the Municipality
any such ordinances which may have outlived their usefulness or practicality.
The Commission shall submit its report to Council within one year after its
appointment. The Council shall then take such action as it deems warranted with
respect to the recommendations of the Commission.
   (B)   At least every five years or at any time, by an affirmative vote of at
least four members of Council, Council may cause the ordinances and resolutions
of the Municipality to be revised, codified, recodified, rearranged, or
published in book form. Such revisions, codification, recodification,
rearrangement or publication of ordinances and resolutions in book form shall
be immediately effective upon approval by an affirmative vote of at least four
members of Council and may contain new matter herein.
   (C)   The Clerk of Council shall cause a notice of such proposed revision,
codification, recodification, rearrangement or publication of ordinances and
resolutions in book form be published one time in a newspaper determined by the
Council to be of circulation within the Municipality at least seven days prior
to the final approval thereof by the Council. The notice that is to be
published shall state the date, time and place of the meeting. The full text of
the revision, codification, recodification, rearrangement or publication of
ordinances and resolutions in book form need not be published.
   (D)   A current service (updates) supplementing such revision, codification,
recodification, rearrangement or publication of ordinances and resolutions in
book form shall be maintained in the manner prescribed by the Council.
SECTION 4.16 POSTING AND PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   (A)   The Clerk of Council shall cause each ordinance and resolution adopted
to be published by posting a copy of the ordinance or resolution in the place
in the Municipality as determined by the Council, for a period of fifteen days
at the Municipal building.
   (B)   Failure to post ordinances or resolutions as required by this section,
or an omission, delay or error in such posting or failure to maintain posting
of an adopted ordinance or resolution for a period of fifteen days as required
above in this section, shall not invalidate any ordinance or resolution, nor
shall such failure give rise to a defense to any action or prosecution brought
under any ordinance or resolution, and in such events the Clerk of Council may
authorize posting at a later date, but such later posting shall not be
mandatory or necessary to the validity of any ordinance or resolution of action
or prosecution thereunder.
   (C)   In addition to the posting required above after an ordinance or
resolution has been adopted, the Council may direct the Clerk of Council to
publish notices of pending ordinances and resolutions prior to their adoption,
but such prior publication of such notices shall not be mandatory or necessary
to the validity of any ordinance or resolution or action or prosecution
thereunder.
(Amendments approved 11-7-2023)
ARTICLE V. MANAGER
SECTION 5.01 APPOINTMENT, QUALIFICATIONS AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Manager shall be appointed by an affirmative vote of at least five
members of Council. The Manager shall be appointed solely on the basis of
executive and administrative qualifications.
   (B)   Compensation will be set by ordinance by the Council.
(Amendments approved 11-7-2023)
SECTION 5.02 REMOVAL.
   The Manager may be removed, with or without cause, by Council. During a
regularly scheduled meeting the Council, by a motion approved by at least five
members, shall direct the Clerk of Council to place the subject of the
Manager’s removal on the agenda of the next regularly scheduled meeting. At
that meeting, the Manager may be removed by an affirmative vote of at least
five members of Council. The Manager shall be given at least ten days notice
prior to such meeting, that the question of his removal will be on the agenda.
During the intervening period, the Manager may be suspended with or without
pay. The action of the Council in suspending or removing the Manager shall not
be subject to review by any Court or agency.
SECTION 5.03 ACTING MANAGER.
   (A)   The Manager may designate, by letter filed with the Clerk of Council,
any qualified administrative officer of the Municipality to perform his powers,
duties and functions during his temporary absence from the Municipality or
during his disability. Such designation shall not be effective until the
Council has approved it by an affirmative vote of at least four members of
Council, and the Council may revoke such designation by an affirmative vote of
at least four members thereof. If such designation has not been made and the
Manager is absent from the Municipality or unable to perform his duties or to
make such designation, the Council may, by a motion approved by an affirmative
vote of at least four members thereof, appoint any qualified administrative
officer of the Municipality to perform the powers, duties and functions of the
Manager until he shall return to the Municipality, the disability ceases, or
such appointment is revoked by an affirmative vote of at least four members of
Council. The Acting Manager so designated shall exercise all powers, duties,
and functions of the Manager during the temporary absence or disability of the
Manager.
   (B)   In the event of a vacancy in the office of Manager, the Council shall
designate a person as Acting Manager, who shall exercise all powers, duties and
functions of the Manager until a Manager is appointed.
SECTION 5.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE MANAGER.
   The Manager shall be the chief executive and administrative officer of the
Municipality and shall be responsible to the Council for the administration of
all municipal affairs designated by or assigned under this Charter, the
ordinances and resolutions of the Municipality and State laws. The Manager
shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   The Manager shall appoint, supervise, evaluate and, when he/she deems
it necessary, suspend or remove or otherwise discipline all municipal employees
and appointed administrative officers, according to the Personnel Policy of the
Municipality, or as provided for by or under this Charter. The Manager shall
formulate, update or maintain all job descriptions for all municipal employees.
The Manager may authorize any administrative officer who is subject to his/her
direction and supervision to exercise these powers with respect to subordinates
in that officer’s department, office or agency.
   (B)   The Manager shall direct and supervise the administration of all
departments, offices and agencies of the Municipality, except as otherwise
provided by this Charter.
   (C)   The Manager shall attend all Council meetings unless excused by
Council and shall have the right to take part in discussion but may not vote.
   (D)   The Manager shall see that all laws, provisions of this Charter and
ordinances and resolutions of the Council, subject to enforcement by the
Manager or by officers subject to his/her direction and supervision, are
faithfully executed.
   (E)   The Manager shall prepare and submit the annual budget, appropriation
ordinance and capital program to the Council.
      (1)   Capital program submission to Council. The Manager shall prepare
and submit to the Council a five year capital program at least one month prior
to the final date for submission of the budget to the Council.
      (2)   Contents. The capital program shall include the following:
         (a)   A clear, general summary of its contents.
         (b)   A list of all capital improvements which are proposed to be
undertaken during the five fiscal years next ensuing, with appropriate
supporting information as to the necessity for such improvements.
         (c)   The cost estimates, methods of financing and recommended time
schedules for each improvement.
         (d)   The estimated annual cost of operating and maintaining the
facilities to be constructed or acquired.
The above information may be revised by the Manager and extended each year with
regard to capital improvements still pending or in process of construction or
acquisition.
      (3)   Adoption by Council. The Council by resolution, shall adopt the
capital program with or without amendment prior to adoption of the budget.
      (4)   Council shall be responsible for organizing the special
notification of Village residents of a hearing at which Council shall advise
the village residents of the scope and detail of any and all capital projects
in excess of $2,000,000.00. The purchase of real estate is exempted from the
above hearing. The hearing shall be held in a timely manner relative to the
planning of the above capital projects. The purpose of this hearing is to
better inform the Village residents regarding any suggested or planned major
capital projects and to inform Council of the “Opinion of the Village” on the
matter. Council shall be prepared to cover the following in this meeting.
         (a)   General scope and detail of the project.
         (b)   Total estimated cost.
         (c)   Time frame for completion.
         (d)   Funding plans and impact on taxes.
The hearing shall be advertised at four prominent locations around the village
at least forty eight hours prior to the meeting. This short presentation shall
cover points 1-4 above.
   (F)   The Manager shall submit to Council and make available to the public a
complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the
Municipality as of the end of each fiscal year or by March 31.
   (G)   The Manager shall keep the Council fully advised as to the financial
condition and future operating and capital needs of the Municipality and make
such recommendations to the Council concerning the affairs of the Municipality
as he/she or Council deems necessary.
   (H)   The Manager shall make such other reports as the Council may require
concerning the operation of municipal departments, offices, boards, commissions
and agencies subject to his/her direction and supervision.
   (I)   The Manager shall require reports and information of subordinate
officers and employees of the Municipality as seems necessary in the orderly
operation of the Municipality, or when requested to do so by the Council or any
board or commission of the Municipality.
   (J)    The Manager shall be the contracting officer of the Municipality and
shall award and execute contracts and agreements on behalf of the Municipality
in the manner and under the following procedures as required by this Charter:
      (1)   When the expenditure of funds for the purchase of supplies or
materials, or to provide labor for any work to be performed under a contract
exceeds the amount specified by an act of Council for which such purchases or
work may be accomplished without advertisement and competitive bidding, such
expenditure shall first be authorized and directed by ordinance passed by the
Council. The Manager may award a written contract to the lowest and best bidder
after advertisement on the same day of each week for not less than two nor more
than four consecutive weeks in a newspaper determined by the Council to be of
circulation within the Municipality.
      (2)   Compensation of persons and employees; contracts with persons,
firms or corporations for services requiring specialized skill, knowledge, or
training; and expenditures required because of a real and present emergency
arising in connection with the purchase, lease, construction, maintenance,
operation or repair of municipal buildings, equipment and facilities, and
municipal services, when previously authorized, need not be advertised and
notices need not be published as provided herein above.
      (3)   Modifications and changes in excess of the amount as designated by
Council made to contracts shall first be authorized by ordinance.
      (4)   The Manager may designate an administrative officer or employee of
the Municipality to act as purchasing agent to award and execute contracts,
orders, or agreements on behalf of the Municipality, when such contracts,
orders or agreements do not authorize an expenditure of money in excess of the
amount as designated by Council.
      (5)   The Manager or any other person designated by him/her as purchasing
agent shall not willfully cause or allow any contract or order to be split or
divided into separate orders or contracts in order to avoid the requirements
above, or the requirements of competitive bidding as provided by this Charter.
   (K)   The Manager shall execute on behalf of the Municipality all contracts
and agreements, except as otherwise hereinabove provided by paragraph (J) of
this section regarding the designation of a purchasing agent, conveyances
evidences of indebtedness and other instruments to which the Municipality is a
party.
   (L)   The Manager shall hold no elected position within the Municipality,
nor serve as Law Director or Finance Director.
   (M)   The Manager shall perform such other duties and have such other powers
as are conferred or required by this Charter, by any ordinance or resolution of
the Council, or by the laws of the State of Ohio.
(Amendments approved 11-7-2000; Amendments approved 8-7-2017; Amendments
approved 11-7-2023)
ARTICLE VI. ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS
SECTION 6.01 CREATION OF DEPARTMENTS.
   For the purpose of carrying on the administrative functions of the
Municipality, the following departments are hereby established: Department of
Law, Department of Finance, Department of Planning, Department of Service,
Department of Inspection and Engineering, Department of Parks and Recreation,
and Department of Safety. The work of the departments of the Municipality shall
be distributed among such divisions and bureaus as provided in this Charter and
as provided by ordinance. The Council may create new departments, divisions,
and bureaus and combine, change or abolish any departments, divisions, or
bureaus in the manner and subject to the limitations as provided in Section
3.09(F) of this Charter. Subject to the provisions of this Charter, the Council
shall provide by ordinance for the organization of the departments and
divisions of the Municipality, and define the powers and functions of each
organizational unit.
SECTION 6.02 DEPARTMENT OF LAW — LAW DIRECTOR.
   The Law Director shall be the head of the Department of Law. The Law
Director shall be appointed by the Council, by ordinance adopted by the
affirmative vote of at least five members of Council, upon such terms as the
ordinance provides, he/she shall serve at the pleasure of the Council and may
be removed at any time with or without cause by an affirmative vote of at least
five members of Council. The Director of Law shall be licensed and practicing
law in the State of Ohio.
SECTION 6.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE LAW DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Law Director shall be the legal adviser, attorney, and counsel for
the Municipality and for all offices, departments, divisions, bureaus, boards,
commissions and bodies of the Municipality in connection with municipal
affairs; and subject to the direction of the Council, shall represent the
Municipality in all proceedings in Court or before any administrative board or
body. The Law Director shall perform such other duties consistent with this
office, as may be required by this Charter, by ordinance or resolution of the
Council, or by the laws of the State of Ohio. The Law Director shall be the
prosecuting attorney on behalf of the Municipality and shall prosecute cases
brought before courts of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   The Council may provide for such assistants and special counsel to the
Law Director as shall be deemed advisable. All assistants shall be responsible
to the Law Director, and when authorized by him/her, may exercise all or any
part of the powers and duties granted to the Law Director under this section.
Special counsel may be selected by the Council or the Law Director, as
determined by the Council; and such special counsel may perform those powers
and functions as authorized by and in the manner provided by the Council.
SECTION 6.04 DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE — FINANCE DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Finance Director shall be the head of the Department of Finance.
The Finance Director shall be appointed by the Council, by ordinance adopted by
the affirmative vote of at least five members of the Council, upon such terms
as the ordinance provides, he/she shall serve at the pleasure of the Council
and may be removed, at any time with or without cause by an affirmative vote of
at least five members of the Council. The Finance Director shall be qualified
by training and/or experience to discharge the duties as the head of the
Department of Finance in a capable manner.
   (B)   The Council may designate an officer or employee of the Municipality,
who, during the absence or disability of, or during a vacancy in the office of
Finance Director, shall exercise the powers and discharge the duties of Finance
Director under the title of Acting Finance Director.
SECTION 6.05 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE FINANCE DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Finance Director shall be the fiscal officer of the Municipality.
The Finance Director shall advise the Manager and the Council concerning the
financial condition of the Municipality; shall collect all money due and
payable to the Municipality and shall be the custodian of all public money of
the Municipality; shall disburse the same as may be required by law or
ordinance; shall render statements to and receive payments from the customers
of the utilities operated by the Municipality; and shall administer and collect
all taxes levied by the Municipality, except those taxes where the laws of the
State of Ohio require a County or State official to administer and collect the
tax. This section shall not be construed to prevent the Council from entering
into or authorizing contracts with other municipal corporations, the State of
Ohio or its political subdivisions, or private persons, firms or corporations,
for the rendering of statements to and receipt of payments from customers of
utilities operated by the Municipality or for the administration and collection
of taxes. The Finance Director shall assist the Manager in the preparation and
submission of appropriation measures, estimates, budgets and other financial
matters. The Finance Director shall perform all other duties now or hereafter
imposed on municipal auditors and treasurers under the laws of the State of
Ohio and shall perform such other duties, consistent with this office, as may
be required by this Charter, by ordinance or resolution of Council, or as
requested by the Manager.
   (B)   The Finance Director shall prepare annual financial and other reports
required by law and shall make periodic reports concerning appropriations,
encumbrances and expenditures of the departments, divisions, boards and
commissions as may be required by the Council or requested by the Manager, and
make available to the public, a complete report on the finances of the
Municipality as of the end of each fiscal year.
(Amendments approved 11-7-2000)
SECTION 6.06 DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING.
   The Manager shall serve as the head of the Department of Planning. The
Planning Director should meet with and assist the Planning Commission in
conducting studies and surveys; preparing plans, reports, and maps; and other
duties as necessary to help in the growth, development, redevelopment,
rehabilitation, and renewal of the Municipality. The Planning Director should
meet with and assist the Zoning, Building, and Housing Appeals Boards in the
execution of their duties. The Planning Director shall have those additional
powers, duties and functions as provided by the Council by ordinance. In the
event that the Council creates the separate position of Planning Director, the
position will be filled through appointment by the Manager. The Director shall
report and be responsible to the Manager.
SECTION 6.07 DEPARTMENT OF SERVICE.
   The Manager shall serve as the head of the Department of Service. The
Service Director shall have the supervision and control over all municipal
utilities, streets, services, lands and buildings, except as otherwise provided
in this Charter, and shall have those additional powers, duties and functions
as provided by the Council by ordinance. In the event that the Council creates
the separate position of Service Director, the position will be filled through
appointment by the Manager. The Director shall report and be responsible to the
Manager.
SECTION 6.08 DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY.
   The Manager shall serve as the head of the Department of Safety. The Safety
Director shall have the supervision and control over the functions of the
police, the reserve police and auxiliary police and will be responsible to
coordinate with other law enforcement and fire protection agencies as
authorized by Council. The functions of the Department of Safety may be
provided by the creation of separate or combined divisions or by contract with
any other unit of government or with private firms, persons, corporations or
associations, as determined by Council by ordinance. The Safety Director shall
have those additional powers, duties and functions as provided by Council by
ordinance. The Department of Safety may upon authorization of Council, include
fire and law enforcement protection with voluntary or full-time personnel. In
the event that the Council creates the separate position of Safety Director,
the position will be filled through appointment by the Manager. The Safety
Director shall report and be responsible to the Manager.
SECTION 6.09 DEPARTMENT OF INSPECTION AND ENGINEERING.
   The Manager shall serve as the head of the Department of Inspection and
Engineering. The head of the Director of Inspection and Engineering shall have
the supervision and control over all inspection and engineering services of the
Municipality, including but not limited to the following: building code
inspections, housing code inspection, and the administration and enforcement of
all ordinances, rules and regulations pertaining to zoning and the subdivision
of land. The inspection and engineering work may be performed wholly or
partially by employees or agents of the Municipality or by contracts with
persons, firms, or corporations. The Director of Inspection and Engineering
shall meet with and provide assistance and information to the Planning
Commission and Zoning, Housing and Building Appeals Boards. The head of the
Department of Inspection and Engineering shall have those additional powers,
duties and functions as provided by the Council by ordinance. In the event that
the Council creates the separate position of Director of Inspection and
Engineering, the position will be filled through appointment by the Manager.
The Director shall report and be responsible to the Manager.
SECTION 6.10 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   The Manager shall serve as the head of the Department of Parks and
Recreation. The Director of Parks and Recreation shall have the supervision and
control over all municipal parks and recreation lands, equipment, facilities
and programs. The Director of Parks and Recreation shall meet with and provide
such assistance and information to the Parks and Recreation Board as it may
request. The Director of Parks and Recreation shall have those additional
powers, duties and functions as provided by the Council by ordinance. In the
event that the Council creates the separate position of Director of Parks and
Recreation, the position will be filled through appointment by the Manager. The
Director shall report and be responsible to the Manager.
SECTION 6.11 HEADS OF OTHER DEPARTMENTS AND DIVISIONS.
   (A)   The heads of departments, divisions, and bureaus not enumerated in
this Charter, but created by the Council by ordinance shall be appointed by the
Manager and the Manager may serve as head of one or more of such departments or
divisions.
   (B)   One person may serve as the head of one or more departments or
divisions, except that the Law Director and the Finance Director shall not
serve or act as head of any other department or division.
ARTICLE VII. BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
SECTION 7.01 QUALIFICATIONS AND APPOINTMENT OF BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
   (A)   The members of any board or commission of the Municipality shall have
resided in the Municipality for a period of at least one year prior to being
appointed to a board or commission and shall be qualified electors of the
Municipality. Qualifications as a registered voter shall be the same as those
which may be required from time to time by the election laws of the Revised
Code of the State of Ohio.
   (B)   Initial appointments to a board or commission shall be made by Council
by an affirmative vote of at least four members in January following the
expiration of terms of office. The members shall serve without compensation.
(Amendments approved 11-7-2000)
SECTION 7.02 VACANCIES AND FORFEITURE OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Vacancies. The position on a board or commission shall become vacant
upon the member’s death, resignation, removal from office in any manner
authorized by this Charter, or forfeiture of office. A vacancy during the term
of any member of a board or commission created by this Charter or by ordinance
of the Council shall be filled by:
      (1)   Advertising the opening for two weeks requesting anyone interested
in serving on that board or commission to make application to the Council.
      (2)   Applications shall be in writing by anyone interested.
      (3)   The Manager and the Mayor plus two members of Council shall
interview all applicants.
      (4)   Appointment shall be made seven days after the last advertisement
or within forty-five days of the vacancy.
   (B)   Forfeiture of Office. If it is so determined by an affirmative vote of
at least four members of the board or commission a member shall forfeit that
position if said board or commission member:
      (1)   Lacks at any time during his term of office, any qualification for
the office prescribed by this Charter;
      (2)   Intentionally violates any express prohibition of this Charter;
      (3)   Is convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude or malfeasance or
a felony;
      (4)   Fails to attend regular meetings as established by the board or
commission’s attendance policy. Each board or commission shall establish and
have approved by the Manager its own attendance policy. This policy will be
reviewed by each board or commission at the first meeting held each year.
   (C)   Disability. On questions of disability involving the members of the
boards or commissions, the decision as to actuality of the time of, and
duration of the disability, for purpose of declaring a vacancy, shall be
determined by an affirmative vote of at least four members of the board or
commission.
SECTION 7.03 PLANNING COMMISSION — MEMBERSHIP.
   There shall be a Planning Commission consisting of seven members appointed
by Council: two of whom shall be members of Council appointed for a term of one
year, and five citizen members who shall serve four year overlapping terms of
office. The five citizen members of the Planning Commission shall hold no other
municipal office or board membership.
(Amendments approved 11-7-2000)
SECTION 7.04 PLANNING COMMISSION — POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Planning Commission shall conduct studies and surveys and prepare plans,
reports and maps relative to the overall planning of the growth, development,
redevelopment, rehabilitation, and the renewal of the Municipality, and may
make such recommendations relative thereto to the Council as it feels are in
the best interests of the Municipality. The Planning Commission shall
continuously review and report to the Council its recommendations concerning
the Municipality’s capital improvement programs, subdivisions, platting and
zoning ordinances and regulations. The Planning Commission shall cooperate with
other governments or private planning agencies to secure the maximum benefit to
the Municipality. Other powers and duties of the Planning Commission shall
include those established by this Charter and by the Council by ordinance or
resolution but until such ordinances or resolutions are passed, it shall
possess such other powers and duties as are provided by the general laws of
Ohio, to the extent that such general laws do not conflict with the provisions
of this Charter.
SECTION 7.05 BOARD OF APPEALS — MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   There shall be a Board of Appeals consisting of seven citizen members
appointed by Council to serve four year overlapping terms of office.
   (B)   Members of the Board of Appeals may not hold any other municipal
office.
(Amendments approved 11-7-2000)
SECTION 7.06 BOARD OF APPEALS — POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board shall have the power to hear and decide appeals from actions
taken by the Municipality’s administrative offices and employees with respect
to the Municipality’s building and zoning and property maintenance regulations.
The Board may not approve exceptions to and variations from the Municipality’s
building and zoning codes and regulation in individual cases except as may be
required to afford justice and avoid unreasonable hardships to property owners.
The standards to be applied by the Board in all instances shall be established
by ordinance or resolution of the Council.
   (B)   The Board of Appeals shall establish its own rules of procedure and
keep a record of its proceedings in all matters coming before the Board. No
motion or other action overruling an action under the Zoning Ordinance by any
administrative officer of the Municipality shall be adopted except by an
affirmative vote of at least five members of the Board.
(Amendments approved 11-7-2000)
SECTION 7.07 PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD — MEMBERSHIP.
    There shall be a Board of Parks and Recreation consisting of five members,
three of whom are appointed by Council, two of whom shall be members of Council
appointed for a term of one year.
(Amendments approved 11-7-2000; Amendments approved 11-5-2019; Amendments
approved 11-7-2023)
SECTION 7.08 PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD — POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Parks and Recreation Board shall act in an advisory capacity only. The
Board shall make such recommendations and reports to the Manager, Council,
Planning Commission, Director of Parks and Recreation, and other officers,
departments, divisions, and boards and commissions as it deems advisable
regarding the acquisition, development, maintenance and operation of parks,
playgrounds and recreational facilities and programs of the Municipality. The
Board may cooperate with organized groups concerned with park and recreation
programs and may stimulate citizen interest in the care and preservation of
parks and historical and scenic sites.
(Amendments approved 11-7-2000)
SECTION 7.09 HISTORICAL PRESERVATION BOARD — MEMBERSHIP.
   The Historical Preservation Board shall consist of five members appointed by
the Council. These appointees shall include one member of the Planning
Commission, one member of Council, and two residents or property owners from
within the district, and one member of the Waynesville Historical Society (if
the Historical Society goes out of existence, then three residents).
(Amendments approved 11-7-2000; Amendments approved 11-5-2019)
SECTION 7.10 HISTORICAL PRESERVATION BOARD — POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Historical Preservation Board shall provide the formal process to
approve or disapprove, within the Historic Preservation District, the external
design of proposed new buildings or structures, or of such proposed changes in
existing buildings or structures as would substantially alter their appearance,
by enforcing the “Waynesville Historical Preservation Board Rules and
Regulations” and the municipal ordinances which apply to the “Historic
Preservation District.” The Board shall meet twice each month before regularly
scheduled Council meetings to consider applications for Certificates of
Appropriateness submitted by property or business owners.
(Amendments approved 11-7-2000)
SECTION 7.11 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.
   Council, by an affirmative vote of at least five members, may remove any
member of a board or commission for cause so stated in written or printed form
by Council. Council’s action shall be final.
(Amendments approved 11-7-2000)
SECTION 7.12 OTHER BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
   The Council may create, change, and abolish other boards and commissions as
it determines to be necessary, and may provide for their organization,
membership, method of appointment, terms of office of members, and powers,
duties and functions by ordinance or resolution.
(Amendments approved 11-7-2000)
SECTION 7.13 ORGANIZATION AND MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS.
   (A)   In January of each year or within thirty days after formation, each
board or commission of the Municipality as created by this Charter or by
ordinance of Council, shall meet for the purpose of organization and shall
elect officers from among its membership.
   (B)   The secretary of each such board or commission may or may not be a
member of such board or commission and may hold another office or employment
with the Municipality. The secretary of each board or commission shall keep an
accurate record of the proceedings of such board or commission meeting on
standardized forms provided by the Clerk of Council. The record of each board
or commission meeting shall be filed with the Clerk of Council within ten days
after the meeting. All official records of the proceedings of the boards and
commissions of the Municipality shall be maintained by the Clerk of Council in
a standardized manner.
(Amendments approved 11-7-2000)
SECTION 7.14 APPEALS. 
   All administrative appeals from the decision of any board and commission
established by Article VII of the Charter of the Village of Waynesville shall
be appealed to Village of Waynesville Council.
(Amendments approved - -2005; Amendments approved 8-7-2017)
ARTICLE VIII. NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS
SECTION 8.01 NOMINATIONS.
   (A)   Nominations for members of Council shall be made only by petition
signed by at least twenty-five qualified electors of the Municipality. Such a
petition shall be accompanied by a declaration of candidacy and shall be filed
with the election authorities no later than 4:00 pm of the ninetieth day before
the date of the regular Municipal election.
   (B)   If the nominating petition or declaration of candidacy is found by the
election authorities to contain any defect that would prevent the candidate’s
name from being placed on the ballot, the election authorities shall
immediately notify the candidate who shall then have ten days to correct any
such defect.
   (C)   Write-in candidates shall be subject to the requirements of the Warren
County Board of Elections and the State of Ohio.
   (D)   No primary election shall be held for Council candidates.
(Amendments approved 11-7-2023)
SECTION 8.02 REGULAR MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
   The regular municipal election for members of Council shall be held on the
first Tuesday after the first Monday in November in the odd numbered years in
which they are to be elected, commencing in the year 1995. All petitions,
ballots and ballot labels shall be without party mark or designation. Except as
otherwise provided in this Charter, all elections shall be held and conducted
and the results thereof ascertained and certified as provided by the laws of
the State of Ohio.
SECTION 8.03 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   The Council may, at any time, by ordinance or resolution, order a special
election, the purpose of which shall be set forth in the ordinance or
resolution.
SECTION 8.04 CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS.
   All regular and special municipal elections shall be conducted by the Warren
County Board of Elections under the provisions of this Charter, so far as they
are applicable. Where the Charter is silent, the provisions of the Ohio
Election Laws shall be followed.
ARTICLE IX. INITIATIVE, REFERENDUM, REFERRAL AND RECALL
SECTION 9.01 INITIATIVE.
   Ordinances and resolutions may be proposed by initiative petition and
adopted by election in the manner now or hereafter provided by the Constitution
or the laws of the State of Ohio except that the initiative petitions shall be
filed with the Clerk of Council, and except that the proposed ordinance or
resolution shall be submitted to the electors for approval or rejection at the
next succeeding general or primary election occurring subsequent to ninety days
after the certification of the proposed ordinance or resolution to the Board of
Elections, or at a special election to be held on a date fixed by the Council
by an affirmative vote of at least four members thereof and certified by the
Clerk of Council to the Board of Elections.
SECTION 9.02 REFERENDUM.
   Ordinances and resolutions adopted by Council shall be subject to referendum
to the extent and in the manner now or hereafter provided by the Constitution
or the laws of the State of Ohio, except that such ordinances and resolutions
subjected to referendum shall be submitted to the electors for approval or
rejection at the next succeeding general election or primary election occurring
subsequent to ninety days after the certifying of such referendum petition to
the Board of Elections or a special election to be held on a date fixed by the
Council by an affirmative vote of at least four members thereof and certified
by the Clerk of Council to the Board of Elections, and except that referendum
petitions shall be filed with the Clerk of Council.
SECTION 9.03 REFERRAL OF ORDINANCE OR RESOLUTION TO THE ELECTORS BY COUNCIL.
   (A)   By an affirmative vote of at least five members of Council, any
pending ordinance or resolution may be referred to the electors of the
Municipality at a general, primary or special election. The action of referral
provided for in this section shall be taken by motion and shall go into
immediate effect without publication. Such motion shall be passed not less than
ninety days prior to the date of the primary or general election at which such
referred ordinance or resolution is to be submitted. In the event that such
ordinance or resolution is to be referred for approval or rejection at a
special election, the Council shall, by motion, fix a date for such special
election at a date not less than ninety days after the date of the passage of
the motion to refer, and the Clerk of Council shall cause notice of the special
election to be published on the same day of each week for two consecutive weeks
in a newspaper determined by Council to be of circulation in the Municipality.
   (B)   The Clerk of Council shall certify to the Warren County Board of
Elections that an election is to be held referring such ordinance or resolution
to a vote of the electors at the date fixed by Council as hereinbefore
provided. The Clerk of Council shall also certify a copy of the ordinance or
resolution to be voted upon to the Warren County Board of Elections.
   (C)   At such primary, general or special election this question shall be
placed upon the ballot: “Shall an (ordinance or resolution) providing: (the
wording contained in the title of the proposed ordinance or resolution shall be
inserted here) be adopted?” with the provision on the ballot for voting
affirmatively or negatively. In the event a majority of those voting on the
issue shall be in the affirmative the ordinance or resolution shall go into
immediate effect, without need for further publication.
SECTION 9.04 RECALL.
   The electors shall have the power to remove from office, by a recall
election, any elected or appointed member of Council of the Municipality in the
manner herein provided. If such officer shall have served six months of his
term, a petition demanding his removal may be filed with the Clerk of Council,
who shall note thereon the name and address of the person filing the petition
and the date of such filing, and deliver to such person a receipt therefore and
attach a copy thereof to said petition. Such petition may be circulated in
separate parts, but the separate parts shall be bound together and filed as one
instrument. Each part shall contain the name and office of the person whose
removal is sought and a statement not to exceed two hundred words of the
grounds for the removal. Such petition shall be signed by at least that number
of electors from the Municipality which equals twenty-five (25%) percent in
number of the electors voting at the last preceding regular municipal election
for Council members within the Municipality. Within twenty days after the day
on which such petition shall have been filed, the Clerk shall determine whether
or not it meets the requirements hereof. If the Clerk shall find the petition
insufficient, he/she shall promptly certify the particulars in which the
petition is defective, deliver a copy of this certificate to the person who
filed the petition, and make a record of such delivery. Such person shall be
allowed a period of ten days after the day on which each delivery was made in
which to make the petition sufficient. If the petition is sufficient or is
subsequently made sufficient within such ten day period, the Clerk shall
promptly so certify it to Council, shall deliver a copy of such certificate to
the officer whose removal is sought, and shall make a record of such delivery.
If such officer shall not resign within five days after the day on which such
delivery shall have been made, Council shall, at the next regularly scheduled
Council meeting, fix a day for holding a recall election, not less that sixty
days not more than seventy-five days after the date of such delivery, and shall
cause notice of such recall election to be published on the same day of each
week for two consecutive weeks in a newspaper determined by Council to be of
general circulation in the Municipality. At such recall election, this question
shall be placed on the ballot: “Shall (naming the officer) be allowed to
continue as (naming the office)?”, with the provision on the ballot for voting
affirmatively or negatively. In the event a majority of the vote is negative,
such officer shall be considered as removed, his office shall be deemed vacant,
and such vacancy shall be filled as provided in this Charter. The officer
removed at such recall election shall not be eligible for appointment to the
vacancy created or elected to a similar position for one year from the date of
removal. If the officer is not removed at such recall election, no further
recall petitions shall be filed against him for a period of one year.
ARTICLE X. FINANCES, TAXATION AND DEBT
SECTION 10.01 GENERAL.
   The laws of the State of Ohio relating generally to budgets, appropriations,
debts, bonds, assessments and other fiscal matters of the Municipality shall be
applicable to the Municipality, except as modified by or necessarily
inconsistent with the provision of this Charter or ordinances of Council
enacted pursuant thereto and except when provision therefore is made in the
Constitution of the State of Ohio.
SECTION 10.02 LIMITATION ON TAX RATE.
   The power of Council to levy taxes shall be subject to the limitations now
or hereafter provided by the Constitution and the general laws of the State of
Ohio and nothing contained in this Charter shall be construed as authorizing
the levy of any taxes in excess of such limitations without a vote of the
people; provided, that this Charter shall not operate as a limitation upon the
power of the Council to levy taxes upon such other subjects and for such other
purposed as may be lawful under the Constitution or laws of the State of Ohio
nor shall the authority of Council to submit additional levies to a vote of the
people under the authority of the Constitution or laws of the State of Ohio be
deemed impaired or abridged by reason of any provision of this Charter.
SECTION 10.03 LIMITATION OF DEBT.
   The Municipality shall not incur debt in excess of the limitations imposed
by the Constitution and the laws of the State of Ohio.
ARTICLE XI. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 11.01 SUCCESSION.
   The Municipality of Waynesville, under this Charter, is hereby declared to
be the legal successor of the Village of Waynesville, under the laws of the
State of Ohio, and as such it has title to all property, real and personal,
owned by its predecessor, including all monies on deposit and all taxes in
process of collection together with all accounts receivable and rights of
action. The Municipality is liable for all outstanding orders, contracts and
debts of its predecessor, and for any other obligations for which it may be
held liable, as such successor, by any court of competent jurisdiction. All
contracts entered into by the Municipality or for its benefit prior to July 1,
1994 shall continue in full force and effect.
SECTION 11.02 EFFECT OF CHARTER ON EXISTING LAWS AND RIGHTS.
   (A)   The adoption of the Charter shall not affect any pre-existing rights
of the Municipality, nor any right or liability or pending suit or prosecution
either on behalf of or against the Municipality or any officer thereof, nor any
franchise granted by the Municipality, nor pending proceedings for the
authorization of public improvements or the levy of assessments therefor.
Except as a contrary intent appears herein, all acts of the Council of the
Municipality, including ordinances and resolutions in effect at the date this
Charter becomes effective, shall continue in effect until lawfully amended or
repealed.
   (B)   No action or proceeding pending against the Municipality or an officer
thereof shall be abated or affected by the adoption of this Charter, but all
such actions or proceedings shall be prosecuted or defended under the laws in
effect at the time of the filing thereof.
SECTION 11.03 AMENDMENTS TO CHARTER — PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Charter may be amended as provided by the Constitution of Ohio by
the submission of the proposed amendments to the electors of the Municipality.
   (B)   If any such amendment is approved by a majority of the electors voting
thereon, it shall become a part of this Charter, except that if two or more
inconsistent proposed amendments on the same subject shall be submitted at the
same election, only the one of such amendments receiving the highest number of
affirmative votes, not less than a majority, shall become a part of this
Charter.
SECTION 11.04 CHARTER REVIEW COMMISSION.
   In January, 2017 and thereafter at least every five years, the Council shall
appoint a committee of five qualified electors of the Municipality to be known
as the Charter Review Commission. This commission shall review the whole
Charter and shall recommend to the Council any alterations, revisions, and
amendments to this Charter as in the Charter Review Commission’s judgment seem
advisable. The Council shall submit to the electors all such proposed
alterations, revisions, or amendments to this Charter at the next regular
election in accordance with the Constitution of the State of Ohio. The Council
may by an affirmative vote of at least six members refuse to put on the ballot
any or all of the recommendations from the Charter Review Commission. Each
Charter Review Commission shall cease to function the day following the
election at which its proposals are submitted to the electorate. The members
shall serve without compensation. In addition, the Council may appoint
additional such commissions for the limited purpose of reviewing specified
portions of the Charter.
(Amendments approved - -2016)
SECTION 11.05 EFFECT OF PARTIAL INVALIDITY.
   A determination that any article, section or part of any article or section,
of this Charter is invalid shall not invalidate or impair the force or effect
of any other part thereof, except to the extent that such other part is wholly
dependent for its operation upon the part declared invalid.
SECTION 11.06 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   The laws of the State of Ohio relating to conflicts of interest and
interests in contracts or expenditures on behalf of the Municipality by
officials and employees of municipalities shall be applicable to officers and
employees of the Municipality of Waynesville under this Charter.
SECTION 11.07 UTILITIES.
   (A)   All operating and capital expenditures for utility services provided
by the Municipality must be fully supported by user fees and public grants or
loans (i.e. not subsidized in whole or in part by municipal tax revenues).
   (B)   For the good of the general public, Council may authorize water and/or
sewer services to be provided to any public park, within the municipal limits,
at a rate of not less than 50% of the public rate applicable at that time. The
provision of such services is contingent upon the following conditions:
      (1)   Operation of the public park must be by a not-for-profit
corporation.
      (2)   Services to the park must be metered.
      (3)   Council’s authorization must be by ordinance, passed by an
affirmative vote of six or more members of Council.
      (4)   The provision of such services is limited to twelve months from the
date of passage of the authorizing ordinance, which can be revised or renewed
annually (in January) by an affirmative vote of six or more members of Council.
GLOSSARY
   abate, abated v. - 1. To reduce in amount, degree, or intensity; lessen. 2.
To deduct from an amount; subtract. 3. Law. a. To put an end to. b. To make
void.
   administrative officer a. - An employee or appointee working for the Village
Manager and designated as having authority within a department. (5.04(J)(4))
   appropriated v. - To set apart for a specific use: appropriating funds for
education. (4.04)
   appropriation a. - Public funds set aside for a specific purpose. A
legislative act authorizing the expenditure of a designated amount of public
funds for a specific purpose.
   auxiliary police unit a. - A civilian affiliated with the law enforcement
agency in a part-time non-sworn capacity with or without compensation. (6.08)
   Board of Elections a. - The Warren County Board of Elections. (8.04)
   book form adj. - The collection of documents, such as ordinances, in a
complete, organized volume or volumes suitable for printing. (4.15(B))
   charter a. - 1. A document issued by a sovereign, legislature, or other
authority, creating a public or private corporation, as a city, college, or
bank, and defining its privileges and purposes. A document outlining the
principles, functions, and organization of a corporate body; constitution.
(Preamble)
   codify tr.v. - fied fying fies 1. To reduce to a code: codify laws. 2. To
arrange or systematize. codification n. codifier n. (4.11)
   conveyance a. - 1. The transfer of title to property from one person to
another. 2. The document by which this transfer is effected. (5.04(K))
   Council a. - A body of people elected or appointed to serve in an
administrative, legislative, or advisory capacity. (3.01)
   current service a. - A business or group of people responsible for
accomplishing designated tasks for the Village. (4.15(D))
   electorate a. - A body of qualified voters. (4.08)
   employee of the municipality a. - A person employed by the Village in a
part- or full-time position on a continuing basis. (12.03)
   evidences of indebtedness a. - Purchase orders, contacts for services, and
other financial obligations. (5.04(K))
   exigency a. - A pressing or urgent situation. (4.07)
   felony a. - Any of several crimes, such as murder, rape, or burglary,
considered more serious than a misdemeanor and punishable by a more stringent
sentence. (3.04(B)(3))
   fiscal year a. - A 12-month period for which an organization plans the use
of its funds. The Village’s fiscal year begins on January 1. (5.04(F))
   franchise a. - 1. A privilege or right officially granted a person or a
group by a government, esp.: a. The constitutional or statutory right to vote.
b. The establishment of a corporation’s existence. c. The grant of certain
rights and powers to a corporation. d. Formerly, legal immunity from certain
burdens, servitude, or other restrictions. 2. The territory or limits within
which a privilege, right, or immunity may be exercised. tr.v. chised chising
chises To endow with a franchise. (4.01)
   hardships n. - Special circumstances, usually in regards to zoning
requirements, applicable to land or buildings, and which are peculiar to a
specific land or building and not to the surrounding land or building in
general. Strict enforcement of rules in the face of a hardship would prohibit
reasonable use of the land or building. Hardships cannot be self-created,
cannot be that less financial profit would be obtained because of, and cannot
be established on the basis of self creation by one who purchases but has no
knowledge of the restrictions. (7.04)
   home rule a. - The principle or practice of self-government in the internal
affairs of a dependent country or other political unit. (Preamble)
   initiative a. - 1. The power or right to introduce a new legislative
measure. 2. The right and procedure by which citizens can propose a law by
petition and ensure its submission to the electorate. (9.01)
   instruments a. - legal documents such as contracts, purchase orders, checks,
etc. (5.04(K))
   judicial powers a. - Authority granted to judges and courts in the state of
Ohio. (3.01)
   legal successor a. - The corporation immediately created upon the
dissolution of a preceding corporation and which becomes responsible for the
legal obligations of the predecessor. (11.01)
   magistrate n. - 1. A civil officer with power to administer and enforce law.
2. A minor official with limited judicial authority, such as a justice of the
peace or the judge of a police court. (3.12(B))
   malfeasance a. - Misconduct or wrongdoing, esp. by a public official. (3.04
(B)(3))
   mayor a. - The chief magistrate or administrator of the municipality with
limited judicial authority. (3.01)
   municipal adj. - 1. Of, pertaining to, or typical of a municipality. 2.
Having local self government. (1.01)
   municipal office n. - All elected positions and any paid position that is
filled by Council. (3.03(A), (B))
   municipality a. - 1. A political unit, such as a city or town, incorporated
for local self-government. 2. A body of officials appointed to manage the
affairs of a municipality. (Preamble)
   ordinance a. - A statute or regulation, esp. one enacted by a city
government. (2.02)
   platting v. - Dividing a section of land into lots for development of
housing or commercial buildings. (7.02)
   politic adj. - 1. Artful; shrewd: a politic senator. 2. Using, displaying,
or proceeding from policy; judicious: a politic decision. (1.01)
   President pro tempore a. - A temporary “president.” The Village shall have a
president pro tempore who shall act as Mayor during the temporary absence of
the Mayor. (3.01)
   promulgate v. - 1. To make known (a decree, for example) by public
declaration; announce officially. 2. To put (a law) into effect by formal
public announcement.
   public body a. - Council or any Municipal Board or Commission.
   public welfare a. - The safety and health of the populace of the Village.
(4.07)
   qualified electors a. - Residents of the Village who are legitimately
registered with the Warren County Board of Elections as being able to
participate in local, state, and federal elections. (7.01)
   quorum a. - The minimum number of officers and members of a committee or
organization, usually a majority, who must be present for the valid transaction
of business. (3.06)
   real property a. - Land or buildings. (3.08(K))
   referendum n. - 1. The submission of a proposed public measure or actual
statute to a direct popular vote. 2. Such a vote. (9.02)
   referral v. - The action of letting an ordinance or resolution of Council be
decided by the qualified electorate of the Village rather than a vote of the
Council members. (9.03)
   reserve police a. - A part-time sworn law enforcement officer with or
without compensation, who may possess the same powers and perform the same
duties as full-time officers. Reserve officers have qualifications and training
equivalent to full-time, sworn officers performing like functions and are
utilized to supplement the agency’s day-to-day delivery of law enforcement
services.
   residency, reside, resident n. - Maintaining a dwelling and a domicile
within the municipal boundaries. A person may have more than one residence but
only one domicile. (3.01(A)) (3.03) (7.01(A)) (7.11)
   resolution a. - A formal statement of a decision or expression of opinion
put before or adopted by Council. (2.02)
   Sunshine Law a. - The public meeting laws of Ohio that require that all
public business be conducted in open, public meetings unless it is explicitly
announced that an “executive session” is to be held. Only a limited list of
specific topics can be discussed by a public body in executive session (3.07)
   turpitude a. - 1. Baseness; depravity. 2. A base act. (3.04(B)(3))
   vacancy in office - A position or office that is unfilled or unoccupied.
(5.03)
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.05   Construction of section references
   
10.06   Conflicting provisions
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Ordinances saved
   
10.13   Application to future ordinances
   
10.14   Interpretation
   
10.15   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.16   Statutory references
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
   
10.18   Determination of legislative intent
 
   
10.99   General penalty
Cross-reference:
   Ordinances and resolutions, see §§
32.040 et seq.
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the municipality,
as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Waynesville Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances”, or “code” may be substituted. Title, chapter, and section headings
do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
(R.C. § 1.01)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AND/OR. The word “and” may be read as “or”, and the word “or” may be read as
“and”, if the sense requires it.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOND. Includes an undertaking.
   CERTIFIED MAIL. Includes registered mail.
   CHILD. Includes child by adoption.
   COUNCIL. The legislative authority of the municipality.
   COUNTY. The county in which the municipality is located, being Warren
County, Ohio.
   FIRE CHIEF. Shall include the Chief of the Fire Department if a Fire
Department has been established in the municipality, and shall include the Fire
Prevention Officer if no Fire Department has been established in the
municipality.
   IMPRISONED. Shall have the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.05.
   INTERNET. The international computer network of both federal and non-federal
interoperable packet switched data networks, including the graphical subnetwork
known as the World Wide Web.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of incorporeal nature.
   LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY. The legislative authority of the municipality.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   MUNICIPALITY, CITY, TOWN, VILLAGE, or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. When used in
this code, shall denote the municipality or Waynesville, Ohio, irrespective of
its population or legal classification.
   O.A.C. Refers to the Ohio Administrative Code.
   OATH. Includes affirmation.
   OF UNSOUND MIND. The person lacks the relevant mental capacity.
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner, or
tenant in common of the whole or part of that property.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership, and association.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real property.
   PLAN OF SEWERAGE, SYSTEM OF SEWERAGE, SEWER, and SEWERS. Includes sewers,
sewage disposal works and treatment plants, and sewage pumping stations,
together with facilities and appurtenances necessary and proper therefor.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   R.C. Refers to the Ohio Revised Code.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Ohio.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the municipality.
   SWEAR. Includes affirm.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   UNDERTAKING. Includes a bond.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents, and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITING. Includes printing.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. The terms include any representation of words,
letters, symbols, or figures; this provision does not affect any law relating
to signatures.
   YEAR. Twelve consecutive months.
(R.C. §§ 1.02, 1.05, 1.44, 1.59, 701.01)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Common and technical usage. Words and phrases shall be read in context
and construed according to the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and
phrases that have acquired a technical or particular meaning, whether by
legislative definition or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
(R.C. § 1.42)
   (B)   Singular and plural; gender; tenses. As used in this code, unless the
context otherwise requires:
      (1)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular;
      (2)   Words of one gender include the other genders; and
      (3)   Words in the present tense include the future tense.
(R.C. § 1.43)
   (C)   Calendar; computation of time.
      (1)   The time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; except that when
the last day falls on Sunday or a legal holiday, then the act may be done on
the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal holiday.
      (2)   When a public office, in which an act required by law is to be
performed, is closed to the public for the entire day that constitutes the last
day for doing the act or before its usual closing time on that day, the act may
be performed on the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal
holiday.
      (3)   As used in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) of this section, LEGAL
HOLIDAY means the following days:
         (a)   The first day of January, known as New Year’s Day;
         (b)   The third Monday in January, known as Martin Luther King, Jr.
Day;
         (c)   The third Monday in February, known as Washington-Lincoln Day;
         (d)   The day designated in the “Act of June 28, 1968”, 82 Stat. 250,
5 U.S.C. § 6103, as amended, for the commemoration of Memorial Day;
         (e)   The nineteenth day of June, known as Juneteenth day;
         (f)   The fourth day of July, known as Independence Day;
         (g)   The first Monday in September, known as Labor Day;
         (h)   The second Monday in October, known as Columbus Day;
         (i)   The eleventh day of November, known as Veteran’s Day;
         (j)   The fourth Thursday in November, known as Thanksgiving Day;
         (k)   The twenty-fifth day of December, known as Christmas Day; and
         (l)   Any day appointed and recommended by the Governor of this state
or the President of the United States as a holiday.
      (4)   If any day designated in this section as a legal holiday falls on a
Sunday, the next succeeding day is a legal holiday.
(R.C. § 1.14)
      (5)   When an act is to take effect or become operative from and after a
day named, no part of that day shall be included. If priority of legal rights
depends upon the order of events on the same day, the priority shall be
determined by the times in the day at which they respectively occurred.
(R.C. § 1.15)
      (6)   If a number of months is to be computed by counting the months from
a particular day, the period ends on the same numerical day in the concluding
month as the day of the month from which the computation is begun, unless there
are not that many days in the concluding month, in which case the period ends
on the last day of that month.
(R.C. § 1.45)
      (7)   In all cases where the law shall require any act to be done in a
reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or notice
shall mean such time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the
duty or compliance with the notice.
   (D)   Numbers. If there is a conflict between figures and words in
expressing a number, the words govern.
(R.C. § 1.46)
   (E)   Authority. When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as
well be done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be
construed to include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (F)   Joint authority. All words purporting to give joint authority to three
or more municipal officers or other persons shall be construed as giving that
authority to a majority of the officers or other persons, unless it shall be
otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority, or it is
inconsistent with state law or municipal charter provisions.
   (G)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
contains any express provision excluding the construction, or when the subject
matter or context of the law is repugnant thereto.
§ 10.04 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing statute does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
(R.C. § 1.57)
   (B)   The re-enactment, amendment, or repeal of an ordinance does not,
except as provided in division (C) of this section:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation, or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded, or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding, or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment; and the
investigation, proceeding, or remedy may be instituted, continued, or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for any offense is reduced
by a re-enactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
(R.C. § 1.58)
   (D)   An ordinance which is re-enacted or amended is intended to be a
continuation of the prior ordinance and not a new enactment, so far as it is
the same as the prior ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.54)
§ 10.05 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, or of divisions or subdivisions of a
section, the reference shall be construed to mean a violation of any provision
of the section, sections, divisions, or subdivisions included in the reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
(R.C. § 1.23)
   (C)   A reference to any portion of a provision of this code applies to all
re-enactments or amendments thereof.
(R.C. § 1.55)
   (D)   If a section refers to a series of numbers or letters, the first and
the last numbers or letters are included.
(R.C. § 1.56)
   (E)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter has been
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.06 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If a general provision conflicts with a special or local provision,
they shall be construed, if possible, so that effect is given to both. If the
conflict between the provisions is irreconcilable, the special or local
provision prevails as an exception to the general provision, unless the general
provision is the later adoption and the manifest intent is that the general
provision prevail.
(R.C. § 1.51)
   (B)   (1)   If ordinances enacted at different meetings of the legislative
authority are irreconcilable, the ordinance latest in date of enactment
prevails.
      (2)   If amendments to the same ordinance are enacted at different
meetings of the legislative authority, one amendment without reference to
another, the amendments are to be harmonized, if possible, so that effect may
be given to each. If the amendments are substantively irreconcilable, the
latest in date of enactment prevails. The fact that a later amendment restates
language deleted by an earlier amendment, or fails to include language inserted
by an earlier amendment, does not of itself make the amendments irreconcilable.
Amendments are irreconcilable only when changes made by each cannot reasonably
be put into simultaneous operation.
(R.C. § 1.52)
   (C)   In the event of a conflict between any of the provisions of this code,
or between any of the provisions of this code and any standard code adopted by
the municipality pursuant to R.C. § 731.231, the provision that establishes the
higher or stricter standard shall control.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of this code or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions or applications of the section or related sections which can
be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end
the provisions are severable.
(R.C. § 1.50)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the municipality exercising the powers, duties,
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any words necessary to express the intention of the
provisions affected, the use of words to which no meaning can be attached, or
the use of a word when another word was clearly intended to express the
intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and the words supplied, omitted, or
substituted shall conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall
have the same effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as
originally published. No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question
exists regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   With the exception of any ordinances specifically saved by the municipality,
this code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
and all ordinances specifically saved by the municipality shall remain in full
force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
legislative body, or a certain municipal officer or employee, to make
additional ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the
intention of the ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature
serving the purpose, effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent
thereto, shall remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.13 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.14 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.15 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this code may be numbered in
accordance with the numbering system of this code and need not be inserted in
this code, but shall be treated as if printed for inclusion herein.
   (B)   In addition to the language required by Charter §
4.03, the following language may be used by the municipality to amend, add, or
repeal a chapter, section, or division:
      (1)   To amend a section: “Section                 of the Waynesville
Code of Ordinances is amended to read as follows: ....”
      (2)   To add a section: “Section                 of the Waynesville Code
of Ordinances, which is to be added to and amends the Municipal Code of
Ordinances, reads as follows: ....”
      (3)   To repeal a section: “Section                 of the Waynesville
Code of Ordinances, which reads as follows, is repealed: ....”
§ 10.16 STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, located in parentheses
immediately following a division or section of this code, this indicates that
the text of the division or section is substantially equivalent to the
statutory provision.
  Example: (R.C. § 4511.02)
   (B)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following
the text of a section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information.
  Example:
   § 30.08 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      Unless otherwise exempted by state law, all public records shall be
promptly prepared and made available for inspection to any person.
   Statutory reference:
      Public records, see R.C. § 149.43
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment, or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.18 DETERMINATION OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   (A)   In enacting an ordinance, it is presumed that:
      (1)   Compliance with the constitutions of the State and of the United
States is intended;
      (2)   The entire ordinance is intended to be effective;
      (3)   A just and reasonable result is intended; and
      (4)   A result feasible of execution is intended.
(R.C. § 1.47)
   (B)   An ordinance is presumed to be prospective in its operation unless
expressly made retrospective.
(R.C. § 1.48)
   (C)   If an ordinance is ambiguous, the court, in determining the intention
of the legislative authority, may consider among other matters:
      (1)   The object sought to be attained;
      (2)   The circumstances under which the ordinance was enacted;
      (3)   The legislative history;
      (4)   The common law or former legislative provisions, including laws
upon the same or similar subjects;
      (5)   The consequences of a particular construction; and
      (6)   The administrative construction of the ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.49)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever, in this municipal code or in any ordinance of the
municipality, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an
offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the
failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is
otherwise provided, whoever violates any such provision shall be punished by a
fine not exceeding $500, a term of imprisonment not exceeding six months, or
both. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which
a violation continues or occurs.
   (B)   The failure of any officer or employee of the municipality to perform
any official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or
employee to the penalty imposed for a violation unless a penalty is
specifically provided for the failure.
(Rev. 1998)
Cross-reference:
   Misdemeanor classifications, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Ordinance violations and penalties, see R.C. § 715.67
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY
      
32.   LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY
      
33.   JUDICIAL AUTHORITY
      
34.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
35.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
36.   TAXATION; FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
37.   VILLAGE POLICIES
      
38.   VILLAGE INCOME TAX
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Application of Title III
   
30.02   Qualifications; oaths
   
30.03   Bonds of officers and employees; amount
   
30.04   Additional bond; where bonds recorded and kept
   
30.05   Approval of bonds
   
30.06   Sufficiency of form of bond
   
30.07   Filling vacancies in offices
   
30.08   Public records available
   
30.09   Records Commission
   
30.10   Meetings of public bodies to be open; exceptions; notice
   
30.11   Municipal officers may attend conference or convention; expenses
   
30.12   Residency requirements prohibited; exceptions
Statutory reference:
   Village accounting and financial reporting, State Auditor regulations, see
O.A.C. Chapter 117-9
§ 30.01 APPLICATION OF TITLE III.
   Title III of this code of ordinances is designed to include and incorporate,
insofar as is practical, all legislation concerning the organization,
qualifications, appointment or election, terms of office, compensation, and the
powers and duties of the officials, boards, and bodies of the village.
Pertinent sections of the Ohio Revised Code relative to these village offices
and boards have been assembled and adopted as a part of this Title III. No
material changes of the Ohio Revised Code sections referred to in the
legislative histories have been made. The purpose of including these sections
is to afford easy reference to the statutory provisions.
§ 30.02 QUALIFICATIONS; OATHS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section or in
another section of the Ohio Revised Code, each officer of the municipality or
of any department or board of the municipality, whether elected or appointed as
a substitute for a regular officer, shall be an elector of the municipality
and, before entering upon official duties, shall take an oath to support the
Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State and an oath
that the officer will faithfully, honestly, and impartially discharge the
duties of the office to which elected or appointed. These provisions as to
official oaths shall extend to deputies, but they need not be electors.
   (B)   Neither this section nor any section of the Ohio Revised Code
requires, or shall be construed to require, that a Fire Chief be an elector of
the municipality.
(R.C. § 733.68)
   (C)   All non-elected members of village boards and commissions must
annually be sworn in by the Mayor or Mayor's delegate. An oath of office shall
be provided to all non-elected members at the first meeting of the board or
commission on which they serve. This oath of office also includes the dates of
their term of office on the board or commission. The oath of office for each
board or commission member shall be kept on file by the Village Clerk of
Council.
(Ord. 2019-028, passed 7-1-2019)
§ 30.03 BONDS OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES; AMOUNT.
   Before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, each officer and
employee, where it is required by the legislative authority, shall execute a
bond approved according to law in the amount set forth for his or her
respective office or position.
§ 30.04 ADDITIONAL BOND; WHERE BONDS RECORDED AND KEPT.
   Except as otherwise provided in the municipal charter or in R.C. § 3.061,
each officer required by law or ordinance to give bond shall do so before
entering upon the duties of the office. Except as otherwise provided in the
municipal charter or in R.C. § 3.061, the Legislative Authority may at any time
require each officer to give a new or additional bond. Each bond, except that
of the Auditor or Clerk, upon its approval, shall be delivered to the Auditor
or Clerk, who shall immediately record it in a record provided for that purpose
and file and carefully preserve it in the Auditor’s or Clerk’s office. The bond
of the Auditor or Clerk shall be delivered to the Treasurer, who shall in like
manner record and preserve it.
(R.C. § 733.69)
§ 30.05 APPROVAL OF BONDS.
   The official bonds of all municipal officers shall be prepared by the
Solicitor or Director of Law. Except as otherwise provided in state law, the
bonds shall be in a sum as the legislative authority prescribes by general or
special ordinance, and be subject to the approval of the Mayor, except that the
Mayor’s bond shall be approved by the legislative authority, or, if it is not
legally organized, by the Clerk of the Court of Common Pleas of the county in
which the municipality or the larger part thereof is situated.
(R.C. § 733.70)
§ 30.06 SUFFICIENCY OF FORM OF BOND.
   In each bond mentioned in §
30.05, the condition that the person elected or appointed shall faithfully
perform the duties of the office shall be sufficient. The fact that the
instrument is without a seal, that blanks for the date or amount have been
filled subsequent to its execution but before its acceptance, without the
consent of the sureties, that all the obligees named in the instrument have not
signed it, that new duties have been imposed on the officers or that any merely
formal objection exists shall not be available in any suit on the instrument.
(R.C. § 733.71)
§ 30.07 FILLING VACANCIES IN OFFICES.
   Unless otherwise provided by law, vacancies arising in appointive and
elective offices of the municipality shall be filled by appointment by the
Mayor for the remainder of the unexpired term, provided that:
   (A)   Vacancies in the office of the Mayor shall be filled in the manner
provided by R.C. § 733.25, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
   (B)   Vacancies in the membership of the legislative authority shall be
filled in the manner provided by R.C. § 731.43, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance;
   (C)   Vacancies in the office of President Pro Tempore of the legislative
authority shall be filled in the manner provided by R.C. § 731.11, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance; and
   (D)   Vacancies in the office of Clerk or Treasurer may be filled in the
following manner: the Mayor may appoint a person to serve as acting officer to
perform the duties of the office until a permanent officer is appointed to fill
the vacancy.
(R.C. § 733.31(A))
§ 30.08 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   (A)   Upon request by any person and subject to division (H) of this
section, all public records responsive to the request shall be promptly
prepared and made available for inspection to the requester at all reasonable
times during regular business hours. Subject to division (H) of this section,
upon request by any person, a public office or person responsible for public
records shall make copies of the requested public record available to the
requestor at cost and within a reasonable period of time. If a public record
contains information that is exempt from the duty to permit public inspection
or to copy the public record, the public office or the person responsible for
the public record shall make available all of the information within the public
record that is not exempt. When making that public record available for public
inspection or copying that public record, the public office or the person
responsible for the public record shall notify the requester of any redaction
or make the redaction plainly visible. A redaction shall be deemed a denial of
a request to inspect or copy the redacted information, except if federal or
state law authorizes or requires a public office to make the redaction.
   (B)   To facilitate broader access to public records, a public office or the
person responsible for public records shall organize and maintain public
records in a manner that they can be made available for inspection or copying
in accordance with this section. A public office also shall have available a
copy of its current records retention schedule at a location readily available
to the public. If a requester makes an ambiguous or overly broad request or has
difficulty in making a request for copies or inspection of public records under
this section, such that the public office or the person responsible for the
requested public record cannot reasonably identify what public records are
being requested, the public office or the person responsible for the requested
public record may deny the request but shall provide the requester with an
opportunity to revise the request by informing the requester of the manner in
which records are maintained by the public office and accessed in the ordinary
course of the public office’s or person’s duties.
   (C)   If a request is ultimately denied, in part or in whole, the public
office or the person responsible for the requested public record shall provide
the requester with an explanation, including legal authority, setting forth why
the request was denied. If the initial request was provided in writing, the
explanation also shall be provided to the requester in writing. The explanation
shall not preclude the public office or the person responsible for the
requested public record from relying upon additional reasons or legal authority
in defending an action commenced under R.C. § 149.43(C).
   (D)   Unless specifically required or authorized by state or federal law or
in accordance this section, no public office or person responsible for public
records may limit or condition the availability of public records by requiring
disclosure of the requester’s identity or the intended use of the requested
public record. Any requirement that the requester disclose the requester’s
identity or the intended use of the requested public record constitutes a
denial of the request.
   (E)   A public office or person responsible for public records may ask a
requester to make the request in writing, may ask for the requester’s identity,
and may inquire about the intended use of the information requested, but may do
so only after disclosing to the requester that a written request is not
mandatory and that the requester may decline to reveal the requester’s identity
or the intended use, and when a written request or disclosure of the identity
or intended use would benefit the requester by enhancing the ability of the
public office or person responsible for public records to identify, locate, or
deliver the public records sought by the requester.
   (F)   If any person requests a copy of a public record in accordance with
this section, the public office or person responsible for the public record may
require the requester to pay in advance the cost involved in providing the copy
of the public record in accordance with the choice made by the requester under
this division. The public office or the person responsible for the public
record shall permit the requester to choose to have the public record
duplicated upon paper, upon the same medium upon which the public office or
person responsible for the public record keeps it, or upon any other medium
upon which the public office or person responsible for the public record
determines that it reasonably can be duplicated as an integral part of the
normal operations of the public office or person responsible for the public
record. When the requester makes a choice under this division, the public
office or person responsible for the public record shall provide a copy of it
in accordance with the choice made by the requester. Nothing in this section
requires a public office or person responsible for the public record to allow
the requester of a copy of the public record to make the copies of the public
record.
   (G)   (1)   Upon a request made in accordance with this section, and subject
to division (F) of this section, a public office or person responsible for
public records shall transmit a copy of a public record to any person by United
States mail or by any other means of delivery or transmission within a
reasonable period of time after receiving the request for the copy. The public
office or person responsible for the public record may require the person
making the request to pay in advance the cost of postage if the copy is
transmitted by United States mail or the cost of delivery if the copy is
transmitted other than by United States mail, and to pay in advance the costs
incurred for other supplies used in the mailing, delivery, or transmission.
      (2)   Any public office may adopt a policy and procedures that it will
follow in transmitting, within a reasonable period of time after receiving a
request, copies of public records by United States mail or by any other means
of delivery or transmission pursuant to this division (G) of this section. A
public office that adopts a policy and procedures under this division (G) of
this section shall comply with them in performing its duties under that
division.
      (3)   In any policy and procedures adopted under this division (G) of
this section:
         (a)   A public office may limit the number of records requested by a
person that the office will physically deliver by United States mail or by
another delivery service to ten per month, unless the person certifies to the
office in writing that the person does not intend to use or forward the
requested records, or the information contained in them, for commercial
purposes.
         (b)   A public office that chooses to provide some or all of its
public records on a website that is fully accessible to and searchable by
members of the public at all times, other than during acts of God outside the
public office’s control or maintenance, and that charges no fee to search,
access, download, or otherwise receive records provided on the website, may
limit to ten per month the number of records requested by a person that the
office will deliver in a digital format, unless the requested records are not
provided on the website and unless the person certifies to the office in
writing that the person does not intend to use or forward the requested
records, or the information contained in them, for commercial purposes.
         (c)   For purposes of this division (G) of this section, COMMERCIAL
shall be narrowly construed and does not include reporting or gathering news,
reporting or gathering information to assist citizen oversight or understanding
the operation or activities of government, or nonprofit educational research.
   (H)   A public office or person responsible for public records is not
required to permit a person who is incarcerated pursuant to a criminal
conviction or a juvenile adjudication to inspect or to obtain a copy of any
public record concerning a criminal investigation or prosecution or concerning
what would be a criminal investigation or prosecution if the subject of the
investigation or prosecution were an adult, unless the request to inspect or to
obtain a copy of the record is for the purpose of acquiring information that is
subject to release as a public record under this section and the judge who
imposed the sentence or made the adjudication with respect to the person, or
the judge’s successor in office, finds that the information sought in the
public record is necessary to support what appears to be a justiciable claim of
the person.
   (I)   (1)   Upon written request made and signed by a journalist, a public
office, or person responsible for public records, having custody of the records
of the agency employing a specified designated public service worker, as
defined in R.C. § 149.43, shall disclose to the journalist the address of the
actual personal residence of the designated public service worker and, if the
designated public service worker’s spouse, former spouse or child is employed
by a public office, the name and address of the employer of the designated
public service worker’s spouse, former spouse or child. The request shall
include the journalist’s name and title and the name and address of the
journalist’s employer and shall state that disclosure of the information sought
would be in the public interest.
      (2)   Division (I)(1) of this section also applies to journalist requests
for:
         (a)   Customer information maintained by a municipally owned or
operated public utility, other than social security numbers and any private
financial information such as credit reports, payment methods, credit card
numbers, and bank account information.
         (b)    Information about minors involved in a school vehicle accident
as provided in division R.C. § 149.43(A)(1)(gg), other than personal
information as defined in R.C. § 149.45.
      (3)   As used in this division (I), JOURNALIST means a person engaged in,
connected with or employed by any news medium, including a newspaper, magazine,
press association, news agency or wire service, a radio or television station,
or a similar medium, for the purpose of gathering, processing, transmitting,
compiling, editing, or disseminating information for the general public.
   (J)   Upon a request made by a victim, victim’s attorney, or victim’s
representative, as that term is used in R.C. § 2930.02, a public office or
person responsible for public records shall transmit a copy of a depiction of
the victim as described in R.C. § 149.43(A)(1)(ii) to the victim, victim’s
attorney, or victim’s representative.
   (K)   (1)   To ensure that all employees of public offices are appropriately
educated about a public office’s obligations under this section, all elected
officials or their appropriate designees shall attend training approved by the
Attorney General as provided in R.C. § 109.43. A future official may satisfy
the requirements of this division by attending the training before taking
office, provided that the future official may not send a designee in the future
official’s place.
      (2)   All public offices shall adopt a public records policy in
compliance with this section for responding to public records requests. In
adopting a public records policy under this division, a public office may
obtain guidance from the model public records policy developed and provided to
the public office by the Attorney General under R.C. § 109.43. Except as
otherwise provided in this section or R.C. § 149.43, the policy may not limit
the number of public records that the public office will make available to a
single person, may not limit the number of public records that it will make
available during a fixed period of time, and may not establish a fixed period
of time before it will respond to a request for inspection or copying of public
records, unless that period is less than eight hours.
      (3)   The public office shall distribute the public records policy
adopted by the public office under this division (K) to the employee of the
public office who is the records custodian or records manager or otherwise has
custody of the records of that office. The public office shall require that
employee to acknowledge receipt of the copy of the public records policy. The
public office shall create a poster that describes its public records policy
and shall post the poster in a conspicuous place in the public office and in
all locations where the public office has branch offices. The public office may
post its public records policy on the internet web site of the public office if
the public office maintains an internet web site. A public office that has
established a manual or handbook of its general policies and procedures for all
employees of the public office shall include the public records policy of the
public office in the manual or handbook.
(R.C. § 149.43(B), (E))
Statutory reference:
   Availability and scope of public records; mandamus action to compel
disclosure, see R.C. § 149.43
   Competitive bidding, public inspection, and copying prohibited, see R.C. §
125.071
§ 30.09 RECORDS COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby established in and for the municipality a Records
Commission, composed of the Chief Executive of the municipality, or the Chief
Executive’s appointed representative, as Chairperson, and the Chief Fiscal
Officer, the Chief Legal Officer, and a citizen appointed by the Chief
Executive. The Commission shall appoint a Secretary, who may or may not be a
member of the Commission, and who shall serve at the pleasure of the
Commission. The Commission may employ an archivist or records manager to serve
under its direction. The Commission shall meet at least once every six months
and upon the call of the Chairperson.
   (B)   The functions of the Commission shall be to provide rules for
retention and disposal of records of the municipality and to review
applications for one-time disposal of obsolete records and schedules of records
retention and disposition submitted by municipal offices. The Commission may
dispose of records pursuant to the procedure outlined in R.C. § 149.381. The
Commission, at any time, may review any schedule it has previously approved
and, for good cause shown, may revise that schedule under the procedure
outlined in that section.
(R.C. § 149.39)
Statutory reference:
   Review of records by Ohio Historical Society, see R.C. § 149.381
§ 30.10 MEETINGS OF PUBLIC BODIES TO BE OPEN; EXCEPTIONS; NOTICE.
   (A)   This section shall be liberally construed to require public officials
to take official action and to conduct all deliberations upon official business
only in open meetings, unless the subject matter is specifically excepted by
law.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MEETING. Any prearranged discussion of the public business of the public
body by a majority of its members.
      PUBLIC BODY. Any of the following:
         (a)   Any board, commission, committee, council, or similar decision-
making body of a state agency, institution, or authority, and any legislative
authority or board, commission, committee, council, agency, authority, or
similar decision-making body of any county, township, municipal corporation,
school district, or other political subdivision or local public institution;
         (b)   Any committee or subcommittee of a body described in division
(a) of this definition; or
         (c)   A court of jurisdiction of a sanitary district organized wholly
for the purpose of providing a water supply for domestic municipal and public
use when meeting for the purpose of the appointment, removal, or reappointment
of a member of the board of directors of such a district pursuant to R.C. §
6115.10, if applicable, or for any other matter related to such a district
other than litigation involving the district. As used in this division (c),
COURT OF JURISDICTION has the same meaning as “court” in R.C. § 6115.01.
      PUBLIC OFFICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 149.011.
      REGULATED INDIVIDUAL. Either of the following:
         (a)   A student in a state or local public educational institution; or
         (b)   A person who is, voluntarily or involuntarily, an inmate,
patient, or resident of a state or local institution because of criminal
behavior, mental illness, an intellectual disability, disease, disability, age,
or other condition requiring custodial care.
   (C)   (1)   All meetings of any public body are declared to be public
meetings open to the public at all times. A member of a public body shall be
present in person at a meeting open to the public to be considered present or
to vote at the meeting and for purposes of determining whether a quorum is
present at the meeting.
      (2)   The minutes of a regular or special meeting of any public body
shall be promptly prepared, filed, and maintained and shall be open to public
inspection. The minutes need only reflect the general subject matter of
discussions in executive sessions authorized under division (F) of this
section.
   (D)   This section does not apply to any of the following: a grand jury; an
audit conference conducted by the auditor of state or independent certified
public accountants with officials of the public office that is the subject of
the audit; or to other entities as set forth in R.C. § 121.22(D) and (E).
   (E)   (1)   Every public body, by rule, shall establish a reasonable method
whereby any person may determine the time and place of all regularly scheduled
meetings and the time, place, and purpose of all special meetings. A public
body shall not hold a special meeting unless it gives at least 24 hours’
advance notice to the news media that have requested notification, except in
the event of an emergency requiring immediate official action. In the event of
an emergency, the member or members calling the meeting shall notify the news
media that have requested notification immediately of the time, place, and
purpose of the meeting.
      (2)   The rule shall provide that any person, upon request and payment of
a reasonable fee, may obtain reasonable advance notification of all meetings at
which any specific type of public business is to be discussed. Provisions for
advance notification may include, but are not limited to, mailing the agenda of
meetings to all subscribers on a mailing list or mailing notices in self-
addressed, stamped envelopes provided by the person.
   (F)   Except as provided in division (F)(8) of this section, the members of
a public body may hold an executive session only after a majority of a quorum
of the public body determines, by a roll call vote, to hold an executive
session and only at a regular or special meeting for the sole purpose of the
consideration of any of the following matters:
      (1)   To consider the appointment, employment, dismissal, discipline,
promotion, demotion, or compensation of a public employee or official, or the
investigation of charges or complaints against a public employee, official,
licensee, or regulated individual, unless the public employee, official,
licensee, or regulated individual requests a public hearing. Except as
otherwise provided by law, no public body shall hold an executive session for
the discipline of an elected official for conduct related to the performance of
the elected official’s official duties or for the elected official’s removal
from office. If a public body holds an executive session pursuant to this
division (F)(1), the motion and vote to hold that executive session shall state
which one or more of the approved purposes listed in this division (F)(1) are
the purposes for which the executive session is to be held, but need not
include the name of any person to be considered at the meeting;
      (2)   (a)   To consider the purchase of property for public purposes, the
sale of property at competitive bidding, or the sale or other disposition of
unneeded, obsolete, or unfit-for-use property in accordance with R.C. § 505.10,
if premature disclosure of information would give an unfair competitive or
bargaining advantage to a person whose personal, private interest is adverse to
the general public interest. No member of a public body shall use this division
(F)(2) as a subterfuge for providing covert information to prospective buyers
or sellers. A purchase or sale of public property is void if the seller or
buyer of the public property has received covert information from a member of a
public body that has not been disclosed to the general public in sufficient
time for other prospective buyers and sellers to prepare and submit offers.
         (b)   If the minutes of the public body show that all meetings and
deliberations of the public body have been conducted in compliance with this
section, any instrument executed by the public body purporting to convey,
lease, or otherwise dispose of any right, title, or interest in any public
property shall be conclusively presumed to have been executed in compliance
with this section insofar as title or other interest of any bona fide
purchasers, lessees, or transferees of the property is concerned.
      (3)   Conferences with an attorney for the public body concerning
disputes involving the public body that are the subject of pending or imminent
court action;
      (4)   Preparing for, conducting, or reviewing negotiations or bargaining
sessions with public employees concerning their compensation or other terms and
conditions of their employment;
      (5)   Matters required to be kept confidential by federal law or
regulations or state statutes;
      (6)   Details relative to the security arrangements and emergency
response protocols for a public body or a public office, if disclosure of the
matters discussed could reasonably be expected to jeopardize the security of
the public body or public office;
      (7)    In the case of a county hospital operated pursuant to R.C. Chapter
339, a joint township hospital operated pursuant to R.C. Chapter 513, or a
municipal hospital operated pursuant to R.C. Chapter 749, to consider trade
secrets, as defined in R.C. § 1333.61;
      (8)   To consider confidential information related to the marketing
plans, specific business strategy, production techniques, trade secrets, or
personal financial statements of an applicant for economic development
assistance, or to negotiations with other political subdivisions respecting
requests for economic development assistance, provided that both of the
following conditions apply:
         (a)   The information is directly related to a request for economic
development assistance that is to be provided or administered under any
provision of R.C. Chapter 715, 725, 1724, or 1728 or R.C. §§ 701.07, 3735.67 to
3735.70, 5709.40 to 5709.43, 5709.61 to 5709.69, 5709.73 to 5709.75, or 5709.77
to 5709.81, or that involves public infrastructure improvements or the
extension of utility services that are directly related to an economic
development project; or
         (b)   A unanimous quorum of the public body determines, by a roll call
vote, that the executive session is necessary to protect the interests of the
applicant or the possible investment or expenditure of public funds to be made
in connection with the economic development project.
      (9)   If a public body holds an executive session to consider any of the
matters listed in divisions (F)(2) through (F)(8) of this section, the motion
and vote to hold that executive session shall state which one or more of the
approved matters listed in those divisions are to be considered at the
executive session; or
      (10)   A public body specified in division (c) of the definition of
“public body” in this section shall not hold an executive session when meeting
for the purposes specified in that division (c).
   (G)   A resolution, rule, or formal action of any kind is invalid unless
adopted in an open meeting of the public body. A resolution, rule, or formal
action adopted in an open meeting that results from deliberations in a meeting
not open to the public is invalid unless the deliberations were for a purpose
specifically authorized in division (F) of this section and conducted at an
executive session held in compliance with this section. A resolution, rule, or
formal action adopted in an open meeting is invalid if the public body that
adopted the resolution, rule, or formal action violated division (E) of this
section.
   (H)   (1)   Any person may bring an action to enforce this section. An
action under this division (H)(1) shall be brought within two years after the
date of the alleged violation or threatened violation. Upon proof of a
violation or threatened violation of this section in an action brought by any
person, the court of common pleas shall issue an injunction to compel the
members of the public body to comply with its provisions.
      (2)   (a)   If the court of common pleas issues an injunction pursuant to
division (H)(1) of this section, the court shall order the public body that it
enjoins to pay a civil forfeiture of $500 to the party that sought the
injunction and shall award to that party all court costs and, subject to
reduction as described in this division (H)(2), reasonable attorney’s fees. The
court, in its discretion, may reduce an award of attorney’s fees to the party
that sought the injunction or not award attorney’s fees to that party if the
court determines both of the following:
            1.   That, based on the ordinary application of statutory law and
case law as it existed at the time of violation or threatened violation that
was the basis of the injunction, a well-informed public body reasonably would
believe that the public body was not violating or threatening to violate this
section; and
            2.   That a well-informed public body reasonably would believe that
the conduct or threatened conduct that was the basis of the injunction would
serve the public policy that underlies the authority that is asserted as
permitting that conduct or threatened conduct.
         (b)   If the court of common pleas does not issue an injunction
pursuant to division (H)(1) of this section and the court determines at that
time that the bringing of the action was frivolous conduct, as defined in R.C.
§ 2323.51(A), the court shall award to the public body all court costs and
reasonable attorney’s fees, as determined by the court.
      (3)   Irreparable harm and prejudice to the party that sought the
injunction shall be conclusively and irrebuttably presumed upon proof of a
violation or threatened violation of this section.
      (4)   A member of a public body who knowingly violates an injunction
issued pursuant to division (H)(1) of this section may be removed from office
by an action brought in the court of common pleas for that purpose by the
prosecuting attorney or the attorney general.
(R.C. § 121.22)
Statutory reference:
   Application of open meetings and exceptions to specific state bodies, see
R.C. § 121.22(D), (E) and (J)
§ 30.11 MUNICIPAL OFFICERS MAY ATTEND CONFERENCE OR CONVENTION; EXPENSES.
   (A)   Any elected or appointed officer, deputy, assistant, or employee of
the municipality may attend, at the expense of the municipality, any conference
or convention relating to municipal affairs, if authorized by the Mayor, the
President of the legislative authority, or the Administrator. If the fiscal
officer of the municipality certifies that funds are appropriated and available
for that purpose, the person shall be reimbursed for his or her expense so
incurred.
   (B)   A request for this allowance shall be made in writing to the Mayor,
the President of the legislative authority, or the Administrator, showing the
necessity for the attendance and an estimate of the costs thereof to the
municipality.
(R.C. § 733.79)
§ 30.12 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2743.01.
      VOLUNTEER. A person who is not paid for service or who is employed on
less than a permanent full-time basis.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) of this section, no
political subdivision shall require any of its employees, as a condition of
employment, to reside in any specific area of the state.
   (C)   (1)   Division (B) of this section does not apply to a VOLUNTEER.
      (2)   To ensure adequate response times by certain employees of political
subdivisions to emergencies or disasters while ensuring that those employees
generally are free to reside throughout the state, the electors of any
political subdivision may file an initiative petition to submit a local law to
the electorate, or the legislative authority may adopt an ordinance or
resolution, that requires any individual employed by that political
subdivision, as a condition of employment, to reside either in the county where
the political subdivision is located or in any adjacent county in this state.
For purposes of this section, an initiative petition shall be filed and
considered as provided in R.C. §§ 731.28 and 731.31, except that the Fiscal
Officer of the political subdivision shall take the actions prescribed for the
Auditor or Clerk if the political subdivision has no Auditor or Clerk, and
except that references to a municipal corporation shall be considered to be
references to the applicable political subdivision.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C), employees of political
subdivisions of this state have the right to reside any place they desire.
(R.C. § 9.481)
CHAPTER 31: EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY
Section
   
31.01   Safety Director of the Department of Safety
   
31.02   Code Enforcement Officer
   
31.03   Chief Operator
   
31.04   Plant Operator
   
31.05   Street maintenance worker
   
31.06   Clerk of Council
   
31.07   Information Technology Committee
   
31.08   Finance Director and purchase orders
Charter reference:
   Administrative departments, see Charter Art. VI
   Boards and commissions, see Charter Art. VII
   Finance Director, see Charter §§
6.04 and
6.05
   Law Director, see Charter §§
6.02 and
6.03
   Mayor, see Charter §
3.01
   Village Manager, see Charter Art. V
§ 31.01 SAFETY DIRECTOR OF THE DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY.
   (A)   Pursuant to Charter §
6.08, the Village Council hereby creates the Department of Safety and further
creates the separate and full-time position of Safety Director to be filled
through appointment by the Village Manager. The Safety Director shall report
and be responsible to the Village Manager.
   (B)   The job description for the position of Safety Director, as attached
to Ordinance 95-107 and as may be amended from time to time, is hereby adopted
by reference and shall be treated as if set forth in full herein. The Safety
Director, in conformance with the Village Charter, shall have the supervision
and control over the functions of the police, the reserve police, and auxiliary
police and will be responsible to coordinate with other law enforcement and
fire protection agencies as may be authorized by the Village Council.
   (C)   The salary for the position of Safety Director, as set forth in
Ordinance 2000-040 and as may be amended from time to time, is hereby adopted
by reference and shall be treated as if set forth in full herein.
(Ord. 95-107, passed 2-21-1995; Ord. 2000-040, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 31.02 CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   The village hereby creates the position of Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   The job description for the position of Code Enforcement Officer, as
attached to Ordinance 97-109 and as may be amended from time to time, is hereby
adopted by reference and shall be treated as if set forth in full herein.
   (C)   It is specifically set forth by this section that it is the intention
of the Village Council that the creation of the position of Code Enforcement
Officer shall be a part-time position not to exceed 20 hours per week with an
hourly salary as established by the Village Council. The time records to be
maintained by the Code Enforcement Officer shall be consistent with the
recommendations of the Village Manager and the Village Finance Director.
(Ord. 97-109, passed 2-18-1997)
§ 31.03CHIEF OPERATOR.
   The village shall create the position of Chief Operator within the village’s
Utility Department. The job description is set forth in the ordinance codified
herein as exhibit “A”.
(Ord. 2003-062, passed 1-5-2004)
§ 31.04 PLANT OPERATOR.
   (A)   The position of Plant Operator for the village’s water and sewer plant
be established. The pay scale and job description attached to the ordinance
codified herein and marked as exhibit “A” is approved for this position.
   (B)   The creation of this position is necessary for the health, safety, and
welfare of the village and for the specific purpose that additional manpower is
needed to have trained staff available for current use, as well as being
trained to assume additional responsibilities for eventual retirement of
current employees.
(Ord. 2003-033, passed 7-21-2003)
§ 31.05 STREET MAINTENANCE WORKER.
   (A)   A full-time position of street maintenance worker shall become a
position within the village.
   (B)   This section is necessary for the health, safety, and welfare of the
village and for the specific purpose of providing needed labor to the village
for projects that have been determined to be necessary to be completed.
(Res. 2005-041, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 31.06 CLERK OF COUNCIL.
   (A)   A part-time Clerk of Council shall become a position within the
village.
   (B)   This section is necessary for the health, safety, and welfare of the
village and for the specific purpose of accomplishing the clerical needs of the
village.
(Res. 2005-042, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 31.07 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The Information Technology Committee be established as set forth in
the resolution codified herein as exhibit “A”.
   (B)   This section is for the health, safety, and welfare of the village and
for the specific purpose of making sure that the Committee operates in a smooth
and effective manner.
(Res. 2004-040, passed - -)
§ 31.08 FINANCE DIRECTOR AND PURCHASE ORDERS.
   The Village Council authorizes and hereby directs the Village Finance
Director, in accordance with state law, to establish and adopt policies and
procedures for the issuance of blanket purchase orders by the village subject
to a monetary limit not to exceed $190,000 or the appropriated amount of said
category of expenditure for the involved department, whichever is less.
(Ord. 2014-007, passed 2-18-2014)
CHAPTER 32: LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY
Section
General Provisions
   
32.001   Members of the legislative authority; election; terms of office
   
32.002   President Pro Tempore; employees
   
32.003   Vacancy when President Pro Tempore becomes Mayor
   
32.004   Qualifications of members of the legislative authority
   
32.005   Compensation and bonds of municipal officers and employees
   
32.006   Vacancy
   
32.007   Judge of election and qualification of members; quorum and special
meetings
   
32.008   Rules; journal; expulsion of members
   
32.009   Meetings
   
32.010   General powers
   
32.011   Failure to take oath or give bond
   
32.012   Notice when new bond required
   
32.013   Care, supervision, and management of public institutions
   
32.014   Continuing education requirements
Contracts, Bids, and Proceedings
   
32.025   Contracts by the legislative authority or Administrator
   
32.026   Bids and proceedings
   
32.027   Alterations or modifications of contract
   
32.028   Contract restrictions
   
32.029   Award to lowest responsive and responsible bidder
Ordinances and Resolutions
   
32.040   Ordinances and resolutions as evidence
   
32.041   Passage procedure
   
32.042   Style of ordinances
   
32.043   Subject and amendment of ordinances and resolutions
   
32.044   Authentication and recording of ordinances and resolutions
   
32.045   Publication of ordinances and resolutions; proof of publication and
circulation
   
32.046   Notice for proposed amendments to the Village Charter
   
32.047   Times of publication required
   
32.048   Publication and certification of ordinances in book form
   
32.049   Adoption of technical ordinances and codes
   
32.050   Certificate of Clerk as to publication
   
32.051   Effect of not making publication
   
32.052   Ordinances providing for appropriations or street improvements;
emergency ordinances
Initiative and Referendum
   
32.070   Initiative petitions
   
32.071   Referendum petitions
   
32.072   More than one ordinance required; application of subchapter
   
32.073   Presentation of petitions
   
32.074   Copy of proposed ordinance or measure to be filed with Clerk
   
32.075   Words to be printed in red
   
32.076   Designation of committee filing petition; public inspection of
petitions; ordinances passed or repealed prior to election
   
32.077   Itemized statement by circulator of petition
   
32.078   Prohibited practices relative to petitions
   
32.079   Accepting premiums for signing
   
32.080   Threats in securing signatures
   
32.081   Application of subchapter if Charter adopted
Statutory reference:
   Village accounting and financial reporting, State Auditor regulations, see
O.A.C. Chapter 117-9
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.001 MEMBERS OF THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY; ELECTION; TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) or (C) of this section,
the legislative power of each municipality shall be vested in, and exercised
by, a legislative authority, composed of six members, who shall be elected by
the electors of the municipality at large, for terms of four years.
   (B)   The legislative authority may adopt an ordinance or resolution that,
if approved by a majority of the electors voting on the issue, would reduce the
number of members of the legislative authority to five. A certified copy of the
ordinance or resolution shall be filed with the Board of Elections no later
than 4:00 p.m. of the ninetieth day before the day of the next election at
which members of the legislative authority are to be elected.
   (C)   The electors may propose a reduction in the number of members of the
legislative authority from six to five by initiative petition in accordance
with the procedure set forth in R.C. § 731.28.
   (D)   If a majority of the votes cast on the question proposed under
division (B) or (C) of this section is in the affirmative, the legislative
authority shall be composed of five members, who shall be elected at large, for
terms of four years. If members of the legislative authority have staggered
terms of office as required by this section, the decrease in number of members
shall be implemented as necessary over the next two municipal elections at
which members of the legislative authority would be elected. If the legislative
authority has adopted an ordinance or resolution to eliminate staggered terms
of office under division (E) of this section, the five members shall be elected
as set forth in division (E)(2)(b) of this section.
(R.C. § 731.09)
   (E)   (1)   The legislative authority may, by the adoption of an ordinance
or resolution to eliminate staggered terms of office, determine that all
members of the legislative authority shall be elected at the same municipal
election as provided for in this section.
      (2)   At the regular municipal election occurring not less than 90 days
after the certification of the ordinance or resolution to the Board of
Elections eliminating staggered terms of office, the following apply.
         (a)   If there are six members of the legislative authority, the
number of members eligible for election at that regular municipal election
shall be elected to two-year nonstaggered terms, and all members of the
legislative authority shall be elected to four-year nonstaggered terms at all
following municipal elections.
         (b)   If there are five members of the legislative authority, a number
of members that is one less than the number of members that would otherwise be
eligible for election at that regular municipal election but for the first-time
implementation of the new membership of five, or, in the case of a village that
has previously reduced its number of members to five, then the number of
members eligible for election at that regular municipal election shall be
elected to two-year nonstaggered terms, and all members shall be elected to
four-year nonstaggered terms at all following municipal elections.
(R.C. § 731.091)
§ 32.002 PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE; EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   At the first meeting in January of each year, the legislative
authority shall immediately proceed to elect a President Pro Tempore from its
own number, who shall serve until the first meeting in January next after his
or her election. The legislative authority may provide employees for the
municipality as it determines, and employees may be removed at any regular
meeting by a majority of the members elected to the legislative authority.
   (B)   When the Mayor is absent from the municipality, or is unable, for any
cause, to perform his or her duties, the President Pro Tempore shall be the
acting Mayor, and shall have the same powers and perform the same duties as the
Mayor.
(R.C. § 731.10)
§ 32.003 VACANCY WHEN PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE BECOMES MAYOR.
   When the President Pro Tempore of the legislative authority becomes the
Mayor, the vacancy thus created shall be filled as provided in §
32.006, and the legislative authority shall elect another President Pro Tempore
from its own number, who shall have the same rights, powers, and duties as his
or her predecessor.
(R.C. § 731.11)
§ 32.004 QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS OF THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Each member of the legislative authority shall have resided in the
municipality for at least one year immediately preceding the member’s election,
and shall be an elector of the municipality. No member of the legislative
authority shall hold any other public office, be interested in any contract
with the municipality, or hold employment with the municipality, except that
the member may be a notary public, a member of the state militia, or a
volunteer firefighter of the village; provided, that the member shall not
receive any compensation for his or her services as a volunteer firefighter of
the village in addition to his or her regular compensation as a member of the
legislative authority. Any member who ceases to possess any of these
qualifications, or who moves from the municipality, shall forfeit his or her
office.
   (B)   The purpose of establishing a one-year residency requirement in this
section is to recognize that the municipality has a substantial and compelling
interest in encouraging qualified candidacies for election to the office of
member of the legislative authority by ensuring that a candidate for the office
has every opportunity to become knowledgeable with and concerned about the
problems and needs of the area the candidate seeks to represent. In enacting
this requirement, the municipality finds that the one-year period is reasonably
related to this purpose, while leaving unimpaired a person’s right to travel,
to vote, and to be a candidate for public office.
(R.C. § 731.12)
§ 32.005 COMPENSATION AND BONDS OF MUNICIPAL OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   The legislative authority shall fix the compensation and bonds of all
officers, clerks, and employees of the municipality, except as otherwise
provided by law. The legislative authority shall, in the case of elective
officers, fix their compensation for the ensuing term of office at a meeting
held not later than five days prior to the last day fixed by law for filing as
a candidate for that office. All bonds shall be made with sureties subject to
the approval of the Mayor. The compensation so fixed shall not be increased or
diminished during the term for which any officer is elected or appointed. This
section does not prohibit the payment of any increased costs of continuing to
provide the identical benefits provided to an officer at the commencement of
his or her term of office.
(R.C. § 731.13)
§ 32.006 VACANCY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section, when the
office of a member of the legislative authority becomes vacant, the vacancy
shall be filled by election by the legislative authority for the unexpired
term. If the legislative authority fails within 30 days to fill the vacancy,
the Mayor shall fill it by appointment, except that subject to division (B) of
this section, when the vacancy occurs because of the operation of R.C. §
733.25, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the successor shall
hold office only for the period the President Pro Tempore of the legislative
authority holds the office of Mayor.
   (B)   When a vacancy occurs in the office of a member of the legislative
authority of a village with a population of less than 2,000 because of the
operation of R.C. § 733.25, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
at the time the President Pro Tempore becomes Mayor, the President Pro Tempore
shall decide whether he or she wishes to serve the remainder of his or her
unexpired term as a member of the legislative authority when the Mayor’s
successor is elected and qualified in accordance with R.C. § 733.25, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance. If the President Pro Tempore
decides to serve the remainder of his or her unexpired term as a member of the
legislative authority, the vacancy on the legislative authority shall not be
filled and the President Pro Tempore shall resume serving his or her unexpired
term on the legislative authority as soon as the Mayor’s successor is elected
and qualified. If the President Pro Tempore decides not to resume serving the
remainder of his or her unexpired term as a member of the legislative authority
as soon as the Mayor’s successor is elected and qualified, then the vacancy in
the office of the member of the legislative authority shall be filled in
accordance with this section.
(R.C. § 731.43(A))
§ 32.007 JUDGE OF ELECTION AND QUALIFICATION OF MEMBERS; QUORUM AND SPECIAL
MEETINGS.
   The legislative authority shall be the judge of the election and
qualification of its members. A majority of all the members elected shall be a
quorum, but a less number may adjourn from day to day and compel attendance of
absent members in a manner and under penalties as are prescribed by ordinance.
The legislative authority shall provide rules for the manner of calling special
meetings.
(R.C. § 731.44)
Cross-reference:
   Open meetings, see §
30.10
§ 32.008 RULES; JOURNAL; EXPULSION OF MEMBERS.
   The legislative authority shall determine its own rules and keep a journal
of its proceedings. It may punish or expel any member for disorderly conduct or
violation of its rules, and declare his or her seat vacant for absence without
valid excuse, where the absence has continued for two months. No expulsion
shall take place without the concurrence of two-thirds of all the members
elected, and until the delinquent member has been notified of the charge
against him or her and has had an opportunity to be heard.
(R.C. § 731.45)
§ 32.009 MEETINGS.
   The legislative authority shall not be required to hold more than one
regular meeting in each week. The meetings may be held at a time and place as
is prescribed by ordinance, and shall, at all times, be open to the public. The
Mayor, or any three members of the legislative authority, may call special
meetings upon at least 12 hours’ notice to each member, served personally or
left at his or her usual place of residence.
(R.C. § 731.46)
Cross-reference:
   Open meetings, see §
30.10
§ 32.010 GENERAL POWERS.
   The legislative authority shall have the management and control of the
finances and property of the municipality, except as otherwise provided.
(R.C. § 731.47)
§ 32.011 FAILURE TO TAKE OATH OR GIVE BOND.
   The legislative authority may declare vacant the office of any person
elected or appointed to the office who, within ten days after he or she has
been notified of his or her appointment or election, or obligation to give a
new or additional bond, fails to take the required official oath or to give any
bond required of him or her.
(R.C. § 731.49)
§ 32.012 NOTICE WHEN NEW BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   When the legislative authority declares by resolution that an officer
shall give a new bond, written notice shall be served by the Clerk upon the
officer designated, and a copy of the notice, with a statement of the time and
place of service, shall be recorded in the proceedings of the legislative
authority.
   (B)   If the officer fails to give the new bond, with sureties, to the
satisfaction of the Mayor, within ten days after such service, the legislative
authority shall declare the office vacant, and the vacancy shall be filled in
the manner provided in R.C. Title VII.
   (C)   When a new bond is accepted or the legislative authority declares the
office vacant, the sureties of the original bond shall cease to be liable for
the acts of that officer done thereafter, but shall continue to be liable for
his or her acts then already done.
(R.C. § 731.50)
§ 32.013 CARE, SUPERVISION, AND MANAGEMENT OF PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS.
   The legislative authority shall provide by resolution or ordinance for the
care, supervision, and management of all public parks, baths, libraries, market
houses, crematories, sewage disposal plants, houses of refuge and correction,
workhouses, infirmaries, hospitals, pesthouses, or any of the institutions
owned, maintained, or established by the municipality. When the legislative
authority determines to plat any of the streets, it shall provide for the
platting thereof.
(R.C. § 735.27)
§ 32.014 CONTINUING EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All members who serve on any board or commission of the village shall
attend eight hours of continuing education approved by the Village Council.
Said education shall consist of an orientation session and an enhancement
session.
   (B)   Said eight hours shall be obtained for every two years of service.
   (C)   This section is for the health, safety, and welfare of the village and
for the specific police purpose of allowing for orderly processes, with results
which are enforceable.
(Res. 2003-045, passed 9-2-2003)
CONTRACTS, BIDS, AND PROCEEDINGS
§ 32.025 CONTRACTS BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OR ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Contracts by the legislative authority.
      (1)   All contracts made by the legislative authority shall be executed
in the name of the municipality and signed on its behalf by the Mayor and
Clerk. Except where the contract is for equipment, services, materials or
supplies to be purchased under R.C. § 125.04, 713.23(D), or 5513.01, or
available from a qualified nonprofit agency pursuant to R.C. §§ 4115.31 through
4115.35, or required to be purchased from a qualified nonprofit agency under
R.C. §§ 125.60 through 125.6012, when any expenditure, other than the
compensation of persons employed in the municipality, exceeds the amount
specified in R.C. § 9.17, such contracts shall be in writing and made to the
lowest and best bidder after advertising once a week for not less than two
consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation within the
municipality. The legislative authority may also cause notice to be inserted in
trade papers or other publications designated by it or to be distributed by
electronic means, including posting the notice on the legislative authority's
internet web site. If the legislative authority posts the notice on its web
site, it may eliminate the second notice otherwise required to be published in
a newspaper of general circulation within the municipality, provided that the
first notice published in such newspaper meets all of the following
requirements:
         (a)   It is published at least two weeks before the opening of bids;
         (b)   It includes a statement that the notice is posted on the
legislative authority’s internet website;
         (c)   It includes the internet address of the legislative authority’s
internet website; and
         (d)   It includes instructions describing how the notice may be
accessed on the legislative authority’s internet website.
      (2)   The bids shall be opened and shall be publicly read by the Clerk or
a person designated by the Clerk at the time, date, and place specified in the
advertisement to bidders or specifications. The time, date, and place of bid
openings may be extended to a late date by the legislative authority, provided
that written or oral notice of the change shall be given to all persons who
have received or requested specifications no later than 96 hours prior to the
original time and date fixed for the opening. This division does not apply to
the municipality if an administrator has been appointed pursuant to the
provisions of R.C. § 735.271, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.(R.C. § 731.14)
   (B)   Contract by Administrator; central purchasing.
      (1)   In those municipalities that have established the position of
Administrator as provided by R.C. § 735.271, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the Administrator shall make contracts, purchase supplies
and materials, and provide labor for any work under the Administrator's
supervision involving the amount specified in R.C. § 9.17. When an expenditure,
other than the compensation of persons employed by the municipality, exceeds
the amount specified in R.C. § 9.17, the expenditure shall first be authorized
and directed by ordinance of the legislative authority. When so authorized and
directed, except where the contract is for equipment, services, materials, or
supplies to be purchased under R.C. § 125.04, 713.23(D), or 5513.01 or
available from a qualified nonprofit agency pursuant to R.C. §§ 4115.31 through
4115.35, or required to be purchased from a qualified nonprofit agency under
R.C. §§ 125.60 through 125.6012, the Administrator shall make a written
contract with the lowest and best bidder after advertisement for not less than
two nor more than four consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation
within the municipality or as provided in R.C. § 7.16. The bids shall be opened
and shall be publicly read by the Administrator or a person designated by the
Administrator at the time, date and place specified in the advertisement to
bidders or specifications. The time, date and place of bid openings may be
extended to a later date by the Administrator, provided that written or oral
notice of the change shall be given to all persons who have received or
requested specifications no later than 96 hours prior to the original time and
date fixed for the opening. All contracts shall be executed in the name of the
municipality and signed on its behalf by the Administrator and the Clerk. No
expenditure subject to this division (B) shall be divided into component parts,
separate projects, or separate items of work in order to avoid the requirements
of this division (B).
      (2)   The legislative authority may provide, by ordinance, for central
purchasing for all offices, departments, divisions, boards, and commissions of
the municipality, under the direction of the Administrator who shall make
contracts, purchase supplies or materials, and provide labor for any work of
the municipality in the manner provided by this division (B).
(R.C. § 731.141)
§ 32.026 BIDS AND PROCEEDINGS.
   Each bid on any contract under §
32.025 shall contain the full name of every person interested in the bid. If
the bid is for the construction, demolition, alteration, repair, or
reconstruction of an improvement, it shall meet the requirements of R.C. §
153.54. If the bid is for any other contract authorized by §
32.025, it shall be accompanied by a sufficient bond or certified check,
cashiers check, or money order on a solvent bank or savings and loan
association that, if the bid is accepted, a contract will be entered into and
the performance of it properly secured. If the bid for work embraces both labor
and materials, it shall be separately stated, with the price thereof. The
legislative authority or Administrator, in the event an Administrator has been
appointed as provided by R.C. § 735.271, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, may reject any and all bids. The contract shall be between
the municipality and the bidder, and the municipality shall pay the contract
price in cash. When a bonus is offered for completion of a contract prior to a
specified date, the legislative authority or Administrator, in the event an
Administrator has been appointed as provided in R.C. § 735.271, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, may exact a prorated penalty in
like sum for each day or delay beyond the specified date. When there is reason
to believe there is collusion or combination among bidders, the bids of those
concerned therein shall be rejected.
(R.C. § 731.15)
§ 32.027 ALTERATIONS OR MODIFICATIONS OF CONTRACT.
   When it becomes necessary in the opinion of the legislative authority or
Administrator, in the event an Administrator has been appointed as provided in
R.C. § 735.271, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, in the
prosecution of any work under contract, to make alterations or modifications in
the contract, the alterations or modifications shall be made only by the
legislative authority by resolution or by the Administrator in writing, in the
event an Administrator had been appointed as provided in R.C. § 735.271, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, but the resolution or written
modification shall be of no effect until the price to be paid for the work and
material, or both, under the altered or modified contract has been agreed upon
in writing and signed by the contractor, and by the Mayor or Administrator in
the event an Administrator has been appointed as provided in R.C. § 735.271, or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, on behalf of the municipality.
No contractor shall recover anything for work or material because of any
alteration or modification unless the contract is made as provided in this
section, nor shall the contractor recover for the work or material, or either,
more than the agreed price. The law relating to requiring bids and the awarding
of contracts for public buildings, so far as they apply, shall remain in
effect. A duplicate copy of each contract shall be filed in the office of the
Treasurer.
(R.C. § 731.16)
§ 32.028 CONTRACT RESTRICTIONS.
   The legislative authority shall not enter into any contract which is not to
go into full operation during the term for which all the members of the
legislative authority are elected.
(R.C. § 731.48)
§ 32.029 AWARD TO LOWEST RESPONSIVE AND RESPONSIBLE BIDDER.
   (A)   (1)   If the municipality is required by law or by an ordinance or
resolution adopted under division (C) of this section to award a contract to
the lowest responsive and responsible bidder, a bidder on the contract shall be
considered responsive if the bidder’s proposal responds to bid specifications
in all material respects and contains no irregularities or deviations from the
specifications which would affect the amount of the bid or otherwise give the
bidder a competitive advantage. The factors that the municipality shall
consider in determining whether a bidder on the contract is responsible include
the experience of the bidder, the bidder’s financial condition, conduct, and
performance on previous contracts, facilities, management skills, and ability
to execute the contract properly.
      (2)   For purposes of this division, the provision of a bid guaranty in
accordance with R.C. § 153.54(A)(1) and (B) issued by a surety licensed to do
business in this state is evidence of financial responsibility, but the
municipality may request additional financial information for review from an
apparent low bidder after it opens all submitted bids. The municipality shall
keep additional financial information it receives pursuant to a request under
this division confidential, except under proper order of a court. The
additional financial information is not a public record under R.C. § 149.43.
      (3)   An apparent low bidder found not to be responsive and responsible
shall be notified by the municipality of that finding and the reasons for it.
The notification shall be given in writing and either by certified mail or, if
the municipality has record of an internet identifier of record associated with
the bidder, by ordinary mail and by that internet identifier of record.
   (B)   Where the municipality has adopted an ordinance or resolution under
division (C) of this section and determines to award a contract to a bidder
other than the apparent low bidder or bidders for the construction,
reconstruction, improvement, enlargement, alteration, repair, painting, or
decoration of a public improvement, it shall meet with the apparent low bidder
or bidders upon a filing of a timely written protest. The protest must be
received within five days of the notification required in division (A) of this
section. No final award shall be made until the municipality either affirms or
reverses its earlier determination. Notwithstanding any other provision of the
Ohio Revised Code, the procedure described in this division is not subject to
R.C. Chapter 119.
   (C)   The municipality may, by ordinance or resolution, adopt a policy of
requiring each competitively bid contract it awards to be awarded to the lowest
responsive and responsible bidder in accordance with this section.
   (D)   As used in this section, INTERNET IDENTIFIER OF RECORD means an
electronic mail address, or any other designation used for self-identification
or routing in internet communication or posting, provided for the purpose of
receiving communication.
(R.C. § 9.312)
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 32.040 ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS AS EVIDENCE.
   Printed copies of the ordinances and resolutions of the municipality,
published under its authority, and transcripts of any resolutions or
ordinances, or of any act or proceeding of the municipality, recorded in any
book or entered on any minutes or journal kept under the direction of the
municipality, and certified by the Clerk, shall be received in evidence
throughout the state for any purpose for which the original books, ordinances,
minutes, or journals would be received.
(R.C. § 731.42)
§ 32.041 PASSAGE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The following procedures shall apply to the passage of ordinances and
resolutions of the municipality.
      (1)   Each ordinance and resolution shall be read by title only, provided
that the legislative authority may, by a majority vote of its members, require
any reading to be in full.
      (2)   Each ordinance or resolution shall be read on three different days,
provided that the legislative authority may dispense with this rule by a vote
of at least three-fourths of its members.
      (3)   The vote on the passage of each ordinance or resolution shall be
taken by yeas and nays and entered upon the journal.
      (4)   Each ordinance or resolution shall be passed, except as otherwise
provided by law, by a vote of at least a majority of all the members of the
legislative authority.
   (B)   Action by the legislative authority, not required by law to be by
ordinance or resolution, may be taken by motion approved by at least a majority
vote of the members present at the meeting when the action is taken.
(R.C. § 731.17)
§ 32.042 STYLE OF ORDINANCES.
   The style of all ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by the Village Council
of the Village of Waynesville, State of Ohio.”
(R.C. § 731.18)
§ 32.043 SUBJECT AND AMENDMENT OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   No ordinance or resolution shall contain more than one subject, which shall
be clearly expressed in its title. No ordinance or section thereof shall be
revived or amended unless the new ordinance contains the entire ordinance or
section revived or amended and unless the ordinance or section so amended is
repealed. Each such resolution and ordinance shall be adopted or passed by a
separate vote of the legislative authority and the yeas and nays shall be
entered upon the journal.
(R.C. § 731.19)
§ 32.044 AUTHENTICATION AND RECORDING OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   Ordinances and resolutions shall be authenticated by the signature of the
Presiding Officer and Clerk of Council of the municipality. A succinct summary
of ordinances of a general nature or providing for improvements shall be
published as provided by §§
32.045 and
32.047 before going into operation. No ordinance shall take effect until the
expiration of ten days after the first publication of the notice. As soon as a
resolution or ordinance is passed and signed, it shall be recorded by the Clerk
in a book furnished by the legislative authority for that purpose.
(R.C. § 731.20)
§ 32.045 PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS; PROOF OF PUBLICATION AND
CIRCULATION.
   (A)   (1)   A succinct summary of each municipal ordinance or resolution and
all statements, orders, proclamations, notices and reports required by law or
ordinance to be published, shall be published using at least one of the
following methods:
         (a)   In a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality;
         (b)   On the official public notice web site established under R.C. §
125.182;
         (c)   On the web site and social media account of the municipality.
      (2)   Proof of the publication shall be made by affidavit of the
proprietor of the newspaper or the operator of the official public notice web
site, as applicable, and shall be filed with the Clerk of the legislative
authority.
   (B)   The publication shall contain notice that the complete text of each
such ordinance or resolution may be obtained or viewed at the office of the
Clerk of the legislative authority and may be viewed at any other location
designated by the legislative authority. The legal counsel of the municipality
shall review the summary of an ordinance or resolution published under this
section before forwarding it to the Clerk for publication, to ensure that the
summary is legally accurate and sufficient.
   (C)   Upon publication of a summary of an ordinance or resolution in
accordance with this section, the Clerk of the legislative authority shall
supply a copy of the complete text of each such ordinance or resolution to any
person, upon request, and may charge a reasonable fee, set by the legislative
authority, for each copy supplied. The Clerk shall post a copy of the text at
the Clerk’s office and at every other location designated by the legislative
authority.
(R.C. § 731.21)
§ 32.046 NOTICE FOR PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE VILLAGE CHARTER.
   In accordance with Section 9 of Article XVIII of the Ohio Constitution,
notice of proposed amendments to the Village Charter, if and when one is
adopted by and for the municipality, shall be given in one of the following
ways.
   (A)   Not less than 30 days prior to the election at which the amendment is
to be submitted to the electors, the Clerk of the municipality shall mail a
copy of the proposed Charter amendment to each elector whose name appears upon
the poll or registration books of the last regular or general election held
therein.
   (B)   The full text of the proposed Charter amendment shall be published
once a week for not less than two consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general
circulation in the municipality or as provided in R.C. § 7.16, with the first
publication being at least 15 days prior to the election at which the amendment
is to be submitted to the electors.
(R.C. § 731.211)
§ 32.047 TIMES OF PUBLICATION REQUIRED.
   The publication required in §
32.045 shall be for the following times:
   (A)   Summaries of ordinances or resolutions, and proclamations of
elections, once a week for two consecutive weeks;
   (B)   Notices, not less than two nor more than four consecutive weeks; and
   (C)   All other matters shall be published once.
(R.C. § 731.22)
§ 32.048 PUBLICATION AND CERTIFICATION OF ORDINANCES IN BOOK FORM.
   (A)   When ordinances are revised, codified, rearranged, published in book
form and certified as correct by the Clerk of the legislative authority and the
Mayor, such publication shall be a sufficient publication, and the ordinances
so published, under appropriate titles, chapters and sections, shall be held
the same in law as though they had been published in accordance with §
32.045. A new ordinance so published in book form, a summary of which has not
been published as required by §§
32.045 and
32.047 and which contains entirely new matter, shall be published as required
by those sections. If the revision or codification is made by the municipality
and contains new matter, it shall be a sufficient publication of the
codification, including the new matter, to publish, in the manner required by
such sections, a notice of the enactment of the codifying ordinance, containing
the title of the ordinance and a summary of the new matters covered by it. This
revision and codification may be made under appropriate titles, chapters and
sections and in one ordinance containing one or more subjects.
   (B)   Except as provided by this section, a succinct summary of all
ordinances, including emergency ordinances, shall be published in accordance
with §
32.045.
(R.C. § 731.23)
§ 32.049 ADOPTION OF TECHNICAL ORDINANCES AND CODES.
   (A)   The legislative authority may adopt standard ordinances and codes,
prepared and promulgated by the state, or any department, board or other agency
thereof, or any code prepared and promulgated by a public or private
organization which publishes a model or standard code, including, but not
limited to, codes and regulations pertaining to fire, fire hazards, fire
prevention, plumbing, electricity, buildings, refrigeration machinery, piping,
boilers, heating or air conditioning, by incorporation by reference.
   (B)   The publication required by §§
32.045 through
32.050 shall clearly identify the code, shall state the purpose of the code,
shall state that a complete copy of the code is on file with the Clerk of the
legislative authority for inspection by the public and also on file in the
County Law Library and that the Clerk has copies available for distribution to
the public at cost. If the legislative authority amends or deletes any
provision of the code, the publication shall contain a brief summary of the
deletion or amendment.
   (C)   If the agency which originally promulgated or published the code
thereafter amends the code, the legislative authority may adopt such amendment
or change by incorporation by reference in an amending ordinance by the same
procedure as required for the adoption of the original code, without the
necessity of setting forth in full in the amending ordinance the provisions of
the original ordinance or code.
   (D)   Ordinances or codes adopted by the municipality under this section
shall be deemed to be a full and complete compliance with §§
32.045 through
32.051, and no other publication is necessary.
(R.C. § 731.231)
§ 32.050 CERTIFICATE OF CLERK AS TO PUBLICATION.
   Immediately after the expiration of the period of publication of summaries
of ordinances required by §
32.047, the Clerk of the legislative authority shall enter on the record of
ordinances, in a blank to be left for that purpose under the recorded
ordinance, a certificate stating in which manner and on what dates the
publication was made, and shall sign the Clerk's name thereto officially. Such
certificate shall be prima facie evidence that legal publication of the summary
of the ordinance was made.
(R.C. § 731.24)
§ 32.051 EFFECT OF NOT MAKING PUBLICATION.
   It is a sufficient defense to any suit or prosecution under an ordinance, to
show that no publication or posting was made as required by §§
32.045 through
32.050.
(R.C. § 731.26)
§ 32.052 ORDINANCES PROVIDING FOR APPROPRIATIONS OR STREET IMPROVEMENTS;
EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   Ordinances or other measures providing for appropriations for the current
expenses of the municipality, or for street improvements petitioned for by the
owners of a majority of the feet front of the property benefitted and to be
especially assessed for the cost thereof, and emergency ordinances or measures
necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, or safety
in the municipality, shall go into immediate effect. Such emergency ordinances
or measures must, upon a yea and nay vote, receive a two-thirds vote of all the
members elected to the legislative authority, and the reasons for the necessity
shall be set forth in one section of the ordinance or other measure.
(R.C. § 731.30)
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
§ 32.070 INITIATIVE PETITIONS.
   (A)   Ordinances and other measures providing for the exercise of any powers
of government granted by the Constitution or delegated to the municipality by
the General Assembly may be proposed by initiative petition. Such initiative
petition must contain the signatures of not less than 10% of the number of
electors who voted for Governor at the most recent general election for the
office of Governor in the municipality.
   (B)   When a petition is filed with the Clerk, signed by the required number
of electors proposing an ordinance or other measure, the Clerk shall, after ten
days, transmit a certified copy of the text of the proposed ordinance or
measure to the Board of Elections. The Clerk shall transmit the petition to the
Board, together with the certified copy of the proposed ordinance or other
measure. The Board shall examine all signatures on the petition to determine
the number of electors of the municipality who signed the petition. The Board
shall return the petition to the Clerk within ten days after receiving it,
together with a statement attesting to the number of such electors who signed
the petition.
   (C)   The Board shall submit the proposed ordinance or measure for the
approval or rejection of the electors of the municipality at the next general
election occurring subsequent to 90 days after the Clerk certifies the
sufficiency and validity of the initiative petition to the Board. No ordinance
or other measure proposed by initiative petition and approved by a majority of
the electors voting upon the measure in the municipality shall be subject to
the veto of the Mayor.
   (D)   As used in this section, CERTIFIED COPY means a copy containing a
written statement attesting that it is a true and exact reproduction of the
original proposed ordinance or other measure.
(R.C. § 731.28)
§ 32.071 REFERENDUM PETITIONS.
   (A)   Any ordinance or other measure passed by the legislative authority
shall be subject to the referendum except as provided in §
32.072. No ordinance or other measure shall go into effect until 30 days after
it is passed by the legislative authority, except as provided in §
32.072.
   (B)   When a petition, signed by 10% of the number of electors who voted for
Governor at the most recent general election for the office of Governor in the
municipality, is filed with the Clerk within 30 days after any ordinance or
other measure is filed with the Mayor or passed by the legislative authority,
or, if the Mayor has vetoed the ordinance or any measure and returned it to the
legislative authority, the petition may be filed within 30 days after the
legislative authority has passed the ordinance or measure over the veto,
ordering that the ordinance or measure be submitted to the electors of the
municipality for their approval or rejection, the Clerk shall, after ten days,
and not later than 4:00 p.m. of the ninetieth day before the day of election,
transmit a certified copy of the text of the ordinance or measure to the Board
of Elections. The Clerk shall transmit the petition to the Board, together with
the certified copy of the ordinance or measure. The Board shall examine all
signatures on the petition to determine the number of electors of the
municipality who signed the petition. The Board shall return the petition to
the Clerk within ten days after receiving it, together with a statement
attesting to the number of such electors who signed the petition. The Board
shall submit the ordinance or measure to the electors of the municipality, for
their approval or rejection, at the next general election occurring subsequent
to 90 days after the Clerk certifies the sufficiency and validity of the
petition to the Board.
   (C)   No such ordinance or measure shall go into effect until approved by
the majority of those voting upon it. The provisions of this subchapter do not
prevent the municipality, after the passage of any ordinance or other measure,
from proceeding at once to give any notice or make any publication required by
the ordinance or other measure.
   (D)   As used in this section, CERTIFIED COPY means a copy containing a
written statement attesting that it is a true and exact reproduction of the
original ordinance or other measure.
(R.C. § 731.29)
§ 32.072 MORE THAN ONE ORDINANCE REQUIRED; APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   Whenever the legislative authority is required to pass more than one
ordinance or other measure to complete the legislation necessary to make and
pay for any public improvement, this subchapter shall apply only to the first
ordinance or other measure required to be passed and not to any subsequent
ordinances and other measures relating thereto. Ordinances or other measures
providing for appropriations for the current expenses of the municipality, or
for street improvements petitioned for by the owners of a majority of the feet
front of the property benefitted and to be especially assessed for the cost
thereof, and emergency ordinances or measures necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety in the municipality, shall
go into immediate effect. Such emergency ordinances or measures must, upon a
yea and nay vote, receive a two-thirds vote of all the members elected to the
legislative authority, and the reasons for the necessity shall be set forth in
one section of the ordinance or other measure.
(R.C. § 731.30)
§ 32.073 PRESENTATION OF PETITIONS.
   (A)   Any initiative or referendum petition may be presented in separate
parts, but each part of any initiative petition shall contain a full and
correct copy of the title and text of the proposed ordinance or other measure,
and each part of any referendum petition shall contain the number and a full
and correct copy of the title of the ordinance or other measure sought to be
referred. Each signer of any such petition must be an elector of the
municipality in which the election, upon the ordinance or measure proposed by
the initiative petition, or the ordinance or measure referred to by the
referendum petition, is to be held. Petitions shall be governed in all other
respects by the rules set forth in R.C. § 3501.38. In determining the validity
of any such petition, all signatures which are found to be irregular shall be
rejected, but no petition shall be declared invalid in its entirety when one or
more signatures are found to be invalid, except when the number of valid
signatures is found to be less than the total number required by this section.
   (B)   The petitions and signatures upon such petitions shall be prima facie
presumed to be in all respects sufficient. No ordinance or other measure
submitted to the electors of the municipality, and receiving an affirmative
majority of the votes cast thereon, shall be held ineffective or void on
account of the insufficiency of the petitions by which the submission of the
ordinance or measure was procured, nor shall the rejection, by a majority of
the votes cast thereon, of any ordinance or other measure submitted to the
electors of the municipality, be held invalid for the insufficiency.
   (C)   Ordinances proposed by initiative petition and referendums receiving
an affirmative majority of the votes cast thereon, shall become effective on
the fifth day after the day on which the Board of Elections certifies the
official vote on that question.
(R.C. § 731.31)
§ 32.074 COPY OF PROPOSED ORDINANCE OR MEASURE TO BE FILED WITH CLERK.
   (A)   Whoever seeks to propose an ordinance or measure in the municipality
by initiative petition or files a referendum petition against any ordinance or
measure shall, before circulating the petition, file a certified copy of the
proposed ordinance or measure with the Clerk.
   (B)   As used in this section, CERTIFIED COPY means a copy containing a
written statement attesting that it is a true and exact reproduction of the
original proposed ordinance or measure or of the original ordinance or measure.
(R.C. § 731.32)
§ 32.075 WORDS TO BE PRINTED IN RED.
   At the top of each part of the petition mentioned in §
32.074, the following words shall be printed in red:
   NOTICE
   Whoever knowingly signs this petition more than once, signs a name other
than his or her own, or signs when not a legal voter is liable to prosecution.
(R.C. § 731.33)
§ 32.076 DESIGNATION OF COMMITTEE FILING PETITION; PUBLIC INSPECTION OF
PETITIONS; ORDINANCES PASSED OR REPEALED PRIOR TO ELECTION.
   (A)   The petitioners may designate in any initiative or referendum petition
a committee of not less than three of their number, who shall be regarded as
filing the petition.
   (B)   After a petition has been filed with the Clerk, it shall be kept open
for public inspection for ten days.
   (C)   If, after a petition proposing an ordinance or other measure has been
filed with the Clerk, the proposed ordinance or other measure, or a substitute
for the proposed ordinance or measure approved by the committee, is passed by
the legislative authority, the majority of the committee shall notify the Board
of Elections in writing and the proposed ordinance or measure shall not be
submitted to a vote of the electors.
   (D)   If, after a verified referendum petition has been filed against any
ordinance or measure, the legislative authority repeals the ordinance or
measure, or it is held to be invalid, the Board shall not submit the ordinance
or measure to a vote of the electors.
(R.C. § 731.34)
§ 32.077 ITEMIZED STATEMENT BY CIRCULATOR OF PETITION.
   (A)   The circulator of an initiative or referendum petition, or his or her
agent, shall, within five days after the petition is filed with the Clerk, file
an itemized statement, made under penalty of election falsification, showing in
detail:
      (1)   All monies or things of value paid, given, or promised for
circulating the petition;
      (2)   Full names and addresses of all persons to whom the payments or
promises were made;
      (3)   Full names and addresses of all persons who contributed anything of
value to be used in circulating such petitions; and
      (4)   Time spent and salaries earned while circulating or soliciting
signatures to petitions by persons who were regular salaried employees of some
person who authorized them to solicit signatures for or circulate the petition
as a part of their regular duties.
   (B)   The statement provided for in division (A) of this section shall not
be required from persons who take no other part in circulating a petition than
signing declarations to parts of the petition and soliciting signatures to
them.
   (C)   The statement shall be open to public inspection for a period of one
year.
(R.C. 731.35)
§ 32.078 PROHIBITED PRACTICES RELATIVE TO PETITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall, directly or indirectly:
      (1)   Willfully misrepresent the contents of any initiative or referendum
petition;
      (2)   Pay or offer to pay any elector anything of value for signing an
initiative or referendum petition;
      (3)   Promise to help another person to obtain appointment to any office
provided for by the Constitution or laws of the state or by the ordinances of
any municipal corporation, or to any position or employment in the service of
the state or any political subdivision thereof, as a consideration for
obtaining signatures to an initiative or referendum petition;
      (4)   Obtain signatures to any initiative or referendum petition as a
consideration for the assistance or promise of assistance of another person in
securing an appointment to any office or position provided for by the
Constitution or laws of the state or by the ordinances of any municipal
corporation therein, or employment in the service of the state or any
subdivision thereof;
      (5)   Alter, add to, or erase any signature or name on the parts of a
petition after the parts have been filed with the Clerk of the municipality; or
      (6)   Fail to file the sworn itemized statement required by §
32.077.
(R.C. § 731.36)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500.
(R.C. § 731.99(A))
§ 32.079 ACCEPTING PREMIUMS FOR SIGNING.
   (A)   No person shall accept anything of value for signing an initiative or
referendum petition.
(R.C. § 731.38)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $25.
(R.C. § 731.99(C))
§ 32.080 THREATS IN SECURING SIGNATURES.
   (A)   No person shall, directly or indirectly, by intimidation or threats,
influence or seek to influence any person to sign or abstain from signing, or
to solicit signatures to or abstain from soliciting signatures to, an
initiative or referendum petition.
(R.C. § 731.40)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 731.99(B))
§ 32.081 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER IF CHARTER ADOPTED.
   This subchapter will not apply to the municipality if and when it adopts its
own Charter containing an initiative and referendum provision for its own
ordinances and other legislative measures.
(R.C. § 731.41)
CHAPTER 33: JUDICIAL AUTHORITY
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Bond Schedule and Schedule of Costs for Magistrate’s Court adopted
   
33.02   Policies and procedures for Mayor’s Court
   
33.03   Change funds
Contempt of Court
   
33.20   Summary punishment for contempt
   
33.21   Acts in contempt of court
   
33.22   Hearing
   
33.23   Contempt action for failure to pay support, failure to comply, or
interference with a visitation order; summons
   
33.24   Right of accused to bail
   
33.25   Hearing on contempt; penalties; support orders; failure to withhold or
deduct money pursuant to support order
   
33.26   Imprisonment until order obeyed
   
33.27   Proceedings when party released on bail fails to appear
   
33.28   Release of prisoner committed for contempt
   
33.29   Judgment final
   
33.30   Alternative remedy
Statutory reference:
   Contracts with Public Defender Commissions, see O.A.C. § 120-1-09
   Notification to Registrar of Motor Vehicles regarding arrest warrants;
effect on certificates of registration and driver’s licenses, see R.C. §§
4503.13 and 4507.091
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 BOND SCHEDULE AND SCHEDULE OF COSTS FOR MAGISTRATE’S COURT ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Magistrate’s Court Bond Schedule, as may be amended from time to
time, is hereby adopted by reference and shall be treated as if set forth in
full herein.
   (B)   The Schedule of Costs for the Magistrate’s Court, as may be amended
from time to time, is hereby adopted by reference and shall be treated as if
set forth in full herein.
(Ord. 95-190, passed 12-4-1995; Ord. 96-124, passed 7-15-1996; Ord. 2009-042,
passed 11-2-2009)
§ 33.02 POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR MAYOR’S COURT.
   The policies and procedures for the village Mayor’s Court, as attached to
the resolution codified herein as exhibit “A”, are hereby adopted by the
Village Council.
(Res. 2014-005, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 33.03 CHANGE FUNDS.
   (A)   The Village Council hereby authorizes the existence and use of change
funds for the village Mayor’s Court and the village Utility Billing Division.
   (B)   The Finance Director is hereby authorized to establish any necessary
policies and procedures for the continued existence and use of the change
funds.
(Res. 2013-009, passed 3-3-2013)
CONTEMPT OF COURT
§ 33.20 SUMMARY PUNISHMENT FOR CONTEMPT.
   A court, or judge at chambers, may summarily punish a person guilty of
misbehavior in the presence of or so near the court or judge as to obstruct the
administration of justice.
(R.C. § 2705.01)
§ 33.21 ACTS IN CONTEMPT OF COURT.
   (A)   A person guilty of any of the following acts may be punished for
contempt:
      (1)   Disobedience of, or resistance to, a lawful writ, process, order,
rule, judgment, or command of a court or officer;
      (2)   Misbehavior of an officer of the court in the performance of
official duties, or in official transactions;
      (3)   A failure to obey a subpoena duly served, or a refusal to be sworn
or to answer as a witness, when lawfully required;
      (4)   The rescue or attempted rescue of a person or of property in the
custody of an officer by virtue of an order or process of court held by the
officer;
      (5)   A failure upon the part of a person recognized to appear as a
witness in a court to appear in compliance with the terms of the person’s
recognizance;
      (6)   A failure to comply with an order issued pursuant to R.C. §§
3109.19 or 3111.81;
      (7)   A failure to obey a subpoena issued by the Department of Job and
Family Services, the Department of Children and Youth, or a child support
enforcement agency pursuant to R.C. § 5101.37; or
      (8)   A willful failure to submit to genetic testing, or a willful
failure to submit a child to genetic testing, as required by an order for
genetic testing issued under R.C. § 3111.41.
(R.C. § 2705.02)
   (B)   If a person summoned to appear as provided in R.C. § 2935.10(B) fails
to appear without just cause and personal service of the summons was had upon
the person, he or she may be found guilty of contempt of court, and may be
fined not to exceed $20 for such contempt. Upon failure to appear, the court or
magistrate may forthwith issue a warrant for his or her arrest.
(R.C. § 2935.11)
§ 33.22 HEARING.
   In cases under §
33.21, a charge in writing shall be filed with the Clerk of the Court, an entry
thereof made upon the journal, and an opportunity given to the accused to be
heard, by himself, herself, or counsel. This section does not prevent the court
from issuing process to bring the accused into court, or from holding him or
her in custody pending such proceedings.
(R.C. § 2705.03)
§ 33.23 CONTEMPT ACTION FOR FAILURE TO PAY SUPPORT, FAILURE TO COMPLY, OR
INTERFERENCE WITH A VISITATION ORDER; SUMMONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, TITLE IV-D CASE has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 3125.01.
   (B)   (1)   Any party who has a legal claim to any support ordered for a
child, spouse, or former spouse may initiate a contempt action for failure to
pay the support. In Title IV-D cases, the contempt action for failure to pay
support also may be initiated by an attorney retained by the party who has the
legal claim, the prosecuting attorney, or an attorney of the Department of Job
and Family Services or the child support enforcement agency.
      (2)   Any parent who is granted parenting time rights under a parenting
time order or decree issued pursuant to R.C. §§ 3109.051 or 3109.12, any person
who is granted visitation rights under a visitation order or decree issued
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3109.051, 3109.11, or 3109.12 or pursuant to any other
provision of the Ohio Revised Code, or any other person who is subject to any
parenting time or visitation order or decree, may initiate a contempt action
for the failure to comply with, or an interference with, the order or decree.
   (C)   In any contempt action initiated pursuant to division (B) of this
section, the accused shall appear upon the summons and order to appear that is
issued by the court. The summons shall include all of the following:
      (1)   Notice that failure to appear may result in the issuance of an
order of arrest, and in cases involving alleged failure to pay support, the
issuance of an order for the payment of support by withholding an amount from
the personal earnings of the accused or by withholding or deducting an amount
from some other asset of the accused;
      (2)   Notice that the accused has a right to counsel, and that if
indigent, the accused must apply for a public defender or court appointed
counsel within three business days after receipt of the summons;
      (3)   Notice that the court may refuse to grant a continuance at the time
of the hearing for the purposes of the accused obtaining counsel if the accused
fails to make a good faith effort to retain counsel or to obtain a public
defender;
      (4)   Notice of the potential penalties that could be imposed upon the
accused if the accused is found guilty of contempt for failure to pay support
or for a failure to comply with, or an interference with, a parenting time or
visitation order or decree; and
      (5)   Notice that the court may grant limited driving privileges under
R.C. § 4510.021 pursuant to a request made by the accused, if the driver’s
license was suspended based on a notice issued pursuant to R.C. § 3123.54 by
the child support enforcement agency and if the request is accompanied by a
recent non-certified copy of a driver’s abstract from the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles.
   (D)   If the accused is served as required by the Rules of Civil Procedure
or by any special statutory proceedings that are relevant to the case, the
court may order the attachment of the person of the accused upon failure to
appear as ordered by the court.
   (E)   (1)   The imposition of any penalty under §
33.25 shall not eliminate any obligation of the accused to pay any past,
present, or future support obligation or any obligation of the accused to
comply with or refrain from interfering with the parenting time or visitation
order or decree.
      (2)   The court shall have jurisdiction to make a finding of contempt for
the failure to pay support and to impose the penalties set forth in §
33.25 in all cases in which past due support is at issue even if the duty to
pay support has terminated, and shall have jurisdiction to make a finding of
contempt for a failure to comply with, or an interference with, a parenting
time or visitation order or decree and to impose the penalties set forth in §
33.25 in all cases in which the failure or interference is at issue even if the
parenting time or visitation order or decree is no longer in effect.
(R.C. § 2705.031)
§ 33.24 RIGHT OF ACCUSED TO BAIL.
   (A)   In proceedings under §
33.21, if the writ is not returnable forthwith, the court may fix the amount of
a bond to be given by the accused, with surety to the satisfaction of the
sheriff. Upon the return of a writ, when it is not convenient to hear the
charge without delay, the court shall fix the amount of a bond to be given,
with surety to the satisfaction of the Clerk of the Court, for the appearance
of the accused to answer the charge.
   (B)   On the execution of such bond, the accused shall be released from
custody.
(R.C. § 2705.04)
§ 33.25 HEARING ON CONTEMPT; PENALTIES; SUPPORT ORDERS; FAILURE TO WITHHOLD OR
DEDUCT MONEY PURSUANT TO SUPPORT ORDER.
   (A)   In all contempt proceedings, the court shall conduct a hearing. At the
hearing, the court shall investigate the charge and hear any answer or
testimony that the accused makes or offers and shall determine whether the
accused is guilty of the contempt charge. If the accused is found guilty, the
court may impose any of the following penalties:
      (1)   For a first offense, a fine of not more than $250, a definite term
of imprisonment of not more than 30 days in jail, or both;
      (2)   For a second offense, a fine of not more than $500, a definite term
of imprisonment of not more than 60 days in jail, or both; and
      (3)   For a third or subsequent offense, a fine of not more than $1,000,
a definite term of imprisonment of not more than 90 days in jail, or both.
   (B)   In all contempt proceedings initiated pursuant to §
33.23 against an employer, the Bureau of Workers’ Compensation, an employer
that is paying workers’ compensation benefits, a board, board of trustees, or
other governing entity of a retirement system, person paying or distributing
income to an obligor under a support order, or financial institution that is
ordered to withhold or deduct an amount of money from the income or other
assets of a person required to pay support and that fails to withhold or deduct
the amount of money as ordered by the support order, the court may also require
the employer, the Bureau of Workers’ Compensation, an employer that is paying
workers’ compensation benefits, a board, board of trustees, or other governing
entity of a retirement system, person paying or distributing income to an
obligor under a support order, or financial institution to pay the accumulated
support arrearages.
(R.C. § 2705.05)
§ 33.26 IMPRISONMENT UNTIL ORDER OBEYED.
   When the contempt consists of the omission to do an act which the accused
yet can perform, he or she may be imprisoned until he or she performs it.
(R.C. § 2705.06)
§ 33.27 PROCEEDINGS WHEN PARTY RELEASED ON BAIL FAILS TO APPEAR.
   If the party released on bail under §
33.24 fails to appear upon the day named, the court may issue another order or
arrest, or order the bond for his or her appearance to be prosecuted, or both.
If the bond is prosecuted, the measure of damages in the action is the extent
of loss or injury sustained by the aggrieved party by reason of the misconduct
for which the contempt was prosecuted, and the costs of the proceeding. Such
recovery is for the benefit of the party injured.
(R.C. § 2705.07)
§ 33.28 RELEASE OF PRISONER COMMITTED FOR CONTEMPT.
   When a person is committed to jail for contempt, the court or judge who made
the order may discharge him or her from imprisonment when it appears that the
public interest will not suffer thereby.
(R.C. § 2705.08)
§ 33.29 JUDGMENT FINAL.
   The judgment and orders of a court or officer made in cases of contempt may
be reviewed on appeal. Appeal proceedings shall not suspend execution of the
order or judgment until the person in contempt files a bond in the court
rendering the judgment, or in the court or before the officer making the order,
payable to the state, with sureties to the acceptance of the clerk of that
court, in an amount fixed by the reviewing court, or a judge thereof,
conditioned that if judgment is rendered against the person, he or she will
abide by and perform the order or judgment.
(R.C. § 2705.09)
§ 33.30 ALTERNATIVE REMEDY.
   This subchapter furnishes a remedy in cases not provided for by another
section of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 2705.10)
CHAPTER 34: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Establishment of police force
   
34.02   Marshal and Police Chief synonymous
   
34.03   Appointment of Marshal
   
34.04   Strategic Plan adopted
   
34.041   Policies and Procedures Manual adopted
   
34.05   Deputy marshals and police officers
   
34.06   Offenses affecting employment of law enforcement officers; probationary
period; final appointment
   
34.07   Removal proceedings; suspension; appeals
   
34.08   General powers
   
34.09   Powers and duties of Marshal
   
34.10   Disposition of fines and penalties
   
34.11   Property recovered by police
   
34.12   Disposition to claimant
   
34.13   Sale of unclaimed property; disposition of proceeds
   
34.14   Expenses of storage and sale; notice
   
34.15   Contracts for police protection; nonresident service without contract
   
34.16   Peace officer administering oaths; acknowledging complaints, summonses,
affidavits, and returns of court orders
   
34.17   Use of dog in drug cases
Auxiliary Officer Program
   
34.30   Auxiliary police units generally
   
34.31   Auxiliary Officer Program
   
34.32   Auxiliary officers
   
34.33   Requirements and selection of auxiliary officers
Cross-reference:
   Assault of police dog or horse, see §
136.15
   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property held by Police Department,
see §
130.17
   Offenses against justice and administration, see
Chapter 136
   Traffic Code, see Title VII
Statutory reference:
   Canine units:
      Registration, see R.C. § 955.012
      Regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter 109:2-7
   Motor vehicle pursuit policies to be adopted by municipality, see R.C. §
2935.031
   Peace officer training, see O.A.C. Chapter 109:2-1
   Power of municipality to establish a police department, see R.C. § 715.05
   Purchase of police dogs or horses by law enforcement officers, see R.C. §
9.62
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF POLICE FORCE.
   The village shall have its own police force with its own Police Chief,
deputies, auxiliary (reserve officer force), and other necessary appointees at
the earliest convenient time.
(Ord. 560, passed 10-1-1979; Ord. 99-112, passed 3-15-1999)
§ 34.02 MARSHAL AND POLICE CHIEF SYNONYMOUS.
   The designation “Marshal”, wherever used in this code, is defined to include
the term “Police Chief”, and the designation “Police Chief”, wherever used in
this code, is defined to include the term “Marshal”.
§ 34.03 APPOINTMENT OF MARSHAL.
   (A)   Each municipality shall have a Marshal or designated Police Chief,
appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the legislative
authority, who need not be a resident of the municipality at the time of
appointment, but shall become a resident thereof within six months after
appointment by the Mayor and confirmation by the legislative authority, unless
the residence requirement is waived by ordinance, and who shall continue in
office until removed therefrom as provided by §
34.06.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall receive an appointment under this section
unless, not more than 60 days prior to receiving an appointment, the person has
passed a physical examination given by a licensed physician, a physician
assistant, a clinical nurse specialist, a certified nurse practitioner, or a
certified nurse-midwife, showing that the person meets the physical
requirements necessary to perform the duties of Marshal as established by the
legislative authority.
      (2)   The appointing authority shall, prior to making any appointment,
file with the Ohio Police and Fire Pension Fund a copy of the report or
findings of this licensed physician, physician assistant, clinical nurse
specialist, certified nurse practitioner, or certified nurse-midwife. The
professional fee for the physical examination shall be paid for by the
legislative authority.
(R.C. § 737.15)
§ 34.04 STRATEGIC PLAN ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Strategic Plan for the Waynesville Police Department, submitted by
the Planning Task Force, is hereby adopted by reference and shall be treated as
if set forth in full herein.
   (B)   The purpose of the adopted Strategic Plan is to bring order and advice
to the Police Department and to allow for the best possible Police Department.
(Ord. 98-137, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 34.041 POLICIES AND PROCEDURES MANUAL ADOPTED.
   The Policies and Procedures Manual for the village Police Department,
developed by the Police Department in conjunction with the Village Manager, the
Police Committee, and the Law Director, is hereby adopted by reference and
shall be treated as if set forth in full herein.
(Ord. 2000-045, passed 8-7-2000)
§ 34.05 DEPUTY MARSHALS AND POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall, when provided for by the legislative authority, and
subject to its confirmation, appoint all deputy marshals, police officers,
night guards, and special police officers. All officers shall continue in
office until removed therefrom for the cause and in the manner provided by §
34.07.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall receive an appointment under this section unless
the person has, not more than 60 days prior to receiving appointment, passed a
physical examination given by a licensed physician, a physician assistant, a
clinical nurse specialist, a certified nurse practitioner, or a certified
nurse-midwife, showing that the person meets the physical requirements
necessary to perform the duties of the position to which the person is to be
appointed as established by the legislative authority.
      (2)   The appointing authority shall, prior to making any appointment,
file with the Ohio Police and Fire Pension Fund a copy of the report or
findings of the licensed physician, physician assistant, clinical nurse
specialist, certified nurse practitioner, or certified nurse-midwife. The
professional fee for the physical examination shall be paid for by the
legislative authority.
(R.C. § 737.16)
§ 34.06 OFFENSES AFFECTING EMPLOYMENT OF LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS; PROBATIONARY
PERIOD; FINAL APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   Offenses affecting employment.
      (1)   As used in this section, FELONY has the same meaning as in R.C. §
109.511.
      (2)   (a)   The Mayor shall not appoint a person as a marshal, a deputy
marshal, a police officer, a night security officer, a special police officer,
or an auxiliary police officer on a permanent basis, on a temporary basis, for
a probationary term, or on other than a permanent basis if the person
previously has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a felony.
         (b)   1.   The Mayor shall terminate the employment of a marshal,
deputy marshal, police officer, night security officer, special police officer,
or auxiliary police officer who does either of the following: pleads guilty to
a felony; or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor pursuant to a negotiated plea
agreement as provided in R.C. § 2929.43(D) in which the marshal, deputy
marshal, police officer, night security officer, special police officer, or
auxiliary police officer agrees to surrender the certificate awarded to that
person under R.C. § 109.77.
            2.   The Mayor shall suspend from employment a marshal, deputy
marshal, police officer, night security officer, special police officer, or
auxiliary police officer who is convicted, after trial, of a felony. If the
marshal, deputy marshal, police officer, night security officer, special police
officer, or auxiliary police officer files an appeal from that conviction and
the conviction is upheld by the highest court to which the appeal is taken or
if that person does not file a timely appeal, the Mayor shall terminate that
person’s employment. If the marshal, deputy marshal, police officer, night
security officer, special police officer, or auxiliary police officer files an
appeal that results in that person’s acquittal of the felony or conviction of a
misdemeanor, or in the dismissal of the felony charge against that person, the
Mayor shall reinstate that person. A marshal, deputy marshal, police officer,
night security officer, special police officer, or auxiliary police officer who
is reinstated under this division shall not receive any back pay unless that
person’s conviction of the felony was reversed on appeal, or the felony charge
was dismissed, because the court found insufficient evidence to convict that
person of the felony.
         (c)   This division (A)(2) does not apply regarding an offense that
was committed prior to January 1, 1997.
         (d)   The suspension from employment, or the termination of the
employment, of a marshal, deputy marshal, police officer, night security
officer, special police officer, or auxiliary police officer under division (A)
(2)(b) of this section shall be in accordance with R.C. Chapter 119.
(R.C. § 737.162)
   (B)   Probationary period; final appointment. Any appointments made shall be
for a probationary period of six months continuous service, and no appointments
shall be deemed finally made until the appointee has satisfactorily served his
or her probationary period. At the end of the probationary period, the Mayor
shall transmit to the legislative authority a record of the employee’s service
with his or her recommendations thereon; and with the concurrence of the
legislative authority, the Mayor may remove or finally appoint the employee.
(R.C. § 737.17)
§ 34.07 REMOVAL PROCEEDINGS; SUSPENSION; APPEALS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
34.05(A), if the Mayor has reason to believe that a duly appointed marshal of
the municipality has been guilty of incompetency, inefficiency, dishonesty,
drunkenness, immoral conduct, insubordination, discourteous treatment of the
public, neglect of duty, or any other acts of misfeasance, malfeasance, or
nonfeasance in the performance of his or her official duty, the Mayor shall
file with the legislative authority written charges against the person, setting
forth in detail the reason therefor and immediately shall serve a true copy
thereof upon the person against whom they are made.
   (B)   Charges filed under this section shall be heard at the next regular
meeting of the legislative authority occurring not less than five days after
the date the charges have been served on the person against whom they are made.
The person against whom charges are filed may appear in person and by counsel
at the hearing, examine all witnesses, and answer all charges against him or
her.
   (C)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the legislative authority may
dismiss the charges, suspend the accused from office for not more than 60 days,
or remove the accused from office.
   (D)   Action of the legislative authority removing or suspending the accused
from office shall require the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all elected
members.
   (E)   In the case of removal from office, the person so removed may appeal
on questions of law and fact the decision of the legislative authority to the
Court of Common Pleas. The person shall take the appeal within ten days from
the date of the finding of the legislative authority.
(R.C. § 737.171)
§ 34.08 GENERAL POWERS.
   (A)   The Marshal shall be the peace officer of the municipality and the
executive head, under the Mayor, of the police force. The Marshal, and the
deputy marshals, police officers, or night security officers under him or her
shall have the powers conferred by law upon police officers in all
municipalities of the state, and other powers not inconsistent with the nature
of their offices as are conferred by ordinance.
   (B)   A marshal, deputy marshal, or police officer of a municipality may
participate, as the director of an organized crime task force established under
R.C. § 177.02 or as a member of the investigatory staff of such a task force,
in an investigation of organized criminal activity in any counties in this
state under R.C. §§ 177.01 through 177.03.
(R.C. § 737.18)
§ 34.09 POWERS AND DUTIES OF MARSHAL.
   (A)   The Marshal has exclusive authority over the stationing and transfer
of all deputies, officers, and employees within the Police Department under the
general rules that the Mayor prescribes.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in §
34.05(A), the Marshal has the exclusive right to suspend any of the deputies,
officers, or employees in the Police Department who are under the management
and control of the Marshal for incompetence, gross neglect of duty, gross
immorality, habitual drunkenness, failure to obey orders given them by the
proper authority, or for any other reasonable or just cause.
      (2)   If an employee is suspended under this section, the Marshal
immediately shall certify this fact in writing, together with the cause for the
suspension, to the Mayor and immediately shall serve a true copy of the charge
upon the person against whom they are made. Within five days after receiving
this certification, the Mayor shall inquire into the cause of the suspension
and shall render a judgment on it. If the Mayor sustains the charges, the
judgment of the Mayor may be for the person’s suspension, reduction in rank, or
removal from the Department.
      (3)   Suspensions of more than three days, reduction in rank, or removal
from the department under this section may be appealed to the legislative
authority within five days from the date of the Mayor’s judgment. The
legislative authority shall hear the appeal at its next regularly scheduled
meeting. The person against whom the judgment has been rendered may appear in
person and by counsel at the hearing, examine all witnesses and answer all
charges against him or her.
      (4)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the legislative authority may
dismiss the charges, uphold the Mayor’s judgment, or modify the judgment to one
of suspension for not more than 60 days, reduction in rank, or removal from the
Department.
      (5)   Action of the legislative authority removing or suspending the
accused from the Department requires the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
members elected to it.
      (6)   In the case of removal from the Department, the person so removed
may appeal on questions of law and fact the decision of the legislative
authority to the Court of Common Pleas of the county in which the municipality
is situated. The person shall take the appeal within ten days from the date of
the finding of the legislative authority.
   (C)   The Marshal shall suppress all riots, disturbances, and breaches of
the peace, and to that end may call upon the citizens to aid him or her. The
Marshal shall arrest all disorderly persons in the municipality, and pursue and
arrest any person fleeing from justice in any part of the state. The Marshal
shall arrest any person in the act of committing an offense against the laws of
the state or the ordinances of the municipality, and forthwith bring the person
before the Mayor or other competent authority for examination or trial. The
Marshal shall receive and execute proper authority for the arrest and detention
of criminals fleeing or escaping from other places or states.
   (D)   In the discharge of his or her duties, the Marshal shall have the
powers and be subject to the responsibilities of constables, and for services
performed by the Marshal or his or her deputies, the same fees and expenses
shall be taxed as are allowed constables.
(R.C. § 737.19)
§ 34.10 DISPOSITION OF FINES AND PENALTIES.
   All fees, costs, fines, and penalties collected by the Marshal shall
immediately be paid to the Mayor, who shall report to the legislative authority
monthly the amount thereof, from whom and for what purpose collected, and when
paid to the Mayor.
(R.C. § 737.20)
§ 34.11 PROPERTY RECOVERED BY POLICE.
   (A)   Stolen or other property recovered by members of the police force
shall be deposited and kept in a place designated by the Mayor. Each article
shall be entered in a book kept for that purpose, with the name of the owner,
if ascertained, the person from whom taken, the place where found with general
circumstances, the date of its receipt, and the name of the officer recovering
it.
   (B)   An inventory of all money or other property shall be given to the
party from whom taken, and, in case it is not claimed by some person within 30
days after arrest and seizure, it shall be delivered to the person from whom
taken, and to no other person, either attorney, agent, factor, or clerk, except
by special order of the Mayor.
(R.C. § 737.29)
Cross-reference:
   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property held by Police Department;
regulations, see §
130.17
§ 34.12 DISPOSITION TO CLAIMANT.
   If, within 30 days, the money or property recovered under §
34.10 is claimed by any person other than the person from whom the property was
recovered from, it shall be retained by the custodian thereof until after the
discharge or conviction of the person from whom it was taken, and so long as it
may be required as evidence in any case in court. If the claimant establishes
to the satisfaction of the court that he or she is the rightful owner, it shall
be restored to him or her; otherwise, it shall be returned to the accused
person, personally, and not to any attorney, agent, factor, or clerk of the
accused person, except upon special order of the Mayor after all liens and
claims in favor of the municipality have first been discharged and satisfied.
(R.C. § 737.31)
Cross-reference:
   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property held by Police Department;
regulations, see §
130.17
§ 34.13 SALE OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY; DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section and unless the property
involved is required to be disposed of pursuant to another section of the Ohio
Revised Code, property that is unclaimed for 90 days or more shall be sold by
the Marshal, Police Chief, or licensed auctioneer at public auction, after
notice of the sale has been provided by publication once a week for three
successive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the county or as
provided in R.C. § 7.16. The proceeds of the sale shall be paid to the
Treasurer and shall be credited to the General Fund of the municipality.
   (B)   If authorized to do so by an ordinance adopted by the legislative
authority of the municipality and if the property involved is not required to
be disposed of pursuant to another section of the Ohio Revised Code, the Police
Chief or Marshal may contribute property that is unclaimed for 90 days or more
to one or more public agencies, to one or more nonprofit organizations no part
of the net income of which inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or
individual and no substantial part of the activities of which consists of
carrying on propaganda or otherwise attempting to influence legislation, or to
one or more organizations satisfying IRC § 501(c)(3) or (c)(19).
(R.C. § 737.32)
Cross-reference:
   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property held by Police Department;
regulations, see §
130.17
§ 34.14 EXPENSES OF STORAGE AND SALE; NOTICE.
   Upon the sale of any unclaimed or impounded property as provided in §
34.12, if any such unclaimed or impounded property was ordered removed to a
place of storage or stored, or both, by or under the direction of the Police
Chief or Marshal, any expenses or charges for the removal or storage, or both,
and costs of sale, provided the same are approved by the Police Chief or
Marshal, shall first be paid from the proceeds of the sale. Notice shall be
given by registered mail 30 days before the date of sale to the owner and
mortgagee, or other lien holder, at his or her last known address.
(R.C. § 737.33)
Cross-reference:
   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property held by Police Department;
regulations, see §
130.17
§ 34.15 CONTRACTS FOR POLICE PROTECTION; NONRESIDENT SERVICE WITHOUT CONTRACT.
   (A)   The legislative authority, in order to obtain police protection or to
obtain additional police protection or to allow police officers to work in
multi-jurisdictional drug, gang, or career criminal task forces, may enter into
contracts with one or more municipal corporations, townships, township police
districts, joint police districts, or county sheriffs in the state, with one or
more park districts created pursuant to R.C. §§ 511.18 or 1545.01, with one or
more port authorities, or with a contiguous municipal corporation in an
adjoining state, upon any terms that are agreed upon, for services of police
departments or the use of police equipment or for the interchange of services
of police departments or police equipment within the several territories of the
contracting subdivisions.
   (B)   The provisions of R.C. Chapter 2744, insofar as it applies to the
operation of police departments, shall apply to the contracting political
subdivisions and to the Police Department members when they are rendering
service outside their own subdivisions pursuant to the contracts.
   (C)   Police Department members acting outside the subdivision in which they
are employed, pursuant to a contract entered into under this section, shall be
entitled to participate in any indemnity fund established by their employer to
the same extent as while acting within the employing subdivision. Those members
shall be entitled to all the rights and benefits of R.C. Chapter 4123, to the
same extent as while performing service within the subdivision.
   (D)   The contracts may provide for:
      (1)   A fixed annual charge to be paid at the times agreed upon and
stipulated in the contract;
      (2)   Compensation based upon:
         (a)   A stipulated price for each call or emergency;
         (b)   The number of members or pieces of equipment employed; or
         (c)   The elapsed time of service required in each call or emergency.
      (3)   Compensation for loss or damage to equipment while engaged in
rendering police services outside the limits of the political subdivision
owning and furnishing the equipment; and
      (4)   Reimbursement of the political subdivision in which the Police
Department members are employed for any indemnity award or premium contribution
assessed against the employing subdivision for workers’ compensation benefits
for injuries or death of its Police Department members occurring while engaged
in rendering police services pursuant to the contract.
(R.C. § 737.04)
   (E)   Nonresident service without contract.
      (1)   The Police Department may provide police protection to any county,
municipal corporation, township or township police district, or joint police
district of the state, to a park district created pursuant to R.C. §§ 511.18 or
1545.01, to a port authority, to any multi-jurisdictional drug, gang, or career
criminal task force, or to a governmental entity of an adjoining state without
a contract to provide police protection, upon the approval, by resolution, of
the legislative authority and upon authorization by an officer or employee of
the Police Department who is designated by title of office or position,
pursuant to the resolution of the legislative authority, to give the
authorization.
      (2)   The provisions of R.C. Chapter 2744, insofar as it applies to the
operation of police departments, shall apply to the municipality and to members
of its Police Department when the members are rendering police services
pursuant to this section outside the municipality.
      (3)   Police Department members acting, as provided in this section,
outside the municipality, shall be entitled to participate in any pension or
indemnity fund established by their employer to the same extent as while acting
within the municipality. Those members shall be entitled to all the rights and
benefits of R.C. Chapter 4123, to the same extent as while performing services
within the municipality.
(R.C. § 737.041)
§ 34.16 PEACE OFFICER ADMINISTERING OATHS; ACKNOWLEDGING COMPLAINTS, SUMMONSES,
AFFIDAVITS, AND RETURNS OF COURT ORDERS.
   (A)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2935.01, except that the term does not include, for any purpose, the
superintendent or any trooper of the State Highway Patrol.
   (B)   A peace officer who has completed a course of in-service training that
includes training in the administration of oaths and the acknowledgment of
documents and that is approved by the chief legal officer of the political
subdivision in which the peace officer is elected, or of the political
subdivision or other entity in which or by which the peace officer is appointed
or employed may administer oaths and acknowledge criminal and juvenile
complaints, summonses, affidavits, and returns of court orders in matters
related to the peace officer’s official duties.
   (C)   A trooper of the State Highway Patrol who has completed a course of
in-service training that includes training in the administration of oaths and
the acknowledgment of documents and that is approved by the Ohio Director of
Public Safety may administer oaths and acknowledge criminal and juvenile court
complaints, summonses, affidavits, and returns of court orders in matters
related to the trooper’s official duties.
   (D)   Except as authorized by division (B) or (C) of this section, no peace
officer or trooper who has completed a course of in-service training of a type
described in division (B) or (C) of this section shall knowingly perform any
act that is specifically required of a notary public unless the peace officer
or trooper has complied with R.C. Chapter 147.
(R.C. § 2935.081)
§ 34.17 USE OF DOG IN DRUG CASES.
   The Village Council authorizes use of a K-9 dog as part of its law
enforcement efforts related to drugs.
(Res. 2003-011, passed 4-21-2003)
AUXILIARY OFFICER PROGRAM
§ 34.30 AUXILIARY POLICE UNITS GENERALLY.
   (A)   The legislative authority may establish, by ordinance, an auxiliary
police unit within the police department, and provide for the regulation of
auxiliary police officers. The Mayor shall be the executive head of the
auxiliary police unit, shall make all appointments and removals of auxiliary
police officers, subject to any general rules prescribed by the legislative
authority by ordinance, and shall prescribe rules for the organization,
training, administration, control, and conduct of the auxiliary police unit.
The Marshal shall have exclusive control of the stationing and transferring of
all auxiliary police officers, under such general rules as the Mayor
prescribes.
   (B)   (1)   The legislative authority may establish, by ordinance, a parking
enforcement unit within the Police Department, and provide for the regulation
of parking enforcement officers. The Mayor shall be the executive head of the
parking enforcement unit, shall make all appointments and removals of parking
enforcement officers, subject to any general rules prescribed by the
legislative authority by ordinance, and shall prescribe rules for the
organization, training, administration, control, and conduct of the parking
enforcement unit. The Mayor may appoint parking enforcement officers who agree
to serve for nominal compensation, and persons with physical disabilities may
receive appointments as parking enforcement officers.
      (2)   The authority of the parking enforcement officers shall be limited
to the enforcement of ordinances governing parking in accessible parking
locations and fire lanes and any other parking ordinances specified in the
ordinance creating the parking enforcement unit. Parking enforcement officers
shall have no other powers.
      (3)   The training of parking enforcement officers shall include
instruction in general administrative rules and procedures governing the
parking enforcement unit, the role of the judicial system as it relates to
parking regulations and enforcement, proper techniques and methods relating to
the enforcement of parking ordinances, human interaction skills, and first aid.
(R.C. § 737.161)
§ 34.31 AUXILIARY OFFICER PROGRAM.
   (A)   Generally. The Waynesville Police Department Law Enforcement Auxiliary
Program provides an opportunity along career development to learn about the law
enforcement profession by working closely with sworn police officers so that
each auxiliary member will have a better understanding of the role of a police
officer in society.
   (B)   Program description.
      (1)   The Waynesville Police Department Law Enforcement Auxiliary Program
was established for the purpose of introducing auxiliary officers to the patrol
function of the Police Department. Auxiliary officers in good standing are
given the opportunity to accompany police officers during hours and observe the
officers in the performance of tasks such as:
         (a)   Report/complaint writing;
         (b)   Accident investigations;
         (c)   Felony and misdemeanor investigations;
         (d)   Crime prevention techniques; and
         (e)   Evidence gathering and processing.
      (2)   The Auxiliary Program consists of personnel who have met the
standards of training required for their position. Persons approved to
participate in the Auxiliary Program will not act in a sworn capacity nor will
they be permitted to carry firearms.
      (3)   All auxiliary officers are expected to work a scheduled eight-hour
shift per week.
      (4)   Auxiliary officers will receive a limited amount of basic training
and may be selected to attend other training courses at other academies, in
keeping with the needs of the Police Department.
      (5)   Auxiliary officers may be called upon in emergencies to perform
day-to-day functions within their training and authority and may be selected to
perform security details as needed.
      (6)   An auxiliary officer may be selected to become a reserve police
officer with the Police Department.
      (7)   Auxiliary officers are expected to meet the minimum qualifications
established for a police officer, and be at least 20 years of age at the time
of application.
      (8)   The Auxiliary Program is under the authority of the Operations
Commander. Auxiliary officers may be assigned to various functions and be
placed under the direct supervision of that function’s supervisor.
      (9)   The auxiliary officer may be dismissed from the Auxiliary Program
for any of the following reasons:
         (a)   Unsatisfactory performance;
         (b)   Failure to complete training;
         (c)   Failure to comply with the Police Department regulations; and/or
         (d)   Failure to complete required hours.
      (10)   An auxiliary officer may elect not to advance as a reserve police
officer but remain and assist with the programs and tasks within the Police
Department.
      (11)   Auxiliary officers may be certified officers, and will keep the
certification up to date.
   (C)   Auxiliary Program objectives.
      (1)   The primary objective of the Auxiliary Program is to allow the
auxiliary participants a training/assistance program through observation of
activities of police officers. There will be no participation in any activity
involving personal risk to the auxiliary officer.
      (2)   Auxiliary officers will not be assigned to any duties requiring
sworn officer status.
   (D)   Auxiliary duties and responsibilities.
      (1)   Duties and responsibilities of the auxiliary participants are
limited by the very nature of the program and their civilian status. Duties may
include traffic direction, special events, crowd control, assisting at Police
Department or school functions, assisting the Central Records Section, the
detectives, the Communications Center, assist administrative personnel by
completing tasks as directed, acting as couriers when needed, and may be
assigned to assist the Community Relations/Crime Prevention Officer.
      (2)   Auxiliary officers may be assigned to a training officer which
would require him or her to accompany the road patrol officer on tours of duty
and assist that officer. Auxiliary officers are permitted to assist in report
writing, traffic control, securing a crime scene, and the like, but are not
permitted to carry a firearm or make an arrest.
      (3)   Responsibilities and requirements for the auxiliary members are
outlined in the auxiliary officer job description provided in §
34.32.
   (E)   Pay protocol for reserve and auxiliary police officers.
      (1)   Purpose. The following pay protocol is adopted to provide partial
reimbursement to reserve and auxiliary police officers for job-related expenses
and job-related equipment required by but not provided by the village.
      (2)   Pay protocol. The Chief of Police will determine the pay protocol.
The pay shall be as follows:
         (a)   Reserve officers will be paid $10 for each approved full eight-
hour shift.
         (b)   Auxiliary officers will be paid $5 for each approved full eight-
hour shift.
      (3)   Requirements for officers to be paid.
         (a)   Paid shifts begin on Friday at 1600 hours and end on Sunday at
2400 hours. Auxiliary officers will be paid only for the weekend shifts.
         (b)   During the remainder of the week, if a full-time officer is
attending class or is unable to work his or her shift, a reserve officer will
be paid for covering the shift pending the approval of the Chief of Police.
         (c)   In case of an emergency, the Chief of Police may authorize the
pay of an officer who is called in to work.
         (d)   Pay will be rendered quarterly, as determined by the Finance
Director.
(Ord. 95-162, passed 9-18-1995; Ord. 2000-031, passed 6-19-2000; Ord. 2000-050,
passed 8-7-2000)
§ 34.32 AUXILIARY OFFICERS.
   (A)   General statement of duties. Duties and responsibilities of the
auxiliary participants are limited by the very nature of the program and their
civilian status. Duties may include traffic direction, special events, crowd
control, assisting at Police Department or school functions, assisting the
Central Records Section, the Detective Section, the Communications Center,
assist administrative personnel by completing tasks as directed, acting as
couriers when needed, and may be assigned to assist the Community Relations/
Crime Prevention Officer.
   (B)   Nature of work.
      (1)   Auxiliary officers may be assigned to a Field Training Officer
(FTO) which require him or her to accompany the road patrol officers on tours
of duty and assist that officer. Auxiliary officers are permitted to assist in
report writing, traffic control, securing a crime scene, and the like, but are
not permitted to carry a firearm or make an arrest.
      (2)   Work assignments, methods, and results are reviewed by supervisors
through reports, personal inspection, and discussion.
      (3)   Auxiliary officers may be called upon in emergencies to perform
day-to-day functions within their training and authority and may be selected to
perform security details as needed.
      (4)   Auxiliary officers shall cope with situations firmly, courteously,
tactfully, and with respect of the rights of others.
      (5)   Auxiliary officers shall be knowledgeable in the Police
Department’s rules, policies, procedures, general orders, personnel orders, and
special orders.
      (6)   Auxiliary officers shall react quickly and calmly under emergency
conditions.
   (C)   Minimum experience, training, and physical requirements. Minimum of
high school graduate or any equivalent combination of experience and training
(G.E.D.). Minimum of 20 years of age and other physical requirements prescribed
by the Police Department such as capabilities to perform duties which require
long periods of walking or standing. Must be of good general intelligence and
emotional stability.
(Ord. 95-162, passed 9-18-1995)
§ 34.33 REQUIREMENTS AND SELECTION OF AUXILIARY OFFICERS.
   (A)   Generally. Any person may request and submit an application for the
position of auxiliary officer. This position is an entry level position within
the Police Department and is designed to introduce a candidate to law
enforcement. Should a candidate decide to continue in law enforcement, he or
she can attend and complete a basic training course. Upon certification by the
State of Ohio, the officer may then advance to the reserve officer ranks.
   (B)   Auxiliary patrol officer requirements.
      (1)   Age: minimum of 20 years of age;
      (2)   Vision: 20/100 vision correctable to 20/20 at the time of
appointment and cannot be colorblind;
      (3)   Hearing: no hearing loss exceeding 30 decibels, nor hearing aids;
      (4)   Education: minimum of a high school graduate or G.E.D.; and
      (5)   A candidate who fails to meet the minimum requirements will be
rejected until the candidate has taken remedial action to correct the defect.
   (C)   Auxiliary officer selection process.
      (1)   When a vacancy exists within the Auxiliary Officer Program,
applications will be selected and activated. Generally, applications will be
selected based on the date of application. However, should a candidate possess
the skills that are advantageous to the Police Department, that candidate’s
application shall take precedence.
      (2)   The steps outlined for the selection process are:
         (a)   Background investigation;
         (b)   Authorization for evaluation (ride-along program);
         (c)   Interview with the Review Board; and
         (d)   Recommendation to the Chief of Police.
      (3)   A candidate may be rejected at any step of the selection process.
The selection process should take no longer than 90 days to complete. If the
process is extended, the candidate will be notified.
      (4)   Candidates accepted as auxiliary officers are expected (not
required) to complete a basic training academy within 18 months from the date
of acceptance unless the candidate specifies his or her intention to remain as
an auxiliary officer when accepted into the Auxiliary Program. An auxiliary
officer will serve a probationary period of one year.
(Ord. 95-162, passed 9-18-1995)
CHAPTER 35: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
General Policies
   
35.01   Personnel Policy Manual adopted
   
35.02   Positions descriptions adopted
   
35.03   Deferred Compensation Program adopted
   
35.04   Holding daily receipts
   
35.05   National Incident Management System
   
35.06   Code Red Emergency Notification System
   
35.07   Compensation in lieu of healthcare benefits
   
35.08   Retirement incentive plan
   
35.09   Retirement system contribution
   
35.10   Health reimbursement plan payments
Purchasing Policies and Procedures  
   
35.20   Purpose
   
35.21   Definitions
   
35.22   Governing laws and regulations
   
35.23   Principles and ethics
   
35.24   Conflict of interest
   
35.25   Personal purchases
   
35.26   Unauthorized purchases
   
35.27   Vendor terms
   
35.28   Contracts
   
35.29   General rules
   
35.30   Procedures
Purchasing Card Policy
   
35.45   Purpose
   
35.46   General information
   
35.47   Responsibilities of card users
   
35.48   Returns, credits, or disputed items
   
35.49   Responsibilities of the Finance Director
   
35.50   Agreement for authorized use
GENERAL POLICIES
§ 35.01 PERSONNEL POLICY MANUAL ADOPTED.
   The village hereby adopts and approves a Personnel Policy Manual, as
originally adopted by Ordinance No. 95-188, passed January 16, 1995, and as
subsequently amended and re-adopted by Ordinance 96-109, passed February 5,
1996. The Personnel Policy Manual, as may be amended from time to time, is
hereby adopted by reference and shall be treated as if set forth in full
herein.
(Ord. 95-188, passed 1-16-1995; Ord. 96-109, passed 2-5-1996; Ord. 96-190,
passed 1-6-1997; Ord. 97-103, passed 2-3-1997; Ord. 97-178, passed 12-1-1997;
Ord. 98-101, passed 1-20-1998; Ord. 99-155, passed - -1999; Ord. 2003-064,
passed 12-15-2003; Ord. 2013-63, passed 1-6-2014; Ord. 2014-034, passed 11-17-
2014; Ord. 2016-009, passed 4-18-2016; Ord. 2018-039, passed 9-4-2018; Ord.
2018-061, passed 12-17-2018; Ord. 2019-027, passed 7-1-2019; Ord. 2019-065,
passed 12-16-2019)
§ 35.02 POSITIONS DESCRIPTIONS ADOPTED.
   The village hereby adopts the positions descriptions of the village, as may
be revised, amended, and/or deleted from time to time.
(Ord. 98-147, passed 9-21-1998; Ord. 98-161, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 35.03 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PROGRAM ADOPTED.
   (A)   The village hereby adopts the state’s Public Employees Deferred
Compensation Program (the Program) pursuant to R.C. §§ 148.01 et seq., and the
village shall properly contract with any eligible village employee who desires
to participate in the Program. The village’s Program shall be uniform as
promulgated by and amended from time to time by the state’s Public Employees
Deferred Compensation Board (the Board).
   (B)   The village authorizes the Board to administer the Program to do all
things necessary and proper for the administration of the Program consistent
with the Ohio Revised Code and all rules and regulations promulgated by the
Board, whether by the Ohio Administrative Code or otherwise, and consistent
with the Program.
(Ord. 95-186, passed 12-4-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal hotel tax, see R.C. § 5739.09
§ 35.04 HOLDING DAILY RECEIPTS.
   (A)   The Village Council hereby authorizes the holding of daily receipts
under $1,000 for up to three business days.
   (B)   The Village Manager is hereby authorized to draft any necessary policy
statement for the holding of daily receipts under $1,000 for up to three
business days.
(Res. 2013-008, passed 3-3-2013)
§ 35.05 NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   The village adopts and incorporated by reference the National Incident
Management System, a complete text of which is attached to the resolution
codified herein and marked as exhibit “A”.
(Res. 2005-021, passed 6-6-2005)
§ 35.06 CODE RED EMERGENCY NOTIFICATION SYSTEM.
   The village authorizes the Code Red Emergency Notification System
Intergovernmental policies and procedures in conjunction with Wayne Township
and the Village of Corwin.
(Res. 2005-010, passed 3-21-2005)
§ 35.07 COMPENSATION IN LIEU OF HEALTHCARE BENEFITS.
   (A)   The village hereby authorizes additional compensation of $250 per
month to full-time employees who elect to decline to participate in the village
offered medical health plan, with such compensation to be paid in one lump sum
payment at the end of each calendar year. This payment can be prorated for
individuals who take advantage of this program during the course of the year.
   (B)   The Finance Director is authorized and directed to administer such a
compensation program.
   (C)   The Finance Director is hereby authorized to make payments in
accordance with such program, with all payments being made subject to all
regular and customary withholdings consistent with all other forms of
compensation.
(Res. 2004-010, passed 5-17-2004; Ord. 2018-015, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 35.08 RETIREMENT INCENTIVE PLAN.
   (A)   The village shall adopt a voluntary retirement incentive plan to take
effect immediately. This plan is pursuant to R.C. § 145.297. A complete text of
the voluntary retirement incentive plan is attached to the resolution codified
herein and incorporated herein and marked as exhibit “A”. The plan is in
writing and provides for the village’s purchase and payment of OPERS service
credit. The service credit shall be up to four years. This plan is approved and
incorporated by the village.
   (B)   The plan shall allow for the purchase or up to four years of service
credit. This is the only plan in effect for the village. The plan is offered to
a minimum and shall not exceed 8% of the OPERS covered employees of the
village. The procedure for grievances is established herein and may be amended.
   (C)   Military service credit shall qualify for the retirement incentive
plan.
   (D)   The Clerk of the village confirms that the village has the necessary
funds available to make this purchase of the retirement incentive plan and the
Clerk so certifies. The Finance Director is authorized to establish the
necessary funds for receipt and disbursement for the purchase by the covered
employees not to exceed 8%.
   (E)   The village finds that the Clerk is immediately authorized to expend
monies for the purchase of military service credit and any other credit time
contemplated by R.C. § 145.297.
   (F)   The Clerk of the village shall submit a completed form F-11A or F-l1B
along with a certified copy of the board minutes, ordinances, resolutions, and
the plan document to OPERS for approval.
(Res. 2007-016, passed 7-23-2007)
§ 35.09 RETIREMENT SYSTEM CONTRIBUTION.
   (A)   (1)   Effective October 1, 2007, the full amount of the statutorily
required contributions to the Public Employees Retirement System of Ohio shall
be withheld from the gross pay of each person within any of the classes
established in division (B) of this section and shall be “picked up” (assumed
and paid to the state’s Public Employees Retirement System) by the village.
This “pick up” by the village is, and shall be designated as, public employee
contributions and shall be in lieu of contributions to the state’s Public
Employees Retirement System by each person within any of the classes
established in division (B) of this section. No person subject to this “pick
up” shall have the option of choosing to receive the statutorily required
contribution to the state’s Public Employees Retirement System directly instead
of having it “picked up” by the village or of being excluded from the “pick
up”.
      (2)   The village shall, in reporting and making remittance to the
state’s Public Employees Retirement System report that the public employees
contribution for each person subject to this “pick up” has been made as
provided by the statute.
   (B)   The “pick up” by the village provided by this section shall apply to
all persons that are employees of the village or become contributing members of
the state’s Public Employees Retirement System.
   (C)   The village’s method of payment of salary to employees who are
participants in PERS is hereby modified as follows, in order to provide for a
salary reduction pick-up of employee contributions to PERS.
   (D)   (1)   The total salary for each employee shall be the salary otherwise
payable under the village policies. Such total salary of each employee shall be
payable by the village in two parts:
         (a)   Deferred salary; and
         (b)   Cash salary.
      (2)   An employee’s deferred salary shall be equal to that percentage of
that employee’s total salary which is required from time to time by PERS to be
paid as an employee contribution by that employee, and shall be paid by the
village to PERS on behalf of that employee as a pick-up and in lieu of the PERS
employee contribution otherwise payable by that employee. An employee’s cash
salary shall be equal to that employee’s total salary less the amount of the
pick-up for that employee, and shall be payable, subject to applicable payroll
deductions, to that employee. The village shall compute and remit its employer
contributions to PERS based upon an employee’s total salary. The total combined
expenditures of the village for such employees’ total salaries payable under
applicable village policies and the pick-up provisions of this section shall
not be greater than the amounts it would have paid for those items had this
provision not been in effect.
   (E)   The Treasurer and/or the Clerk are hereby authorized and directed to
implement the provisions of this section to institute the “pick up” of the
statutorily required contributions to the state’s Public Employees Retirement
System for those persons reflected in division (B) of this section so as to
enable them to obtain the result in federal and state tax deferments and other
benefits.
(Ord. 2007-017, passed 8-20-2007)
§ 35.10 HEALTH REIMBURSEMENT PLAN PAYMENTS.
   (A)   The health reimbursement program and related payments are as follows:
 
Individual Plans                 Family Plans
First $2,000 village pays 75%    First 4,000 village pays 75%
Next $2,000 village pays nothing Next $4,000 village pays nothing
Next $1,000 village pays 100%    Next $2,000 village pays 100%
Village pays 100% of $250 individual and $500 Family RX deductible
 
   (B)   The Village Manager is further authorized to execute any and all
documents necessary for the administration of this program.
   (C)   The Finance Director is hereby authorized to make any and all payments
as described above.
(Ord. 2017-061, passed 12-4-2017; Ord. 2018-001, passed 1-2-2018)
PURCHASING POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
§ 35.20 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The village’s purchasing function was established to ensure that
needed goods and services are obtained in a timely manner, at the lowest prices
possible, consistent with acceptable quality standards, and within the
requirements of public purchasing laws.
   (B)   Procedures which apply to purchases made directly by village staff are
described below, along with the public purchasing law and ethical standards
that shape the village’s purchasing activities.
(Res. 2013-65, passed 1-6-2014)
§ 35.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLANKET PURCHASE ORDER. A purchase order which has been issued to a vendor
against which multiple purchases may be made for a specified period of time.
   EMERGENCY PURCHASE. An immediate need of a good or service that was unable
to be anticipated, which time is a crucial factor and would be a disservice to
the citizens of the village if the item is not purchased.
   PURCHASE (DOLLAR VALUE). The amount paid to a vendor on a single warrant for
a service(s) and/or product(s) listed on one invoice. Vendors should not split
invoices in order to keep dollar amounts below the established thresholds.
Invoices that are generated on the same day for similar services and/or
products will be treated as one purchase.
   PURCHASE ORDER. A certificate issued by the Finance Director that guarantees
the amount required for the order or contract has been lawfully appropriated
and is in the treasury or in the process of collection to the credit of an
appropriate fund free from any previous encumbrances. Per R.C. § 5705.41(D), no
orders or contracts involving the expenditure of money are to be made unless
there is a certificate issued by the Finance Director under the terms described
above. Every such contract made without such a certificate shall be void, and
no warrant shall be issued in payment of any amount due thereon.
   REQUISITION. A formal purchase request form to be utilized to obtain the
required approvals and certified purchase order.
   SUPER BLANKET PURCHASE ORDER. A purchase which has been issued for the
services of an accountant, architect, attorney at law, physician, professional
engineer, construction project manager, consultant, surveyor, appraiser, fuel,
oil, gasoline, food, roadway materials, utilities, or any other purchases that
are exempt from competitive bidding under R.C. § 125.04 and are a recurring and
reasonably predictable operating expense. They have no dollar limitation and
are authorized to be outstanding for any period up to the end of the fiscal
year.
   THEN AND NOW CERTIFICATE. (Exception to the basic requirement of obtaining a
purchase order as provided by the statute, R.C. § 5705.41 (D).) A certificate
issued by the Finance Director guaranteeing that both at the time that the
contract or order was made and at the time that he or she is completing his or
her certification, sufficient funds were available or in the process of
collection, to the credit of a proper fund, properly appropriated and free from
any previous encumbrance. This CERTIFICATE permits the taxing authority to
authorize the drawing of a warrant. If the contract or order is greater than
$3,000, the taxing authority must approve by resolution or ordinance within 30
days.
(Res. 2013-65, passed 1-6-2014)
§ 35.22 GOVERNING LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   Procurements by the village are governed by state and local laws and
regulations. This policy establishes further requirements for the village’s
purchasing activities. The village policy, adopted by ordinance, along with the
state statute and the village’s administrative policies and procedures describe
basic procurement processes.
(Res. 2013-65, passed 1-6-2014)
§ 35.23 PRINCIPLES AND ETHICS.
   Please refer to the employee policy manual.
(Res. 2013-65, passed 1-6-2014)
§ 35.24 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   No employee or official of the village shall participate in a transaction,
contract, activity, or service of the village in which they personally have a
direct or predictable effect on their financial interests or the interests of
an immediate family member.
(R.C. § 2921.42) (Res. 2013-65, passed 1-6-2014)
§ 35.25 PERSONAL PURCHASES.
   It is prohibited for an employee or official to make purchases for their own
personal purposes or to receive special pricing from a vendor using the
village’s name or reputation.
(Res. 2013-65, passed 1-6-2014)
§ 35.26 UNAUTHORIZED PURCHASES.
   No individual has the authority to enter purchase agreements or contracts on
behalf of the village unless specifically authorized to do so. Any such
purchase classified as unauthorized is considered a personal expense and the
obligation of the purchaser.
(Res. 2013-65, passed 1-6-2014)
§ 35.27 VENDOR TERMS.
   All vendors must have current licenses and permits as required by the
village’s General Code of Ordinances. It is also a requirement that the
village’s vendors are current with their village obligations.
(Res. 2013-65, passed 1-6-2014)
§ 35.28 CONTRACTS.
   Prior to awarding a contract for goods, services, or construction as
described in R.C. § 9.24(G)(1), vendors must be checked through the Auditor of
State Findings for Recovery Database. The village is prohibited from awarding a
contract to any vendor against whom a finding for recovery has been issued, if
that finding is unresolved.
(Res. 2013-65, passed 1-6-2014)
§ 35.29 GENERAL RULES.
   (A)   Approvals.
      (1)   Purchases require a purchase order.
      (2)   Purchases of less than $25,000 can be approved by the Village
Manager.
      (3)   All purchases $25,000 and over require Council approval by
ordinance. A formal bid process per R.C. § 735.05 (unless purchase falls under
one of the stated exceptions in R.C. § 735.05) shall be required for any
purchase $50,000 or greater, and the vendor can not have any unresolved
findings for recovery issued by the AOS per R.C. § 9.24.
      (4)   Then and now certificates for $3,000 or more require Council
approval within 30 days of certificate per R.C. § 5705.41(D).
      (5)   Emergency purchases must be authorized by the Village Manager
unless the village is in a declared state of emergency. Emergency purchases of
$3,000 or more will be reported to Council no later than the next Council
meeting.
   (B)   Vendor quotes.
      (1)   Purchases of $10,000 or less may require two or more quotes as
determined by the Village Manager. Written quotes are preferred.
      (2)   Purchases of $10,000 or more require three or more quotes. Written
quotes are preferred. If three quotes cannot be obtained, the department head
should include a written explanation with the requisition.
      (3)   Quotes are not required if purchasing under the state’s Cooperative
Purchasing Program or if purchase is classified as a professional service
including, but not limited to, attorneys, bond counsel, CPAs, consultants,
engineers, financial advisors, physicians, and real estate brokers.
   (C)   Document retention. The following documents will be retained in the
finance department vendor files until destroyed as outlined in the village’s
record retention policy: requisition packet, including quotes and invoice
packet including purchase order; then and now form; and purchase increase
request form as applicable. All W-9 forms will also be retained in the vendor
files.
(Res. 2013-65, passed 1-6-2014)
§ 35.30 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Fill out the requisition form and submit to the Finance
Director. If using a new vendor, he or she must also include the vendor’s W-
9 form. Purchase orders cannot be processed without this information (see 8/9/
07 AOS Fiscal Emergency Termination report, pg. 10 and § 6109 of the IRC).
      (2)   If the purchase is $25,000 or greater, he or she must also include
the print out from the AOS Findings for Recovery Database verifying the vendor
is eligible to be awarded a contract.
      (3)   Each request should include documentation (all vendor quotes
received, memo from department head, and the like).
   (B)   (1)   The Finance Director will verify availability of funds in
accounts requested to be charged and will notify the department head if funds
are not available. Department head should submit a budget transfer request to
the Finance Department if budget funds are available to transfer.
      (2)   After the budget transfer has been processed, the Finance Director
will continue processing. If budget funds are unavailable to be transferred,
purchase order will not be processed due to lack of funds available.
   (C)   The Finance Director will obtain necessary authorization by the
Village Manager.
   (D)   (1)   The Finance Director will process the request and provide the
certified purchase order to the requesting department.
      (2)   The requisition and documentation will be retained in the Finance
Department vendor files.
Departments shall allow two full business days to process purchase order
requests.
   (E)   Goods or services may be ordered only after the department has
received a signed purchase order.
   (F)   Upon receipt of the invoice, the department head or their designee
must initial the invoice to indicate that the goods and/or services have been
satisfactorily received.
   (G)   (1)   The department must check for compliance; that the date on the
purchase order is either the same date or prior to the service/order date on
the invoice (not the date the invoice was printed).
      (2)   If compliant, proceed to division (H) of this section.
      (3)   If not compliant, the Finance Director will be notified and will
determine if funds were available for purchase. A then and now will be done if
the Finance Director determines funds were available. If funds were not
available (unless emergency) it may be determined that the purchase was
unallowable and not an approved payment by the village.
      (4)   A then and now form must be filled out and attached to documents
submitted in division (H) of this section.
   (H)   (1)   If the entire purchase order is to be closed upon payment of the
invoice, attach the original purchase order with the submitted invoice to the
Finance Director.
      (2)   If the invoice is a partial payment and the purchase order should
remain open for payment of future invoices, write the purchase order number on
the invoice and submit it to the Finance Director, the original copy should be
retained by the Department.
   (I)   If the invoice is greater than the purchase order amount, the
following guidelines will be followed.
      (1)   A purchase order increase request form documenting the reason for
the overage must be submitted to the Finance Director with the invoice and
purchase order.
      (2)   The Finance Director will obtain the required authorizations.
         (a)   If the invoiced amount for goods or services is more than 10%
over the purchase order, approval of the increase must be obtained from the
original source of approval. If the original purchase order was approved by
Council, the increase of the purchase order must also be approved by Council.
         (b)   If the increase causes the total purchase to exceed the original
level of approval, the increase must be approved by the level that corresponds
with the total purchase price. (If the original purchase order was $24,900,
originally approved by the Village Manager, and the increase is $100, the total
purchase equals $25,000 and therefore the increase must be approved by
Council).
(Res. 2013-65, passed 1-6-2014)
PURCHASING CARD POLICY
§ 35.45 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This policy has been designed to establish the procedures to be used
with the village’s purchasing card program.
   (B)   This policy intends to accomplish the following:
      (1)   Establish appropriate internal controls over the purchase card
process to ensure cards are only used for authorized purposes;
      (2)   Ensure the village bears no legal liability from inappropriate use
of procurement cards;
      (3)   To provide a convenient source of funding for employees who must
procure for the village; and
      (4)   Verify payments for purchases are made on a timely basis to
minimize finance charges.
(Res. 2013-011, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 35.46 GENERAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   The purchasing card is a tool for designated village employees to use
when making low dollar purchases for official business needs.
   (B)   Failure to comply with these procedures will result in the revocation
of the use of the card by the user and may result in the termination of the
user.
   (C)   The purchase card may only be used by a current village employee who
has submitted the completed card user agreement.
   (D)   The purchase card must be signed out from the Finance Director and
returned there upon completion of purchase.
   (E)   A purchasing card is not a means to avoid appropriate procurement or
payment procedures.
   (F)   Credit cards are permitted for business materials, supplies, small
dollar amount equipments, expenses, and travel expense costs within personnel
policy guidelines.
   (G)   Meal costs on trips are limited to a 20% gratuity.
   (H)   The purchase of tobacco and alcoholic beverages is expressly
prohibited.
   (I)   The card may not be used for personal transactions.
   (J)   The card may not be used to access cash (ATM).
(Res. 2013-011, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 35.47 RESPONSIBILITIES OF CARD USERS.
   (A)   The card user is responsible for the security of the card. All
precautions should be used to maintain confidentiality of all information
relating to the card, such as the account number and expiration date.
   (B)   The village is a tax-exempt entity. Each cardholder is responsible for
obtaining a credit if sales tax was charged.
   (C)   Card users must notify the Finance Director immediately when a card is
lost or stolen.
   (D)   Receipts must be obtained with all purchases, identifying the date and
itemized list of all purchases.
   (E)   Receipts must be turned into the Finance Director no later than one
business day after the purchase was made or the day he or she returns to work
in the event of travel expense.
(Res. 2013-011, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 35.48 RETURNS, CREDITS, OR DISPUTED ITEMS.
   (A)   Any item purchased with the card must be returned for credit. Do not
accept a refund in cash. Obtain a receipt for the credit like any other
purchase documentation.
   (B)   The card user is responsible for following up with the merchant on any
erroneous charges, disputed items, or returns as soon as possible. Disputed
billings can result from failure to receive the goods charged, defective
merchandise, incorrect amounts, duplicate charges, or credit not processed.
   (C)   If he or she has a problem with a purchased item from the use of the
card, he or she should first try to reach a resolution with the supplier that
provided the item.
(Res. 2013-011, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 35.49 RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FINANCE DIRECTOR.
   (A)   Receive and review the village’s billing statement;
   (B)   Match receipts submitted by card users with the statement of account;
   (C)   Verify that purchases are for village business;
   (D)   Verify that travel-related charges have been authorized by the Village
Manager;
   (E)   Make payments on a timely basis to ensure the village does not accrue
finance charges; and
   (F)   If the Finance Director cannot verify that the purchase made was
necessary and for official use, the purchase will be reviewed by the Village
Manager. If it is determined the purchase was not appropriate, then the card
user must provide a credit receipt showing the items have been returned or a
personal check must be issued for the full amount of that purchase.
(Res. 2013-011, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 35.50 AGREEMENT FOR AUTHORIZED USE.
   (A)   Village purchasing card policy.
   (B)   Card user agreement for authorized use of purchase card.
      I,                                               , have read and do
understand the village’s purchasing card policy.
      I further agree to abide by the terms and conditions in that policy and
understand that my use of the card is subject to revocation if I fail to act in
accordance with the policy.
      I also understand that if I engage in fraudulent misuse of the village’s
purchasing card, I will be held responsible for repayment of these funds and it
may result in employment termination.
   Printed name:                                                  
   Signature:                                                       
   Date:                                                              
(Res. 2013-011, passed 3-18-2013)
CHAPTER 36: TAXATION; FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Recovery of third party costs
   
36.02   Investment Policy adopted
   
36.03   Economic Development Plan adopted
   
36.04   Business Incentive Policy adopted
   
36.05   Schedule of fees and bond schedule adopted by reference
   
36.06   Policy for the deposit of public funds adopted
   
36.07   Service fee rates
   
36.08   Contracting for work
   
36.09   Credit card surcharge
Taxation
   
36.20   Motor vehicle license tax
   
36.21   Hotel tax imposed
   
36.22   Police services levy
   
36.23   Street levy
Funds
   
36.35   Construction Grant Fund 4201
   
36.36   Special Revenue Fund 2905
   
36.37   Mayor’s Court Computerization Fund
   
36.38   F 01 Internal Services Fund
   
36.39   H03 Water Tap Escrow Agency Fund
   
36.40   Fund B-06
   
36.41   Fund D01
   
36.42   Fund B05
   
36.43   ARP Fund 2152
   
36.44   OneOhio MOU Fund 2903
   
36.45   Grant construction funds related to Third Street and Franklin Phase I
Cross-reference:
   Contracts, bids, and proceedings, see §§
32.025 through
32.029
   Finance Director and purchase orders, see §
31.08
   Purchasing policies and procedures, see §§
35.20 through
35.30
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 RECOVERY OF THIRD PARTY COSTS.
   (A)   If an application or request filed with the village causes the village
to incur expenses for third party consultants (“third party costs”), such costs
shall be the obligation of the applicant or the person making the request.
   (B)   If an application or request filed with the village causes the village
to devote to the matter the time and professional skills of the Village
Engineer or Village Law Director or surveyor (or other member of a so-called
“learned professional” the members of which are licensed by or registered with
the State of Ohio), the expense to the village of that time shall be the
obligation of the applicant or the person making the request. Such expense
shall be computed by multiplying the number of hours the professional spent on
the matter by the per hour costs to the village of compensation of the
professional person.
   (C)   All application forms shall contain an explanation of this obligation
and shall require the signature of the applicant or person making the request
as an agreement to pay such costs and expenses. The village may require a
reasonable advance deposit of money to cover this obligation, with any surplus
to be refunded by the village at once and any deficiency to be paid by the
applicant immediately.
(Ord. 95-194, passed 12-4-1995)
§ 36.02 INVESTMENT POLICY ADOPTED.
   (A)   This section, in conjunction with the Ohio Revised Code, and any
applicable ordinances, as amended, will govern the investment activities of the
village. It will be review periodically to assure the flexibility necessary to
effectively manage the portfolio.
   (B)   The purpose of the investment account is to allow for the maximum
return on the village’s excess cash balances consistent with complete safety of
the portfolio’s principal value and liquidity desired.
   (C)   (1)   All investment activities will be undertaken by the Finance
Director, or those persons assigned thereby, to engage in investment
activities, utilizing all elements of prudence, judgment, and care. A current
list of individuals authorized to transact securities trades will be maintained
with the investment policy.
      (2)   The Finance Director shall establish additional procedures
consistent with this investment policy with respect to safekeeping, wire
transfer agreements, banking service contracts, collateral/depository
agreements, and internal controls.
   (D)   The village will be permitted to invest in any security specifically
authorized by R.C. §§ 135.14, 135.142, and 135.45, as amended. A copy of the
appropriate Ohio Revised Code sections will be kept with the Investment Policy.
   (E)   Investments in U.S. Treasury securities and those instruments
completely guaranteed by U.S. Treasury as payment of the principal and interest
may be made in any dollar amount. The village should normally seek to diversify
its holdings of other investments by avoiding concentrations of specific
issuers.
   (F)   Under the guidelines of this policy, no security will be purchased
that has a remaining term to final maturity of more than two years.
(Ord. 97-167, passed 11-17-1997; Ord. 99-170, passed - -1999)
§ 36.03 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN ADOPTED.
   The Economic Development Plan for the village, as presented by the Village
Manager, is hereby adopted by reference and shall be treated as if set forth in
full herein.
(Res. 97-120, passed 3-17-1997)
§ 36.04 BUSINESS INCENTIVE POLICY ADOPTED.
   (A)   It is the policy of the village to encourage existing, new, and
expanding businesses through negotiation of careful public investment in human
or physical infrastructure.
   (B)   Investment priority will be given to those businesses which:
      (1)   Are compatible with village development goals and improve the
economic diversity and quality of life of village citizens and visitors;
      (2)   Encourage capital investment and additional economic activity in
the community; and
      (3)   Enhance the revenue base of the local school system.
   (C)   Investment offers will be negotiated by designated representatives of
the village and the Wayne Local School System, and returned to the Village
Council, and where appropriate, to the Wayne Local School Board for final
approval.
   (D)   To be considered for incentives, each business must participate in a
review and negotiation process. Eligibility for business incentives will be
determined through a business evaluation process, including a cost-benefit
analysis of the qualitative and quantitative potential that will accrue to the
community based on the cost of providing incentives.
   (E)   A performance contract is required. The performance contract that
spells out the level of performance the business must achieve in order to
qualify and remain eligible for incentives. Failure to achieve performance
targets may result in the rebate or forfeiture of incentives.
(Res. 97-137, passed 6-2-1997)
§ 36.05 SCHEDULE OF FEES AND BOND SCHEDULE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The village’s schedule of fees and the Magistrate’s Court Bond Schedule are
hereby adopted by reference and shall be as set forth by the village. Fees
shall be available for public inspection in the office of the Village Clerk and
the Magistrate’s Court Bond Schedule shall be available for public inspection
in the office of the Court Clerk.
(Ord. 96-114, passed 4-15-1996; Ord. 98-164, passed 12-7-1998; Ord. 2000-72,
passed 12-18-2000; Ord. 2004-019, passed 8-2-2004; Ord. 2005-018, passed - -
2005; Ord. 2005-061, passed 12-19-2005; Ord. 2008-001, passed 1-22-2008; Ord.
2013-020, passed 6-3-2013; Ord. 2017-024, passed 6-5-2017; Ord. 2017-036,
passed 8-7-2017; Ord. 2017-066, passed 12-18-2017; Ord. 2018-012, passed 2-20-
2018; Ord. 2018-034, passed 8-6-2018; Ord. 2018-035, passed 8-6-2018; Ord.
2018-036, passed 9-4-2018; Ord. 2018-040, passed 9-4-2018; Ord. 2018-043,
passed 9-4-2018; Ord. 2018-047, passed 10-15-2018; Ord. 2018-052, passed 12-17-
2018; Ord. 2018-062, passed 12-17-2018; Ord. 2018-064, passed 12-17-2018; Ord.
2019-008, passed 2-19-2019; Ord. 2019-015, passed 3-18-2019; Ord. 2019-033,
passed 7-15-2019; Ord. 2019-063, passed 12-16-2019; Ord. 2020-024, passed 6-1-
2020; Ord. 2020-028, passed 7-20-2020; Ord. 2021-047, passed 11-15-2021; Ord.
2022-011, passed 4-18-2022; Ord. 2022-021, passed 5-16-2022; Ord. 2023-042,
passed 10-16-2023)
§ 36.06 POLICY FOR THE DEPOSIT OF PUBLIC FUNDS ADOPTED.
   The policy set forth in this section is hereby adopted in compliance with
R.C. § 9.38 and Auditor of State Bulletin 99-020. All public monies received by
the village shall be deposited no later than the next business day following
the day of receipt, if the total amount of such monies received equals or
exceeds $1,000. All public monies received by the village shall be deposited no
later than three business days following the day of receipt, if the total
amount of such monies received is less than $1,000.
(Ord. 2000-012, passed 2-22-2000)
§ 36.07 SERVICE FEE RATES.
   The established services fee rates shall be as follows:
   (A)   Police Department: $50 per hour for each police officer; and
   (B)   Public Works Department: $35 per hour for each employee.
(Ord. 2017-010, passed 2-21-2017)
§ 36.08 CONTRACTING FOR WORK.
   The village, by this vote of its Council, concurs in and adopts R.C. §
735.05 as set forth in the ordinance codified herein as exhibit “A”. For
purposes of the village, its Village Manager is the authorized contracting
employee as contemplated by R.C. § 735.05.
(Ord. 2007-027, passed 11-19-2007)
§ 36.09 CREDIT CARD SURCHARGE.
   (A)   The village authorize payment for fines, fees, water bills, and other
charges by way of credit card or debit card with those entities that the
village enters into a contract with.
   (B)   In the event any consumer pays a fine, fee, water bill, or other
charge by way of using a credit card, there shall be established a 2% surcharge
for the use of a credit card or debit card to pay said fine, fee, water bill,
or other charge.
   (C)   This section is in the best interests of the village and a proper
exercise of its police power in allowing payment in this method as it increases
the cash flow of the village and provides a convenience to its consumers.
(Ord. 2005-009, passed 3-21-2005)
TAXATION
§ 36.20 MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSE TAX.
   (A)   Levy of annual tax on motor vehicles.
      (1)   There is hereby levied an additional license tax, sometimes called
the third tax, upon the operation of motor vehicles on the public roads or
highways pursuant to the authority of R.C. § 4504.172 for the purposes of
paying the costs and expenses of enforcing and administering the tax provided
for in this section and to provide additional revenue for the purposes set
forth in R.C. § 4504.06; and for planning, constructing, improving,
maintaining, and repairing public roads, highways, and streets; maintaining and
repairing bridges and viaducts; paying the village’s portion of the
compensation, damages, costs, and expenses of planning, constructing,
reconstructing, improving, maintaining, and repairing roads and streets; paying
any costs apportioned to the village under R.C. § 4907.47; paying debt service
charges on notes or bonds of the village issued for such purposes; purchasing,
erecting, and maintaining street and traffic signs and markers; purchasing,
erecting, and maintaining traffic lights and signals; and to supplement revenue
already available for such purposes.
      (2)   Such tax shall be at the rate of $5 per motor vehicle on each and
every motor vehicle in the district of registration of which, as defined in
R.C. § 4503.10, is in the village. This is an additional tax to that tax
enacted in Ordinance No. 92-136.
      (3)   As used in this chapter, the term MOTOR VEHICLE means any and all
vehicles included within the definition of motor vehicle in R.C. §§ 4501.01 and
4505.01.
   (B)   Duration of tax. The tax imposed by division (A) of this section shall
apply to and be in effect for the registration year commencing July 1, 2005,
and shall continue in effect and application during each registration year
thereafter.
   (C)   Payment of tax. The tax imposed by this section shall be paid to the
state’s Registrar of Motor Vehicles or to a Deputy Registrar at the time
application for registration of a motor vehicle is made as provided in R.C. §
4503.10.
   (D)   Reductions and exemptions. The tax imposed by this section shall be
subject to the provisions of R.C. §§ 4503.101,4503.16, 4503.17, and 4503.171.
   (E)   Disposition of proceeds of tax. All monies derived from the tax levied
herein shall be used by the village only for the purposes described in division
(A) of this section.
(Res. 92-136, passed 1-19-1993; Ord. 2005-006, passed 2-7-2005)
§ 36.21 HOTEL TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   The village hereby imposes and levies an excise tax not to exceed 3%
on all transactions by which lodging by a hotel is or is to be furnished within
this village to transient guests pursuant to R.C. § 5739.09(C).
   (B)   Such excise tax is in addition to any tax previously imposed by the
County Board of Commissioners and by this municipality.
   (C)   Such tax shall be administered as provided by the village.
   (D)   The tax shall commence and be payable effective April 1, 1993.
   (E)   The failure of any hotel and/or lodging facility within the village to
impose and pay the excise tax shall constitute a minor misdemeanor, subject to
a fine not to exceed $100 per occurrence. Each day that the excise tax is not
paid in accordance with this section shall constitute a separate offense.
   (F)   The criminal penalties provided in this section shall be in addition
to any and all other civil and equitable remedies available to the village.
   (G)   This section shall be enforced by the appropriate administering
department and/or officer and/or the Police Department.
   (H)   The Village Manager shall be responsible for implementing all
provisions of this section and facilitating notice and enforcement of this
section through the appropriate administering department and/or officer.
(Ord. 93-105, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 36.22 POLICE SERVICES LEVY.
   (A)   It is necessary to levy a tax in excess of the ten mill limitation for
the benefit of the village to renew an existing levy.
   (B)   Said tax is for the purpose of providing and maintaining motor
vehicles, communications, and other equipment used directly in the operations
of a Police Department and the payment of salaries and benefits of permanent
police personnel, pursuant to R.C. § 5705.19(J).
   (C)   This tax is to be a renewal at a rate not exceeding 7.00 mills for
each one dollar of valuation, which amounts to $0.70 for each one hundred
dollars of valuation for five years commencing with tax year 2018. This tax is
a renewal of the existing levy of 7.00 mills.
   (D)   The question of the renewal tax levy shall be submitted to the
electors of the village at the election at the usual places in said village on
November 7, 2017.
   (E)   Said levy be placed upon the tax lists commencing with the tax year
2018.
(Res. 2017-014, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 36.23 STREET LEVY.
   (A)   It is necessary to levy a tax in excess of the ten mill limitation for
the benefit of the village to renew an existing levy.
   (B)   Said tax is for the purpose of providing for the general construction,
reconstruction, resurfacing, and repair of streets, roads, and bridges,
pursuant to R.C. § 5705.19(G).
   (C)   This tax is to be a renewal at a rate not exceeding 1.00 mill for each
one dollar of valuation, which amounts to $0.10 for each $100 of valuation for
five years commencing with tax year 2013. This tax is a renewal of the existing
levy of 1.00 mills.
   (D)   The question of the renewal tax levy shall be submitted to the
electors of the village at the election at the usual places in said village on
May 7, 2013.
   (E)   Said levy be placed upon the tax lists commencing with the tax year
2013.
(Res. 2013-002, passed - -2013)
FUNDS
§ 36.35 CONSTRUCTION GRANT FUND 4201.
   (A)   The Construction Grant Fund 4201 is hereby established in the village
treasury.
   (B)   Monies deposited in this Fund shall be used only for the purposes as
established by the terms of the OPWC grant.
(Ord. 2017-008, passed 2-21-2017)
§ 36.36 SPECIAL REVENUE FUND 2905.
   (A)   The Mayor’s Court Computerization Fund - Special Reserve Fund 2905 is
hereby established in the village treasury.
   (B)   Monies deposited in this Fund shall be disbursed upon an order of the
court and subject to an appropriation by Village Council in an amount no
greater than the actual cost to the court of procuring and maintaining computer
systems and making available computerized legal research services for the
Mayor’s Court.
(Ord. 2016-004, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 36.37 MAYOR’S COURT COMPUTERIZATION FUND.
   (A)   The Mayor’s Court Computerization Fund is hereby established in the
village treasury.
   (B)   Monies deposited in this Fund shall be disbursed upon an order of the
court and subject to an appropriation by Village Council in an amount no
greater than the actual cost to the court of procuring and maintaining computer
systems and making available computerized legal research services for the
village Mayor’s Court.
(Ord. 2015-018, passed 6-1-2015)
§ 36.38 F 01 INTERNAL SERVICES FUND.
   (A)   A new fund shall be established to be known as Fund F 01 Internal
Services Fund for the village’s Employee Health Reimbursement Program.
   (B)   The Finance Director is hereby authorized to manage and distribute
funds from said Fund for any lawful purpose.
   (C)   This Fund will be established by the transfer of $5,000 from the
General Fund A 01 to Fund F 01, Internal Service Fund.
   (D)   To maintain the balance of $5,000 in the F 01 Internal Service Fund,
monies from one or more funds will be transferred as appropriate.
(Ord. 2012-046, passed 10-1-2012)
§ 36.39 H03 WATER TAP ESCROW AGENCY FUND.
   (A)   A new fund shall be established to be known as Fund H03 Water Tap
Escrow Agency Fund.
   (B)   The Finance Director is hereby authorized to manage and distribute
funds from said Fund for any lawful purpose associated with the Fund.
(Ord. 2012-051, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 36.40 FUND B-06.
   (A)   A new fund shall be established to be known as Fund B-06 (State of
Ohio Grants).
   (B)   All monies received from state grants shall be deposited in said Fund.
   (C)   The Finance Director is hereby authorized to make deposits to and
distribute funds from said Fund for any lawful purpose under the terms of the
relevant grants.
(Ord. 2011-022, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 36.41 FUND D01.
   (A)   A new fund shall be established to be known as Fund D01 (Issue 2
Grants).
   (B)   All monies received from Issue 2 grants shall be deposited in said
Fund.
   (C)   The Finance Director is hereby authorized to make deposits to and
distribute funds from said Fund for any lawful purpose under the terms of the
relevant grants.
(Ord. 2010-044, passed 12-20-2010)
§ 36.42 FUND B05.
   (A)   A new fund shall be established to be known as Fund B05 (Federal
Grants).
   (B)   All monies received from federal grants shall be deposited in said
Fund.
   (C)   The Finance Director is hereby authorized to make deposits to and
distribute funds from said Fund for any lawful purpose under the terms of the
relevant grants.
(Ord. 2009-017, passed 6-15-2009)
§ 36.43 ARP FUND 2152.
   (A)   The ARP Fund 2152 is hereby established in the village treasury.
   (B)   All ARP funds received shall be placed in ARP Fund 2152. Monies
deposited in this fund shall be used only for the purposes permitted pursuant
to state and federal law.
(Ord. 2021-022, passed 6-7-2021)
§ 36.44 ONEOHIO MOU FUND 2903.
   (A)   The OneOhio MOU Fund 2903, Opioid Settlement Fund is hereby
established in the village treasury.
   (B)   All OneOhio MOU funds received shall be placed in the OneOhio MOU Fund
2903, Opioid Settlement Fund. Monies deposited in this fund shall be used only
for the approved purposes as required by the OneOhio MOU.
(Ord. 2022-036, passed 8-15-2022)
§ 36.45 GRANT CONSTRUCTION FUNDS RELATED TO THIRD STREET AND FRANKLIN PHASE I.
   (A)   The following funds are hereby established in the village treasury:
      (1)   Third Street Construction Grant Fund - Fund 2062;
      (2)   Franklin Phase I Construction Grant Fund - Fund 2063; and
      (3)   Third Street Federal Grant Fund - Fund 2052.
   (B)   Monies deposited in these respective funds shall be used only for the
purposes as established by the terms of the respective grants.
   (C)   The Village Manager is further authorized to execute any related grant
agreements.
(Ord. 2023-041, passed 9-18-2023)
CHAPTER 37: VILLAGE POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
37.01   Annexation policy
   
37.02   Use of the Council Chambers
   
37.03   Citizen Participation Plan Guidelines adopted
   
37.04   Distribution of advertising materials/free newspapers/free periodicals
   
37.05   Competitive bidding policy
   
37.06   Public records policy
   
37.07   Fixed asset policy
   
37.08   System back-up policy and procedures
   
37.09   Motor vehicle accident services
Identity Theft Policy
   
37.20   Background
   
37.21   Purpose
   
37.22   Scope
   
37.23   Definition
   
37.24   Hard copy distribution
   
37.25   Electronic distribution
   
37.26   Covered accounts
   
37.27   Red flags
   
37.28   Suspicious documents
   
37.29   Suspicious personal identifying information
   
37.30   Unusual use or activity of the covered account
   
37.31   Responding to red flags
   
37.32   Periodic updates to plan
   
37.33   Program administration
Snow Emergency Policy
   
37.45   Authority
   
37.46   Classification
   
37.47   Notification to the public
   
37.48   Snow removal priority list
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.01 ANNEXATION POLICY.
   (A)   Policy approved and adopted. The following annexation policy for the
village is hereby expressly approved and adopted.
   (B)   Annexation policy.
      (1)   It is the policy of the village to invite residents of Wayne
Township to present petitions for annexation to the village. The village shall
receive all such petitions and will act upon them consistent with the best
interests of the residents of the village, the petitioner, and other affected
parties.
      (2)   Most favorable consideration will be given to annexation proposals
which:
         (a)   Result in economic growth and development, expansion of tax
base, and creation of new jobs in the village;
         (b)   Conform to the village’s Comprehensive Plan with regard to
infrastructure, land use and development policy, and development standards;
and/or
         (c)   Provide essential housing, goods, services, natural and historic
resources, and recreation opportunities to present and future citizens of the
village.
      (3)   Interested residents are invited to contact the office of the
Village Manager who will render all possible administrative assistance.
(Res. 96-110, passed 2-20-1996)
§ 37.02 USE OF THE COUNCIL CHAMBERS.
   The Village Council hereby sets forth the following policies to govern the
use of the Council Chambers by others.
   (A)   Application for use of Council Chambers.
   VILLAGE OF WAYNESVILLE
   291 CHURCH STREET
   WAYNESVILLE, OHIO 45068
   513-897-8015
   APPLICATION FOR USE OF COUNCIL CHAMBERS
   ORGANIZATION                                                                                                         
   NUMBER OF
PARTICIPANTS                                                                                     
   DATE(S)
REQUESTED                                                                                                
   TIME REQUESTED
FROM                                             TO                                         
   PURPOSE                                                                                                                    
   APPLICANTS NAME (person
responsible)                                                                     
   ADDRESS                                                                                                                    
   CITY                                        STATE                                        ZIP                           
   HOME PHONE                                           OFFICE
PHONE                                        
   I agree to take full responsibility for my actions of my group and agree to
abide by all village rules, regulations, and ordinances.
   Signature                                 Date
   (B)   Generally.
      (1)   The use of the Council Chambers is a privilege and may be withdrawn
if any group fails to meet the standards set forth.
      (2)   Official village-related activities and meetings shall have first
call on facilities; otherwise, assignment of facilities shall be based upon
order request.
      (3)   Anyone wishing to utilize the facilities should schedule such use
at least 30 days in advance with the Clerk of Council.
      (4)   A resident group is defined as a group whose membership is open to
village residents, and has members who reside within the village.
      (5)   A group may be denied use of the facilities if the Village Manager
deems it in the best interests of the village to do so.
      (6)   The use of public meeting areas is intended for resident groups of
a private or non-profit nature only. No commercial or for-profit use is
permitted.
      (7)   Each resident group is permitted to utilize the Council Chambers no
more than once per month. Council Chambers is available Monday through Friday,
8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
      (8)   If a meeting is cancelled, the Clerk’s office must be notified at
897-8015 prior to close of business (5:00 p.m.) on the day of the meeting.
      (9)   Groups shall be responsible for leaving the facility clean, and the
heat, air conditioning, lights, doors, and windows as they were when the group
entered. If the facility is not returned to its pre- meeting condition, the
deposit will be forfeited.
   (C)   Fees required.  
      (1)   All resident groups shall pay a non-refundable fee as set forth by
the village’s fee schedule, as adopted by reference in §
36.05, payable at the time of scheduling.
      (2)   Meetings will be limited to the period of time requested above.
Groups will be charged an amount as set forth in the village’s fee schedule, as
adopted by reference in §
36.05, for any time it remains on the premises beyond the schedule time.
   (D)   Deposit; damages.
      (1)   In addition to the fee required in division (C) of this section,
any resident group is required to deposit with the County Clerk, at the time of
scheduling their first meeting, a deposit in the amount as set forth in the
village’s fee schedule, as adopted by reference in §
36.05. If the room is not returned to its pre-meeting condition, the deposit
shall be forfeited, and the deposit is turned over to the General Fund of the
village.
      (2)   The resident group will be responsible for any replacement/repairs
costs for any damages that occur during their use of the facility.
(Res. 97-134, passed 5-19-1997)
§ 37.03 CITIZEN PARTICIPATION PLAN GUIDELINES ADOPTED.
   (A)   The village hereby approves and adopts the Citizen Participation Plan
Guidelines, attached to Resolution 98-102. Such guidelines are hereby adopted
by reference and shall be treated as if set forth in full herein.
   (B)   It shall not be a requirement of the village that any individual or
entity desiring to rezone real estate shall adhere to, abide by, or participate
in the Citizen Participation Plan Guidelines adopted in this section.
   (C)   The use of the Citizen Participation Plan Guidelines adopted in this
section is strictly voluntary, but is shall be the policy of the village that
in the event any individual wishes to avail himself or herself of this
procedure, the village shall cooperate and assist in attempting to make its
facilities available in furtherance of the goals in the Citizen Participation
Plan Guidelines.
(Res. 98-102, passed 1-20-1998)
Cross-reference:
   Zoning Code, see
Ch. 153
§ 37.04 DISTRIBUTION OF ADVERTISING MATERIALS/FREE NEWSPAPERS/FREE PERIODICALS.
   (A)   Any corporate entity, individual, or partnership that desires to
distribute advertising materials or free newspapers or free periodicals within
the village must obtain a permit from the village prior to distributing same.
   (B)   (1)   The application for the permit shall set forth the name,
address, and telephone number of the entity or individual seeking the permit.
In addition, the applicant for the permit shall recite who is to be
distributing the materials within the village.
      (2)   If the items are distributed by throwing them from a moving
vehicle, proof of liability insurance of $250,000 for each person and $500,000
per accident must be provided and maintained throughout the holding of any
permit.
      (3)   All applicants must acknowledge that its applicants, agents, or
employees shall obey all traffic laws, including staying within marked lanes.
      (4)   It is expressly prohibited by this section to attempt to avoid its
effect by the use of independent contractors. Any entity, firm, or individual
obtaining a permit shall be responsible for the actual distribution of the
materials.
   (C)   (1)   The village shall make available upon request the name, address,
and telephone number of any distributor holding a valid permit to circulate
within the village.
      (2)   Any citizen, partnership, or corporation within the village, be
they a property owner or tenant, may contact the distributor named on any
advertising permit for the purpose of advising the distributor to cease
delivery of any unwanted materials to a home or business. Upon receiving such a
request, the distributor shall immediately cease delivery of unwanted items.
      (3)   In the event a distributor fails to cease delivery of items after
receipt of a request to do so, the Village Manager may suspend, revoke, or
refuse to renew the permit to advertise of said distributor.
   (D)   The initial permit shall be $100 and cover a period of 365 days. All
permit holders shall reimburse the village the sum of $15 for each certified
mail notice.
   (E)   Nothing contained within this section shall apply to political
advertising, local school circulators, charitable organizations, or non-profit
organizations.
   (F)   Whoever violates any provisions of this section shall be punished by
way of a fine of not more than $100 per day for each offense.
(Ord. 99-122, passed 6-7-1999)
§ 37.05 COMPETITIVE BIDDING POLICY.
   (A)   Pursuant to R.C. § 9.312, the village adopts a policy that it awards
contracts where competitive bidding is required to the lowest responsive and
responsible bidder.
   (B)   For purposes of the above policy, a bid shall be considered responsive
if the proposal responds to bid specifications in all material aspects and
contains no irregularities or deviations from the specifications which would
affect the amount of the bid or otherwise give the bidder a competitive
advantage.
   (C)   For purposes of the above policy, the following factors may be
considered for purposes of determining if a bidder is responsible:
      (1)   The experience of the bidder;
      (2)   The bidder’s financial condition;
      (3)   The bidder’s conduct and performance on previous contracts;
      (4)   The bidder’s facilities;
      (5)   The bidder’s management skills; and
      (6)   The bidder’s ability to execute the contract properly.
   (D)   If an apparent low bidder is found not responsive or responsible, such
bidder shall be notified by the Village Manager or his or her designee of that
finding and the reason for it. Such notice shall be sent by certified mail.
   (E)   If a contract is awarded to a bidder other than the apparent low
bidder or bidders, the Village Manager or his or her designee shall meet with
the apparent low bidder or bidders upon the filing of a written protest
received within five days of the notification required in division (D) of this
section. No final award of the contract shall be made until the Village Manager
affirms or reverses his or her previous decision.
   (F)   This procedure is not subject to R.C. Chapter 119.
   (G)   The Village Manager is hereby authorized to purchase supplies or
materials or to provide for labor under a contract without advertising and
competitive bidding, provided that the total expenditure does not exceed
$150,000. When the expenditure of funds for the purchase of supplies or
materials, or to provide labor for any work to be performed under a contract,
exceeds $25,000, such expenditure shall first be authorized and directed by
ordinance passed by the Council.
(Res. 2002-020, passed 7-15-2002; Ord. 2016-047, passed 12-5-2016)
§ 37.06 PUBLIC RECORDS POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the policy of the village that openness leads to a
better informed citizenry, which leads to better government and better public
policy. It is the policy of the village to strictly adhere to the State’s
Public Records Act. All exemptions to openness are to be construed in their
narrowest sense and any denial of public records in response to a valid request
must be accompanied by an explanation, including legal authority, as outlined
in the Ohio Revised Code. If the request is in writing, the explanation must
also be in writing.
   (B)   Public records. RECORDS shall have the same meaning as found in the
Ohio Revised Code, All records of the village are public unless they are
specifically exempt from disclosure under the Ohio Revised Code. It is the
policy of the village that, as required by state law, records will be organized
and maintained so that they are readily available for inspection and copying.
   (C)   Record requests.
      (1)   Although no specific language is required to make a request, the
requester must at least identify the records requested with sufficient clarity
to allow the public office to identify, retrieve, and review the records. If it
is not clear what records are being sought, the records custodian should
contact the requester for clarification, and should assist the requestor in
revising the request.
      (2)   The requester does not have to put a records request in writing,
and does not have to provide his or her identity or the intended use of the
requested public record, except as shall be provided for in the Ohio Revised
Code.
      (3)   Public records are to be available for inspection during regular
business hours, with the exception of published holidays. Public records must
be made available for inspection promptly. Copies of public records must be
made available within a reasonable period of time. “Prompt” and “reasonable”
take into account the volume of records requested; the proximity of the
location where the records are stored; and the necessity for any legal review
of the records requested.
      (4)   Any denial of public records requested must be done in accordance
with the Ohio Revised
Code.
   (D)   Cost. Those seeking public records will be charged only the actual
cost of making copies.
      (1)   The charge for paper copies is $0.05 per page.
      (2)   The charge for downloaded computer files to a compact disc is $1
per disc.
      (3)   There is no charge for documents e-mailed.
      (4)   Requesters may ask that documents be mailed to them. They will be
charged the actual cost of the postage and mailing supplies.
      (5)   The village may require the requester to pay in advance the cost
involved in providing the copy of the public record in accordance with the
choice of format made by the requester.
(Res. 2016-041, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 37.07 FIXED ASSET POLICY.
   The fixed asset policy for the village is hereby approved substantially in
the form of the policy attached to the ordinance codified herein as exhibit “A”
and incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 2013-037, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 37.08 SYSTEM BACK-UP POLICY AND PROCEDURES.
   The System Back-Up Policy and Procedures, as attached to the ordinance
codified herein as exhibit “A” and incorporated herein by reference, are hereby
adopted.
(Ord. 2013-041, passed 8-19-2013)
§ 37.09 MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT SERVICES.
   (A)   The Village Council shall establish fees and make said fees part of
its Fee Schedule for the delivery of Motor Vehicle Accident Services to cover
personnel, supplies, and equipment to the scene of a motor vehicle accident
within the village.
   (B)   The fees shall be billed to any owner of an at-fault vehicle involved
in a motor vehicle accident in the village if said owner of the vehicle is not
a resident of the village or a property owner in the village.
(Ord. 2008-003, passed 2-4-2008)
IDENTITY THEFT POLICY
§ 37.20 BACKGROUND.
   The risk to the municipality, its employees, and customers from data loss
and identity theft is of significant concern to the municipality and can be
reduced only through the combined efforts of every employee and contractor.
(Res. 2009-041, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 37.21 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The municipality adopts this sensitive information policy to help
protect employees, customers, contractors, and the municipality from damages
related to the loss or misuse of sensitive information.
   (B)   This policy will:
      (1)   Define sensitive information;
      (2)   Describe the physical security of data when it is printed on paper;
      (3)   Describe the electronic security of data when stored and
distributed; and
      (4)   Place the municipality in compliance with state and federal law
regarding identity theft protection.
   (C)   This policy enables the municipality to protect existing customers,
reducing risk from identity fraud, and minimize potential damage to the
municipality from fraudulent new accounts. The program will help the
municipality:
      (1)   Identify risks that signify potentially fraudulent activity within
new or existing covered accounts;
      (2)   Detect risks when they occur in covered accounts;
      (3)   Respond to risks to determine if fraudulent activity has occurred
and act if fraud has been attempted or committed; and
      (4)   Update the program periodically, including reviewing the accounts
that are covered and the identified risks that are part of the program.
(Res. 2009-041, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 37.22 SCOPE.
   This policy and protection program applies to employees, contractors,
consultants, temporary workers, and other workers at the municipality,
including all personnel affiliated with third parties.
(Res. 2009-041, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 37.23 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SENSITIVE INFORMATION. Includes the following items whether stored in
electronic or printed format:
      (1)   Credit card information, including any of the following:
         (a)   Credit card number (in part or whole);
         (b)   Credit card expiration date;
         (c)   Cardholder name; and
         (d)   Cardholder address.
      (2)   Tax identification numbers, including:
         (a)   Social Security number;
         (b)   Business identification number; and
         (c)   Employer identification numbers.
      (3)   Payroll information, including, among other information:
         (a)   Paychecks; and
         (b)   Pay stubs.
      (4)   Cafeteria plan check requests and associated paperwork;
      (5)   Medical information for any employee or customer, including but not
limited to:
         (a)   Doctor names and claims;
         (b)   Insurance claims;
         (c)   Prescriptions; and
         (d)   Any related personal medical information.
      (6)   Other personal information belonging to any customer, employee, or
contractor, examples of which include:
         (a)   Date of birth;
         (b)   Address;
         (c)   Phone numbers;
         (d)   Maiden name;
         (e)   Names; and
         (f)   Customer number.
      (7)   Municipal personnel are encouraged to use common sense judgment in
securing confidential information to the proper extent. Furthermore, this
section should be read in conjunction with the Ohio Public Records Act, being
R.C. Chapter 149 and the municipality’s public records policy. If an employee
is uncertain of the sensitivity of a particular piece of information, he or she
should contact their supervisor.
(Res. 2009-041, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 37.24 HARD COPY DISTRIBUTION.
   Each employee and contractor performing work for the municipality will
comply with the following policies.
   (A)   File cabinets, desk drawers, overhead cabinets, and any other storage
space containing documents with sensitive information will be locked when not
in use.
   (B)   Storage rooms containing documents with sensitive information and
record retention areas will be locked at the end of each workday or when
unsupervised.
   (C)   Desks, workstations, work areas, printers and fax machines, and common
shared work areas will be cleared of all documents containing sensitive
information when not in use.
   (D)   Whiteboards, dry-erase boards, writing tablets, and the like in common
shared work areas will be erased, removed, or shredded when not in use.
   (E)   When documents containing sensitive information are discarded, they
will be placed inside a locked shred bin or immediately shredded using a
mechanical cross cut or Department of Defense (DOD) approved shredding device.
Locked shred bins are labeled “confidential paper shredding and recycling”
Municipal records, however, may only be destroyed in accordance with the
municipality’s records retention policy.
(Res. 2009-041, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 37.25 ELECTRONIC DISTRIBUTION.
   Each employee and contractor performing work for the municipality will
comply with the following policies.
   (A)   Internally, sensitive information may be transmitted using approved
municipal e-mail. All sensitive information must be encrypted when stored in an
electronic format.
   (B)   Any sensitive information sent externally must be encrypted and
password protected and only to approved recipients. Additionally, a statement
such as this should be included in the e-mail:
“This message may contain confidential and/or proprietary information and is
intended for the person/entity to whom it was originally addressed. Any use by
others is strictly prohibited.”
(Res. 2009-041, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 37.26 COVERED ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   A covered account includes any account that involves or is designed to
permit multiple payments or transactions.
   (B)   Every new and existing customer account that meets the following
criteria is covered by this program:
      (1)   Business, personal, and household accounts for which there is a
reasonably foreseeable risk of identity theft; or
      (2)   Business, personal, and household accounts for which there is a
reasonably foreseeable risk to the safety or soundness of the municipality from
identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance, reputation, or
litigation risks.
(Res. 2009-041, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 37.27 RED FLAGS.
   (A)   The following red flags are potential indicators of fraud.
   (B)   Any time a red flag, or a situation closely resembling a red flag, is
apparent, it should be investigated for verification:
      (1)   Alerts, notifications, or warnings from a consumer reporting
agency;
      (2)   A fraud or active duty alert included with a consumer report;
      (3)   A notice of credit freeze from a consumer reporting agency in
response to a request for a consumer report; or
      (4)   A notice of address discrepancy from a consumer reporting agency as
defined in § 334.82(b) of the Fairness and Accuracy in Credit Transactions Act,
being 15 U.S.C. § 1681.
   (C)   Red flags also include consumer reports that indicate a pattern of
activity inconsistent with the history and usual pattern of activity of an
applicant or customer, such as:
      (1)   A recent and significant increase in the volume of inquiries;
      (2)   An unusual number of recently established credit relationships;
      (3)   A material change in the use of credit, especially with respect to
recently established credit relationships; or
      (4)   An account that was closed for cause or identified for abuse of
account privileges by a financial institution or creditor.
(Res. 2009-041, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 37.28 SUSPICIOUS DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   Documents provided for identification that appear to have been altered
or forged.
   (B)   The photograph or physical description on the identification is not
consistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer presenting the
identification.
   (C)   Other information on the identification is not consistent with
information provided by the person opening a new covered account or customer
presenting the identification.
   (D)   Other information on the identification is not consistent with readily
accessible information that is on file with the municipality, such as a
signature card or a recent check.
   (E)   An application appears to have been altered or forged, or gives the
appearance of having been destroyed and reassembled.
(Res. 2009-041, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 37.29 SUSPICIOUS PERSONAL IDENTIFYING INFORMATION.
   (A)   Personal identifying information provided is inconsistent when
compared against external information sources used by the municipality. For
example:
      (1)   The address does not match any address in the consumer report;
      (2)   The Social Security number (SSN) has not been issued or is listed
on the Social Security Administration’s Death Master File; or
      (3)   Personal identifying information provided by the customer is not
consistent with other personal identifying information provided by the
customer. For example, there is a lack of correlation between the SSN range and
date of birth.
   (B)   Personal identifying information provided is associated with known
fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third-party sources used by the
municipality. For example, the address on an application is the same as the
address provided on a fraudulent application.
   (C)   Personal identifying information provided is of a type commonly
associated with fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third-party
sources used by the municipality. For example:
      (1)   The address on an application is fictitious, a mail drop, or a
prison; or
      (2)   The phone number is invalid or is associated with a pager or
answering service.
   (D)   The SSN provided is the same as that submitted by other persons
opening an account or other customers.
   (E)   The address or telephone number provided is the same as or similar to
the address or telephone number submitted by an unusually large number of other
customers or other persons opening accounts.
   (F)   The customer or the person opening the covered account fails to
provide all required personal identifying information on an application or in
response to notification that the application is incomplete.
   (G)   Personal identifying information provided is not consistent with
personal identifying information that is on file with the municipality.
   (H)   When using security questions (mother’s maiden name, pet’s name, and
the like), the person opening the covered account or the customer cannot
provide authenticating information beyond that which generally would be
available from a wallet or consumer report.
(Res. 2009-041, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 37.30 UNUSUAL USE OR ACTIVITY OF THE COVERED ACCOUNT.
   (A)   Shortly following the notice of a change of address for a covered
account, the municipality receives a request for new, additional, or
replacement goods or services, or for the addition of authorized users on the
account.
   (B)   A new revolving credit account is used in a manner commonly associated
with known patterns of fraud patterns. For example, the customer fails to make
the first payment or makes an initial payment but no subsequent payments.
   (C)   A covered account is used in a manner that is not consistent with
established patterns of activity on the account. There is, for example:
      (1)   Nonpayment when there is no history of late or missed payments; and
      (2)   A material change in purchasing or usage patterns.
   (D)   A covered account that has been inactive for a reasonably lengthy
period of time is used (taking into consideration the type of account, the
expected pattern of usage and other relevant factors).
   (E)   Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as undeliverable
although transactions continue to be conducted in connection with the
customer’s covered account.
   (F)   The municipality is notified that the customer is not receiving paper
account statements.
   (G)   The municipality is notified of unauthorized charges or transactions
in connection with a customer’s covered account.
   (H)   The municipality receives notice from customers, victims of identity
theft, law enforcement authorities, or other persons regarding possible
identity theft in connection with covered accounts held by the municipality.
   (I)   The municipality is notified by a customer, a victim of identity
theft, a law enforcement authority, or any other person that it has opened a
fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity theft.
(Res. 2009-041, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 37.31 RESPONDING TO RED FLAGS.
   (A)   Once potentially fraudulent activity is detected, an employee must act
quickly as a rapid appropriate response can protect customers and the
municipality from damages and loss.
   (B)   Once potentially fraudulent activity is detected, gather all related
documentation and write a description of the situation. Present this
information to the designated authority for determination.
   (C)   The designated authority will complete additional authentication to
determine whether the attempted transaction was fraudulent or authentic.
   (D)   If a transaction is determined to be fraudulent, appropriate actions
must be taken immediately. Actions may include:
      (1)   Canceling the transaction;
      (2)   Notifying and cooperating with appropriate law enforcement;
      (3)   Determining the extent of liability of the municipality; and
      (4)   Notifying the actual customer that fraud has been attempted.
(Res. 2009-041, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 37.32 PERIODIC UPDATES TO PLAN.
   (A)   At periodic intervals established in the program, or as required, the
program will be reevaluated to determine whether all aspects of the program are
up to date and applicable in the current business environment.
   (B)   Periodic reviews will include an assessment of which accounts are
covered by the program.
   (C)   As part of the review, red flags may be revised, replaced, or
eliminated. Defining new red flags may also be appropriate.
   (D)   Actions to take in the event that fraudulent activity is discovered
may also require revision to reduce damage to the municipality and its
customers.
(Res. 2009-041, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 37.33 PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Involvement of management.
      (1)   The identity theft prevention program shall not be operated as an
extension to existing fraud prevention programs, and its importance warrants
the highest level of attention.
      (2)   The identity theft prevention program is the responsibility of the
governing body. Approval of the initial plan must be appropriately documented
and maintained.
      (3)   Operational responsibility of the program is delegated to the
Village Manager or designee.
   (B)   Staff training.
      (1)   Staff training shall be conducted for all employees, officials, and
contractors for whom it is reasonably foreseeable that they may come into
contact with accounts or personally identifiable information that may
constitute a risk to the municipality or its customers,
      (2)   The Village Manager or designee is responsible for ensuring
identity theft training for all requisite employees and contractors.
      (3)   Employees must receive annual training in all elements of this
policy.
      (4)   To ensure maximum effectiveness, employees may continue to receive
additional training as changes to the program are made.
   (C)   Oversight of service provider arrangements.
      (1)   It is the responsibility of the municipality to ensure that the
activities of all service providers are conducted in accordance with reasonable
policies and procedures designed to detect, prevent, and mitigate the risk of
identity theft.
      (2)   A service provider that maintains its own identity theft prevention
program, consistent with the guidance of the red flag rules and validated by-
appropriate due diligence, may be considered to be meeting these requirements.
      (3)   Any specific requirements should be specifically addressed in the
appropriate contract arrangements.
(Res. 2009-041, passed 11-16-2009)
SNOW EMERGENCY POLICY
§ 37.45 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Safety Director shall have the authority to declare a snow
emergency in the village, with prior notification provided to the Village
Manager before each declaration.
   (B)   The Safety Director shall have the authority to order the removal of
parked vehicles from designated snow emergency routes when snowfall
accumulation exceeds, or is expected to exceed, two inches in a 24-hour period.
   (C)   The Safety Director shall have the authority to order the removal of
vehicles parked on any street in the village as necessary to ensure public
safety and efficient snow removal operations.
(Ord. 2003-013, passed 4-21-2003)
§ 37.46 CLASSIFICATION.
   Snow emergencies will be classified as follows.
   (A)   Level 1. Roadways are hazardous with blowing and drifting snow. Roads
may also be icy. Drive cautiously.
   (B)   Level 2. Roadways are hazardous with blowing and drifting snow, or
ice. Unnecessary travel on the roadways should be curtailed. Employees should
contact their employer to determine if it is necessary to report to work.
   (C)   Level 3. Roadways are closed to non-emergency personnel. Unnecessary
travel on the roadways is prohibited. Employees should contact their employer
to determine if it is necessary to report to work.
(Ord. 2003-013, passed 4-21-2003)
§ 37.47 NOTIFICATION TO THE PUBLIC.
   (A)   Notification to the public of snow emergency may be made by news
release to television, radio, newspaper, or other method acceptable to the
Village Manager. News release shall be approved by the Safety Director prior to
issuance.
   (B)   Within 24 hours of the issuance of a snow emergency news release, an
updated news release will be issued to advise the public if the emergency is to
be continued at the same level, upgraded or downgraded to another level, or
discontinued.
(Ord. 2003-013, passed 4-21-2003)
§ 37.48 SNOW REMOVAL PRIORITY LIST.
   (A)   Plow and treat high use through streets and hills in the following
order:
      (1)   Through streets.
         (a)   Plow and apply one layer of road salt at the rate of 20
particles per square foot:
North Street and Dayton Road
Franklin Road (Dayton Road to US 42)
Lytle Road
Miami Street (Fourth to US 42)
Chapman Street
Main Street (Wilkerson Lane to US 42)
Old Stage Road
Preston Road
Franklin Road (Dayton Road to Corp line)
All other through streets
 
         (b)   Replow as needed to keep these streets passable.
      (2)   Local streets, dead end streets, and cul-de-sacs.
         (a)   After the first treatment of the above, plow without treating
the following local streets, dead ends, and cul-de-sacs:
Route 1 Route 2 Route 3
Route 1                    Route 2                   Route 3
High Street                Ellis Drive               Third Street
South Street               Thatcher Hill Subdivision Fourth Street
Mill Street                Waterford Place           Fifth Street
                           Subdivision
                                                     Sixth Street
                           Rosewood Meadows          Royston Drive
Victoria Place Subdivision Subdivision               Robindale Drive
                                                     All other dead end streets
                                                     and cul-de-sacs
 
   (B)   Upon termination of the snow fall, treat all streets with road salt at
the rate of five to seven particles per square foot.
(Ord. 2003-013, passed 4-21-2003)
CHAPTER 38: VILLAGE INCOME TAX
Section
   
38.01   Authority
   
38.02   Definitions
   
38.03   Imposition of tax
   
38.04   Collection at source
   
38.05   Annual return; filing
   
38.06   Credit for tax paid to other municipalities
   
38.07   Estimated taxes
   
38.08   Rounding of amounts
   
38.09   Requests for refunds
   
38.10   Second municipality imposing tax after time period allowed for refund
   
38.11   Amended returns
   
38.12   Limitations
   
38.13   Audits
   
38.14   Service of assessment
   
38.15   Administration of claims
   
38.16   Tax information confidential
   
38.17   Fraud
   
38.18   Interest
   
38.19   Authority of Tax Administrator; verification of information
   
38.20   Request for opinion of the Tax Administrator
   
38.21   Board of Tax Review
   
38.22   Authority to create rules and regulations
   
38.23   Rental and leased property
   
38.24   Collection of tax after termination of ordinance
   
38.25   Adoption of RITA rules and regulations
   
38.26   Election to be subject to R.C. §§ 718.80 to 718.95
 
   
38.99   Penalty
§ 38.01 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   To provide funds for the purposes of general municipal operations and
maintenance and the elimination of deficits in village funds, the village
hereby levies an annual municipal income tax on income, qualifying wages,
commissions and other compensation, and on net profits as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The annual tax is levied at a rate of 0.75%. The tax is levied at a
uniform rate on all persons residing in or earning or receiving income in
village. The tax is levied on income, qualifying wages, commissions and other
compensation, and on net profits as hereinafter provided in §
38.03 and other sections as they may apply.
   (C)   The tax on income and the withholding tax established by this Chapter
38 are authorized by Article XVIII, Section 3 of the Ohio Constitution. The tax
is levied in accordance with, and is intended to be consistent with, the
provisions and limitations of R.C. § 718.
(Ord. 2015-032, passed 9-21-2015; Ord. 2020-054, passed 11-16-2020)
§ 38.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Any term used in this chapter that is not otherwise defined in this
chapter has the same meaning as when used in a comparable context in laws of
the United States relating to federal income taxation or in R.C. Title 57,
unless a different meaning is clearly required. If a term used in this chapter
that is not otherwise defined in this chapter is used in a comparable context
in both the laws of the United States relating to federal income tax and in
R.C. Title 57 and the use is not consistent, then the use of the term in the
laws of the United States relating to federal income tax shall control over the
use of the term in R.C. Title 57.
   (B)   The singular shall include the plural, and the masculine shall include
the feminine and the gender-neutral.
   (C)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME. For a person required to file as a C
corporation, or for a person that has elected to be taxed as a C corporation
under the definition of “net profit”, means a C corporation’s federal taxable
income before net operating losses and special deductions as determined under
the Internal Revenue Code, adjusted as follows.
         (a)   Deduct intangible income to the extent included in federal
taxable income. The deduction shall be allowed regardless of whether the
intangible income relates to assets used in a trade or business or assets held
for the production of income.
         (b)   Add an amount equal to 5% of intangible income deducted under
division (a) of this definition, but excluding that portion of intangible
income directly related to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of property
described in § 1221 of the Internal Revenue Code;
         (c)   Add any losses allowed as a deduction in the computation of
federal taxable income if the losses directly relate to the sale, exchange, or
other disposition of an asset described in §§ 1221 or 1231 of the Internal
Revenue Code;
         (d)   1.   Except as provided in division (d)2. of this definition,
deduct income and gain included in federal taxable income to the extent the
income and gain directly relate to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of
an asset described in §§ 1221 or 1231 of the Internal Revenue Code.
            2.   Division (d)1. above does not apply to the extent the income
or gain is income or gain described in §§ 1245 or 1250 of the Internal Revenue
Code.
         (e)   Add taxes on or measured by net income allowed as a deduction in
the computation of federal taxable income;
         (f)   In the case of a real estate investment trust or regulated
investment company, add all amounts with respect to dividends to, distributions
to, or amounts set aside for or credited to the benefit of investors and
allowed as a deduction in the computation of federal taxable income;
         (g)   Deduct, to the extent not otherwise deducted or excluded in
computing federal taxable income, any income derived from a transfer agreement
or from the enterprise transferred under that agreement under R.C. § 4313.02;
         (h)   Deduct exempt income to the extent not otherwise deducted or
excluded in computing adjusted federal taxable income.
         (i)   Deduct any net profit of a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer’s federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that net profit in
the group’s federal taxable income in accordance with §
38.05(V)(3)(b).
         (j)   1.   Add any loss incurred by a pass-through entity owned
directly or indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer’s federal
taxable income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that loss in
the group’s federal taxable income in accordance with §
38.05 (V)(3)(b).
            2.   If the taxpayer is not a C corporation, is not a disregarded
entity that has made an election described in the definition of “taxpayer”, is
not a publicly traded partnership that has made the election described in the
definition of “net profit”, and is not an individual, the taxpayer shall
compute adjusted federal taxable income under this section as if the taxpayer
were a C corporation, except guaranteed payments and other similar amounts paid
or accrued to a partner, former partner, shareholder, former shareholder,
member, or former member shall not be allowed as a deductible expense unless
such payments are in consideration for the use of capital and treated as
payment of interest under § 469 of the Internal Revenue Code or United States
treasury regulations. Amounts paid or accrued to a qualified self-employed
retirement plan with respect to a partner, former partner, shareholder, former
shareholder, member, or former member of the taxpayer, amounts paid or accrued
to or for health insurance for a partner, former partner, shareholder, former
shareholder, member, or former member, and amounts paid or accrued to or for
life insurance for a partner, former partner, shareholder, former shareholder,
member, or former member shall not be allowed as a deduction.
            3.   Nothing in this definition shall be construed as allowing the
taxpayer to add or deduct any amount more than once or shall be construed as
allowing any taxpayer to deduct any amount paid to or accrued for purposes of
federal self-employment tax.
      ASSESSMENT. 
         (a)   A written finding by the Tax Administrator that a person has
underpaid municipal income tax, or owes penalty and interest, or any
combination of tax, penalty, or interest, to the municipal corporation that
commences the person’s time limitation for making an appeal to the Board of Tax
Review pursuant to §
38.21, and has “ASSESSMENT” written in all capital letters at the top of such
finding.
         (b) ASSESSMENT does not include a notice denying a request for refund
issued under §
38.09(C)(3), a billing statement notifying a taxpayer of current or past-due
balances owed to the municipal corporation, a Tax Administrator’s request for
additional information, a notification to the taxpayer of mathematical errors,
or a Tax Administrator’s other written correspondence to a person or taxpayer
that does not meet the criteria prescribed by division (a) of this definition.
      AUDIT. The examination of a person or the inspection of the books,
records, memoranda, or accounts of a person ordered to appear before the Tax
Administrator for the purpose of determining liability for a municipal income
tax.
      BOARD OF TAX REVIEW, BOARD OF REVIEW, BOARD OF TAX APPEALS, OR OTHER
NAMED LOCAL BOARD CONSTITUTED TO HEAR APPEALS OF MUNICIPAL INCOME TAX MATTERS.
The entity created under the definition of MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME.
      CALENDAR QUARTER. The three-month period ending on the last day of March,
June, September, or December.
      CASINO OPERATOR and CASINO FACILITY. The same meanings as in R.C. §
3772.01.
      CERTIFIED MAIL, EXPRESS MAIL, UNITED STATES MAIL, POSTAL SERVICE, and
SIMILAR TERMS. Include any delivery service authorized pursuant to R.C. §
5703.056.
      DISREGARDED ENTITY. A single member limited liability company, a
qualifying subchapter S subsidiary, or another entity if the company,
subsidiary, or entity is a disregarded entity for federal income tax purposes.
      DOMICILE. The true, fixed, and permanent home of a taxpayer and to which,
whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return. A taxpayer may have more than
one residence but not more than one domicile.
      EMPLOYEE. An individual who is an employee for federal income tax
purposes.
      EMPLOYER. A person that is an employer for federal income tax purposes.
      EXEMPT INCOME. All of the following:
         (a)   The military pay or allowances of members of the armed forces of
the United States or members of their reserve components, including the
national guard of any state;
         (b)   Intangible income. However, a municipal corporation that taxed
any type of intangible income on March 29, 1988, pursuant to § 3 of S.B. 238 of
the 116th General Assembly, may continue to tax that type of income if a
majority of the electors of the municipal corporation voting on the question of
whether to permit the taxation of that type of intangible income after 1988
voted in favor thereof at an election held on November 8, 1988;
         (c)   Social Security benefits, railroad retirement benefits,
unemployment compensation, pensions, retirement benefit payments, payments from
annuities, and similar payments made to an employee or to the beneficiary of an
employee under a retirement program or plan, disability payments received from
private industry or local, state, or federal governments or from charitable,
religious, or educational organizations, and the proceeds of sickness,
accident, or liability insurance policies. As used in division this division
(c), UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION does not include supplemental unemployment
compensation described in § 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code;
         (d)   The income of religious, fraternal, charitable, scientific,
literary, or educational institutions to the extent such income is derived from
tax-exempt real estate, tax-exempt tangible or intangible property, or tax-
exempt activities;
         (e)   Compensation paid under R.C. §§ 3501.28 or 3501.36 to a person
serving as a precinct election official to the extent that such compensation
does not exceed $1,000 for the taxable year. Such compensation in excess of
$1,000 for the taxable year may be subject to taxation by a municipal
corporation. A municipal corporation shall not require the payer of such
compensation to withhold any tax from that compensation;
         (f)   Dues, contributions, and similar payments received by
charitable, religious, educational, or literary organizations or labor unions,
lodges, and similar organizations;
         (g)   Alimony and child support received;
         (h)   Compensation for personal injuries or for damages to property
from insurance proceeds or otherwise, excluding compensation paid for lost
salaries or wages or compensation from punitive damages;
         (i)   Income of a public utility when that public utility is subject
to the tax levied under R.C. §§ 5727.24 or 5727.30. This division (i) does not
apply for purposes of R.C. Chapter 5745;
         (j)   Gains from involuntary conversions, interest on federal
obligations, items of income subject to a tax levied by the state and that a
municipal corporation is specifically prohibited by law from taxing, and income
of a decedent’s estate during the period of administration except such income
from the operation of a trade or business;
         (k)   Compensation or allowances excluded from federal gross income
under § 107 of the Internal Revenue Code;
         (l)   Employee compensation that is not qualifying wages as defined
below this section;
         (m)   Compensation paid to a person employed within the boundaries of
a United States Air Force base under the jurisdiction of the United States Air
Force that is used for the housing of members of the United States Air Force
and is a center for Air Force operations, unless the person is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile. If the compensation is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile, tax on such income shall be payable
only to the municipal corporation of residence or domicile;
         (n)   An S corporation shareholder’s share of net profits of the S
corporation, other than any part of the share of net profits that represents
wages as defined in § 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue Code or net earnings from
self-employment as defined in § 1402(a) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         (o)   To the extent authorized under a resolution or ordinance adopted
by the village before January 1, 2016, all or a portion of the income of
individuals or a class of individuals under 18 years of age.
         (p)   1.   Except as provided in divisions (p)2. through (p)4. of this
definition, qualifying wages described in §
38.04(C)(2) or (C)(5) to the extent the qualifying wages are not subject to
withholding for the village under either of those divisions.
            2.   The exemption provided in division (p)1. of this definition
does not apply with respect to the municipal corporation in which the employee
resided at the time the employee earned the qualifying wages.
            3.   The exemption provided in division (p)1. of this definition
does not apply to qualifying wages that an employer elects to withhold under §
38.04(C)(4)(b).
            4.   The exemption provided in division (p)1. of this definition
does not apply to qualifying wages if both of the following conditions apply:
               a.   For qualifying wages described in division §
38.04(C)(2), the employee’s employer withholds and remits tax on the qualifying
wages to the municipal corporation in which the employee’s principal place of
work is situated, or, for qualifying wages described in §
38.04(C)(5), the employee’s employer withholds and remits tax on the qualifying
wages to the municipal corporation in which the employer’s fixed location is
located; and
               b.   The employee receives a refund of the tax described in
division (p)4.a. of this definition on the basis of the employee not performing
services in that municipal corporation.
         (q)   1.   Except as provided in division (q)2. or (q)3. of this
definition, compensation that is not qualifying wages paid to a nonresident
individual for personal services performed in the village on not more than 20
days in a taxable year.
            2.   The exemption provided in division (q)1. of this definition
does not apply under either of the following circumstances:
               a.   The individual’s base of operation is located in the
municipal corporation; or
               b.   The individual is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer, or public figure, and the compensation is paid for the performance
of services in the individual’s capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer, or public figure. For purposes of division (q)2.b. of
this section, PROFESSIONAL ATHLETE, PROFESSIONAL ENTERTAINER, and PUBLIC FIGURE
have the same meanings as in §
38.04(C).
            3.   Compensation to which this division (q) applies shall be
treated as earned or received at the individual’s base of operation. If the
individual does not have a base of operation, the compensation shall be treated
as earned or received where the individual is domiciled.
            4.   For purposes of this division (q), BASE OF OPERATION means the
location where an individual owns or rents an office, storefront, or similar
facility to which the individual regularly reports and at which the individual
regularly performs personal services for compensation.
         (r)   Compensation paid to a person for personal services performed
for a political subdivision on property owned by the political subdivision,
regardless of whether the compensation is received by an employee of the
subdivision or another person performing services for the subdivision under a
contract with the subdivision, if the property on which services are performed
is annexed to a municipal corporation pursuant to R.C. § 709.023 on or after
March 27, 2013, unless the person is subject to such taxation because of
residence. If the compensation is subject to taxation because of residence,
municipal income tax shall be payable only to the municipal corporation of
residence; and
         (s)   Income the taxation of which is prohibited by the constitution
or laws of the United States. Any item of income that is exempt income of a
pass-through entity under these definitions is exempt income of each owner of
the pass-through entity to the extent of that owner’s distributive or
proportionate share of that item of the entity’s income.
      FORM 2106. Internal Revenue Service form 2106 filed by a taxpayer
pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      GENERIC FORM. An electronic or paper form that is not prescribed by a
particular municipal corporation and that is designed for reporting taxes
withheld by an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer, estimated
municipal income taxes, or annual municipal income tax liability or for filing
a refund claim.
      GROSS RECEIPTS. The total revenue derived from sales, work done, or
service rendered.
      INCOME. Includes the following:
         (a)   1.   For residents, all income, salaries, qualifying wages,
commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or received by
the resident, including the resident’s distributive share of the net profit of
pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by the resident, except as
provided in the division (e) of the definition of “net profit” of this section.
            2.   For the purposes of division (a)1. of this definition:
               a.   Any net operating loss of the resident incurred in the
taxable year and the resident’s distributive share of any net operating loss
generated in the same taxable year and attributable to the resident’s ownership
interest in a pass-through entity shall be allowed as a deduction, for that
taxable year and the following five taxable years, against any other net profit
of the resident or the resident’s distributive share of any net profit
attributable to the resident’s ownership interest in a pass-through entity
until fully utilized, subject to division (a)4. of this definition; and
               b.   The resident’s distributive share of the net profit of each
pass-through entity owned directly or indirectly by the resident shall be
calculated without regard to any net operating loss that is carried forward by
that entity from a prior taxable year and applied to reduce the entity’s net
profit for the current taxable year.
            3.   Division (a)2. of this definition does not apply with respect
to any net profit or net operating loss attributable to an ownership interest
in an S corporation unless shareholders’ shares of net profits from S
corporations are subject to tax in the municipal corporation as provided in the
definition of “exempt income”.
            4.   Any amount of a net operating loss used to reduce a taxpayer’s
net profit for a taxable year shall reduce the amount of net operating loss
that may be carried forward to any subsequent year for use by that taxpayer. In
no event shall the cumulative deductions for all taxable years with respect to
a taxpayer’s net operating loss exceed the original amount of that net
operating loss available to that taxpayer.
         (b)   In the case of nonresidents, all income, salaries, qualifying
wages, commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or
received by the nonresident for work done, services performed or rendered, or
activities conducted in the municipal corporation, including any net profit of
the nonresident, but excluding the nonresident’s distributive share of the net
profit or loss of only pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by
the nonresident.
         (c)   For taxpayers that are not individuals, net profit of the
taxpayer.
         (d)   Lottery, sweepstakes, gambling and sports winnings, winnings
from games of chance, and prizes and awards. If the taxpayer is a professional
gambler for federal income tax purposes, the taxpayer may deduct related
wagering losses and expenses to the extent authorized under the Internal
Revenue Code and claimed against such winnings.
      INTANGIBLE INCOME. Income of any of the following types: income yield,
interest, capital gains, dividends, or other income arising from the ownership,
sale, exchange, or other disposition of intangible property including, but not
limited to, investments, deposits, money, or credits as those terms are defined
in R.C. Chapter 5701, and patents, copyrights, trademarks, tradenames,
investments in real estate investment trusts, investments in regulated
investment companies, and appreciation on deferred compensation. INTANGIBLE
INCOME does not include prizes, awards, or other income associated with any
lottery winnings, gambling winnings, or other similar games of chance.
      INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5747.01.
      LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY. A limited liability company formed under R.C.
Chapter 1705 or under the laws of another state.
      MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. Includes a joint economic development district or
joint economic development zone that levies an income tax under R.C. §§
715.691, 715.70, or 715.71.
      MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME. Includes the following:
         (a)   For a person other than an individual, income apportioned or
sitused to the village under §
38.03, as applicable, reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward
available to the person for the village.
         (b)   1.   For an individual who is a resident of the village, income
reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income, then
reduced as provided in division (c) of this definition, and further reduced by
any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward available to the individual for
the municipal corporation.
            2.   For an individual who is a nonresident of the village, income
reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and then,
as applicable, apportioned or sitused to the municipal corporation under §
38.03, then reduced as provided in division (c) of this definition, and further
reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward available to the
individual for the village.
         (c)   In computing the MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME of a taxpayer who is
an individual, the taxpayer may subtract, as provided in division (b) of this
definition, the amount of the individual’s employee business expenses reported
on the individual’s form 2106 that the individual deducted for federal income
tax purposes for the taxable year, subject to the limitation imposed by § 67 of
the Internal Revenue Code. For the municipal corporation in which the taxpayer
is a resident, the taxpayer may deduct all such expenses allowed for federal
income tax purposes, but to the extent the expenses do not relate to exempt
income. For a municipal corporation in which the taxpayer is not a resident,
the taxpayer may deduct such expenses only to the extent the expenses are
related to the taxpayer’s performance of personal services in that nonresident
municipal corporation and are not related to exempt income.
      MUNICIPALITY. The same as the Village of Waynesville.
      NET OPERATING LOSS. A loss incurred by a person in the operation of a
trade or business. NET OPERATING LOSS does not include unutilized losses
resulting from basis limitations, at-risk limitations, or passive activity loss
limitations.
      NET PROFIT. 
         (a)   For a person who is an individual means the individual’s net
profit required to be reported on schedule C, schedule E, or schedule F reduced
by any net operating loss carried forward. For the purposes of this division
(a), the net operating loss carried forward shall be calculated and deducted in
the same manner as provided in the division of “adjusted federal taxable
income” above.
         (b)   For a person other than an individual means adjusted federal
taxable income reduced by any net operating loss incurred by the person in a
taxable year beginning on or after January 1, 2017, subject to the limitations
of division (c) of this section.
         (c)   1.   The amount of such operating loss shall be deducted from
NET PROFIT to the extent necessary to reduce municipal taxable income to zero,
with any remaining unused portion of the net operating loss carried forward to
not more than five consecutive taxable years following the taxable year in
which the loss was incurred, but in no case for more years than necessary for
the deduction to be fully utilized.
            2.   No person shall use the deduction allowed by division (c) to
offset qualifying wages.
            3.   a.   For taxable years beginning in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, or
2022, a person may not deduct more than 50% of the amount of the deduction
otherwise allowed by division (c).
               b.   For taxable years beginning in 2023 or thereafter, a person
may deduct the full amount allowed by division (c) without regard to the
limitation of division (c)3.a.
            4.   Any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward deduction that is
available may be utilized before a taxpayer may deduct any amount pursuant to
division (c).
            5.   Nothing in division (c)3.a. precludes a person from carrying
forward, for use with respect to any return filed for a taxable year beginning
after 2018, any amount of net operating loss that was not fully utilized by
operation of division (c)3.a. To the extent that an amount of net operating
loss that was not fully utilized in one or more taxable years by operation is
carried forward for use with respect to a return filed for a taxable year
beginning in 2019, 2020, 2021, or 2022, the limitation described in division
(c)3.a. shall apply to the amount carried forward.
         (d)   For the purposes of this chapter, and notwithstanding this
division (b), NET PROFIT of a disregarded entity shall not be taxable as
against that disregarded entity, but shall instead be included in the net
profit of the owner of the disregarded entity.
         (e)   A publicly traded partnership that is treated as a partnership
for federal income tax purposes, and that is subject to tax on its net profits
by the village, may elect to be treated as a C corporation for the village and
shall not be treated as the net profit or income of any owner of the
partnership. The election shall be made on the annual return for the village.
The village will treat the publicly traded partnership as a C corporation if
the election is so made.
      NONRESIDENT. An individual that is not a resident.
      OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY. The online computer network system, created under
R.C. § 125.30, that allows persons to electronically file business reply forms
with state agencies and includes any successor electronic filing and payment
system.
      OTHER PAYER. Any person, other than an individual’s employer or the
employer’s agent, that pays an individual any amount included in the federal
gross income of the individual. OTHER PAYER includes casino operators and video
lottery terminal sales agents.
      PASS-THROUGH ENTITY. A partnership not treated as an association taxable
as a C corporation for federal income tax purposes, a limited liability company
not treated as an association taxable as a C corporation for federal income tax
purposes, an S corporation, or any other class of entity from which the income
or profits of the entity are given pass-through treatment for federal income
tax purposes. PASS-THROUGH ENTITY does not include a trust, estate, grantor of
a grantor trust, or disregarded entity.
      PENSION. Any amount paid to an employee or former employee that is
reported to the recipient on an IRS form 1099-R, or successor form. PENSION
does not include deferred compensation, or amounts attributable to nonqualified
deferred compensation plans, reported as FICA/Medicare wages on an IRS form W-
2, Wage and Tax Statement, or successor form.
      PERSON. Includes individuals, firms, companies, joint stock companies,
business trusts, estates, trusts, partnerships, limited liability partnerships,
limited liability companies, associations, C corporations, S corporations,
governmental entities, and any other entity.
      POSTAL SERVICE. The United States postal service.
      POSTMARK DATE, DATE OF POSTMARK, and SIMILAR TERMS. Include the date
recorded and marked in the manner described in R.C. § 5703.056(B)(3).
      PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD. 
         (a)   Any net operating loss incurred in a taxable year beginning
before January 1, 2017, to the extent such loss was permitted, by a resolution
or ordinance of the village that was adopted by the village before January 1,
2016, to be carried forward and utilized to offset income or net profit
generated in such municipal corporation in future taxable years.
         (b)   For the purpose of calculating municipal taxable income, any
pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward may be carried forward to any taxable
year, including taxable years beginning in 2017 or thereafter, for the number
of taxable years provided in the resolution or ordinance or until fully
utilized, whichever is earlier.
      PUBLICLY TRADED PARTNERSHIP. Any partnership, an interest in which is
regularly traded on an established securities market. A PUBLICLY TRADED
PARTNERSHIP may have any number of partners.
      QUALIFYING WAGES. Includes wages, as defined in § 3121(a) of the Internal
Revenue Code, without regard to any wage limitations, adjusted as follows:
         (a)   Deduct the following amounts:
            1.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes
compensation attributable to a plan or program described in § 125 of the
Internal Revenue Code;
            2.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes payment
on account of a disability related to sickness or an accident paid by a party
unrelated to the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer; and
            3.   Any amount included in wages that is exempt income.
         (b)   Add the following amounts:
            1.   Any amount not included in wages solely because the employee
was employed by the employer before April 1, 1986.
            2.   Any amount not included in wages because the amount arises
from the sale, exchange, or other disposition of a stock option, the exercise
of a stock option, or the sale, exchange, or other disposition of stock
purchased under a stock option and the municipal corporation has not, by
resolution or ordinance, exempted the amount from withholding and tax adopted
before January 1, 2016. This division (b)2. applies only to those amounts
constituting ordinary income.
            3.   Any amount not included in wages if the amount is an amount
described in §§ 401(k), 403(b), or 457 of the Internal Revenue Code. Division
(b)2. of this definition applies only to employee contributions and employee
deferrals.
            4.   Any amount that is supplemental unemployment compensation
benefits described in § 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code and not
included in wages.
            5.   Any amount received that is treated as self-employment income
for federal tax purposes in accordance with § 1402(a)(8) of the Internal
Revenue Code.
            6.   Any amount not included in wages if all of the following
apply:
               a.   For the taxable year the amount is employee compensation
that is earned outside the United States and that either is included in the
taxpayer’s gross income for federal income tax purposes or would have been
included in the taxpayer’s gross income for such purposes if the taxpayer did
not elect to exclude the income under § 911 of the Internal Revenue Code;
               b.   For no preceding taxable year did the amount constitute
wages as defined in § 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue Code;
               c.   For no succeeding taxable year will the amount constitute
wages; and
               d.   For any taxable year the amount has not otherwise been
added to wages pursuant to either division (b) of this definition or §
38.04, as that section existed before the effective date of H.B. 5 of the 130th
General Assembly, March 23, 2015.
      RELATED ENTITY. Any of the following:
         (a)   An individual stockholder or a member of the stockholder’s
family enumerated in § 318 of the Internal Revenue Code, if the stockholder and
the members of the stockholder’s family own directly, indirectly, beneficially,
or constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the
taxpayer’s outstanding stock;
         (b)   A stockholder, or a stockholder’s partnership, estate, trust, or
corporation, if the stockholder and the stockholder’s partnerships, estates,
trusts, or corporations own directly, indirectly, beneficially, or
constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the taxpayer’s
outstanding stock;
         (c)   A corporation or a party related to the corporation in a manner
that would require an attribution of stock from the corporation to the party or
from the party to the corporation under division (d) of this definition,
provided the taxpayer owns directly, indirectly, beneficially, or
constructively, at least 50% of the value of the corporation’s outstanding
stock; or
         (d)   The attribution rules described in § 318 of the Internal Revenue
Code apply for the purpose of determining whether the ownership requirements in
divisions (a) to (c) of this definition have been met.
      RELATED MEMBER. A person that, with respect to the taxpayer during all or
any portion of the taxable year, is either a related entity, a component member
as defined in § 1563(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, or a person to or from
whom there is attribution of stock ownership in accordance with § 1563(e) of
the Internal Revenue Code except, for purposes of determining whether a person
is a related member under this division, “20%” shall be substituted for “5%”
wherever “5%” appears in § 1563(e) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      RESIDENT. An individual who is domiciled in the municipal corporation as
determined under §
38.03(C).
      S CORPORATION. A person that has made an election under subchapter S of
Chapter I of Subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code for its taxable year.
      SCHEDULE C. Internal revenue service schedule C (form 1040) filed by a
taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      SCHEDULE E. Internal revenue service schedule E (form 1040) filed by a
taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      SCHEDULE F. Internal revenue service schedule F (form 1040) filed by a
taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      SINGLE MEMBER LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY. A limited liability company that
has one direct member.
      SMALL EMPLOYER. Any employer that had total revenue of less than $500,000
during the preceding taxable year. For purposes of this definition, TOTAL
REVENUE means receipts of any type or kind, including, but not limited to:
sales receipts; payments; rents; profits; gains, dividends, and other
investment income; compensation; commissions; premiums; money; property;
grants; contributions; donations; gifts; program service revenue; patient
service revenue; premiums; fees, including premium fees and service fees;
tuition payments; unrelated business revenue; reimbursements; any type of
payment from a governmental unit, including grants and other allocations; and
any other similar receipts reported for federal income tax purposes or under
generally accepted accounting principles. SMALL EMPLOYER does not include the
federal government; any state government, including any state agency or
instrumentality; any political subdivision; or any entity treated as a
government for financial accounting and reporting purposes.
      TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The individual charged with direct responsibility for
administration of an income tax levied by the village in accordance with this
chapter. TAX ADMINISTRATOR does not include the State Tax Commissioner.
      TAX COMMISSIONER. The Tax Commissioner appointed under R.C. § 121.03.
      TAX RETURN PREPARER. Any individual described in § 7701(a)(36) of the
Internal Revenue Code and 26 C.F.R. § 301.7701-15.
      TAXABLE YEAR. The corresponding tax reporting period as prescribed for
the taxpayer under the Internal Revenue Code.
      TAXPAYER. 
         (a)   A person subject to a tax levied on income by a municipal
corporation in accordance with this chapter. TAXPAYER does not include a
grantor trust or, except as provided in division (b)1. of this definition, a
disregarded entity.
         (b)   1.   A single member limited liability company that is a
disregarded entity for federal tax purposes may be a separate taxpayer from its
single member in all Ohio municipal corporations in which it either filed as a
separate taxpayer or did not file for its taxable year ending in 2003, if all
of the following conditions are met:
               (a)   The limited liability company’s single member is also a
limited liability company;
               (b)   The limited liability company and its single member were
formed and doing business in one or more Ohio municipal corporations for at
least five years before January 1, 2004;
               (c)   Not later than December 31, 2004, the limited liability
company and its single member each made an election to be treated as a separate
taxpayer under the definition of “resident” as this section existed on December
31, 2004;
               (d)   The limited liability company was not formed for the
purpose of evading or reducing Ohio municipal corporation income tax liability
of the limited liability company or its single member; and
               (e)   The Ohio municipal corporation that was the primary place
of business of the sole member of the limited liability company consented to
the election.
            2.   For purposes of this division (b)2., a municipal corporation
was the primary place of business of a limited liability company if, for the
limited liability company’s taxable year ending in 2003, its income tax
liability was greater in that municipal corporation than in any other municipal
corporation in Ohio, and that tax liability to that municipal corporation for
its taxable year ending in 2003 was at least $400,000.
      TAXPAYERS’ RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES. The rights provided to taxpayers
in R.C. §§ 9, 13, 19, 21, 5717.011, and 5717.03, and the responsibilities of
taxpayers to file, report, withhold, remit, and pay municipal income tax and
otherwise comply with R.C. Chapter 718 and resolutions, ordinances, and rules
and regulations adopted by the village for the imposition and administration of
a municipal income tax.
      VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL. The same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
      VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL SALES AGENT. A lottery sales agent licensed under
R.C. Chapter 3770 to conduct video lottery terminals on behalf of the state
pursuant to R.C. § 3770.21.
(Ord. 2015-032, passed 9-21-2015; Ord. 2018-017, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 38.03 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   The income tax levied by the village at a rate of 0.5% is levied on the
municipal taxable income of every person residing in and/or earning and/or
receiving income in the village.
   (A)   Individuals.
      (1)   For residents of the village, the income tax levied herein shall be
on all income, salaries, qualifying wages, commissions, and other compensation
from whatever source earned or received by the resident, including the
resident’s distributive share of the net profit of pass-through entities owned
directly or indirectly by the resident and any net profit of the resident. This
is further detailed in the definition of income in §
38.02.
      (2)   For nonresidents, all income, salaries, qualifying wages,
commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or received by
the nonresident for work done, services performed or rendered, or activities
conducted in the municipal corporation, including any net profit of the
nonresident, but excluding the nonresident’s distributive share of the net
profit or loss of only pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by
the nonresident.
      (3)   For residents and nonresidents, income can be reduced to “municipal
taxable income” as defined in §
38.02. Exemptions which may apply are specified in §
38.02.
   (B)   Refundable credit for Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN. A compensation plan described
in § 3121(v)(2)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         QUALIFYING LOSS. The amount of compensation attributable to a
taxpayer’s nonqualified deferred compensation plan, less the receipt of money
and property attributable to distributions from the nonqualified deferred
compensation plan. Full loss is sustained if no distribution of money and
property is made by the nonqualified deferred compensation plan. The taxpayer
sustains a QUALIFYING LOSS only in the taxable year in which the taxpayer
receives the final distribution of money and property pursuant to that
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
         QUALIFYING TAX RATE. 
            1.   The applicable tax rate for the taxable year for the which the
taxpayer paid income tax to the village with respect to any portion of the
total amount of compensation the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
            2.   If different tax rates applied for different taxable years,
then the QUALIFYING TAX RATE is a weighted average of those different tax
rates. The weighted average shall be based upon the tax paid to the village
each year with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
         REFUNDABLE CREDIT. The amount of the village income tax that was paid
on the non-distributed portion, if any, of a nonqualified deferred compensation
plan.
      (2)   If, in addition to the village, a taxpayer has paid tax to other
municipal corporations with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation
plan, the amount of the credit that a taxpayer may claim from each municipal
corporation shall be calculated on the basis of each municipal corporation’s
proportionate share of the total municipal corporation income tax paid by the
taxpayer to all municipal corporations with respect to the nonqualified
deferred compensation plan.
      (3)   In no case shall the amount of the credit allowed under this
section exceed the cumulative income tax that a taxpayer has paid to the
village for all taxable years with respect to the nonqualified deferred
compensation plan.
      (4)   The credit allowed under this division (B) is allowed only to the
extent the taxpayer’s qualifying loss is attributable to:
         (a)   The insolvency or bankruptcy of the employer who had established
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan; or
         (b)   The employee’s failure or inability to satisfy all of the
employer’s terms and conditions necessary to receive the nonqualified deferred
compensation.
   (C)   Domicile.
      (1)   (a)   An individual is presumed to be domiciled in the village for
all or part of a taxable year if the individual was domiciled in the village on
the last day of the immediately preceding taxable year or if the Tax
Administrator reasonably concludes that the individual is domiciled in the
village for all or part of the taxable year.
         (b)   An individual may rebut the presumption of domicile described in
division (C)(1)(a) of this section if the individual establishes by a
preponderance of the evidence that the individual was not domiciled in the
village for all or part of the taxable year.
      (2)   For the purpose of determining whether an individual is domiciled
in the village for all or part of a taxable year, factors that may be
considered include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The individual’s domicile in other taxable years;
         (b)   The location at which the individual is registered to vote;
         (c)   The address on the individual’s driver’s license;
         (d)   The location of real estate for which the individual claimed a
property tax exemption or reduction allowed on the basis of the individual’s
residence or domicile;
         (e)   The location and value of abodes owned or leased by the
individual;
         (f)   Declarations, written or oral, made by the individual regarding
the individual’s residency;
         (g)   The primary location at which the individual is employed;
         (h)   The location of educational institutions attended by the
individual’s dependents as defined in § 152 of the Internal Revenue Code, to
the extent that tuition paid to such educational institution is based on the
residency of the individual or the individual’s spouse in the municipal
corporation where the educational institution is located; and
         (i)   The number of contact periods the individual has with the
village. For the purposes of this division, an individual has one “contact
period” with the village if the individual is away overnight from the
individual’s abode located outside of the village and while away overnight from
that abode spends at least some portion, however minimal, of each of two
consecutive days in the village.
      (3)   All additional applicable factors are provided in the rules and
regulations.
   (D)   Businesses.
      (1)   This division (D) applies to any taxpayer engaged in a business or
profession in the village, unless the taxpayer is an individual who resides in
the village or the taxpayer is an electric company, combined company, or
telephone company that is subject to and required to file reports under R.C.
Chapter 5745.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(2) of this section,
net profit from a business or profession conducted both within and without the
boundaries of the village shall be considered as having a taxable situs in the
village for purposes of municipal income taxation in the same proportion as the
average ratio of the following:
            1.   The average original cost of the real property and tangible
personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the business or profession
in the village during the taxable period to the average original cost of all of
the real and tangible personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the
business or profession during the same period, wherever situated. As used in
this division (D)(1)(a)1., tangible personal or real property shall include
property rented or leased by the taxpayer and the value of such property shall
be determined by multiplying the annual rental thereon by eight;
            2.   Wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during the
taxable period to individuals employed in the business or profession for
services performed in the village to wages, salaries, and other compensation
paid during the same period to individuals employed in the business or
profession, wherever the individual’s services are performed, excluding
compensation from which taxes are not required to be withheld under §
38.04(C); or
            3.   Total gross receipts of the business or profession from sales
and rentals made and services performed during the taxable period in the
village to total gross receipts of the business or profession during the same
period from sales, rentals, and services, wherever made or performed.
      (2)   (a)   If the apportionment factors described in division (D)(1) of
this section do not fairly represent the extent of a taxpayer’s business
activity in the village, the taxpayer may request, or the Tax Administrator of
the village may require, that the taxpayer use, with respect to all or any
portion of the income of the taxpayer, an alternative apportionment method
involving one or more of the following:
            1.   Separate accounting;
            2.   The exclusion of one or more of the factors;
            3.   The inclusion of one or more additional factors that would
provide for a more fair apportionment of the income of the taxpayer to the
municipal corporation; and/or
            4.   A modification of one or more of the factors.
         (b)   A taxpayer request to use an alternative apportionment method
shall be in writing and shall accompany a tax return, timely filed appeal of an
assessment, or timely filed amended tax return. The taxpayer may use the
requested alternative method unless the Tax Administrator denies the request in
an assessment issued within the period prescribed by §
38.12(A).
         (c)   The Tax Administrator may require a taxpayer to use an
alternative apportionment method as described in division (D)(2)(a) of this
section, but only by issuing an assessment to the taxpayer within the period
prescribed by §
38.12(A).
         (d)   Nothing in division (D)(2) of this section nullifies or
otherwise affects any alternative apportionment arrangement approved by a the
Tax Administrator or otherwise agreed upon by both the Tax Administrator and
taxpayer before January 1, 2016.
      (3)   As used in division (D)(1)(b) of this section, WAGES, SALARIES, AND
OTHER COMPENSATION includes only wages, salaries, or other compensation paid to
an employee for services performed at any of the following locations:
         (a)   A location that is owned, controlled, or used by, rented to, or
under the possession of one of the following:
            1.   The employer;
            2.   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of the employer, or a
related member of such a vendor, customer, client, or patient; or
            3.   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of a person described
in (D)(3)(a)2. of this section, or a related member of such a vendor, customer,
client, or patient.
         (b)   Any location at which a trial, appeal, hearing, investigation,
inquiry, review, court-martial, or similar administrative, judicial, or
legislative matter or proceeding is being conducted, provided that the
compensation is paid for services performed for, or on behalf of, the employer
or that the employee’s presence at the location directly or indirectly benefits
the employer; or
         (c)   Any other location, if the Tax Administrator determines that the
employer directed the employee to perform the services at the other location in
lieu of a location described in division (D)(3)(a) or (b) of this section
solely in order to avoid or reduce the employer’s municipal income tax
liability. If the Tax Administrator makes such a determination, the employer
may dispute the determination by establishing, by a preponderance of the
evidence, that the Tax Administrator’s determination was unreasonable.
      (4)   For the purposes of division (D)(1)(c) of this section, receipts
from sales and rentals made and services performed shall be sitused to a
municipal corporation as follows:
         (a)   Gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property shall
be sitused to the municipal corporation in which the sale originated. For the
purposes of this division (D), a sale of property originates in the village if,
regardless of where title passes, the property meets any of the following
criteria:
            1.   The property is shipped to or delivered within the village
from a stock of goods located within the village;
            2.   The property is delivered within the village from a location
outside the village, provided the taxpayer is regularly engaged through its own
employees in the solicitation or promotion of sales within the village and the
sales result from such solicitation or promotion; or
            3.   The property is shipped from a place within the village to
purchasers outside the municipal corporation, provided that the taxpayer is
not, through its own employees, regularly engaged in the solicitation or
promotion of sales at the place where delivery is made.
         (b)   Gross receipts from the sale of services shall be sitused to the
village to the extent that such services are performed in the village.
         (c)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from the sale
of real property located in the village shall be sitused to the village.
         (d)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from rents and
royalties from real property located in the village shall be sitused to the
village.
         (e)   Gross receipts from rents and royalties from tangible personal
property shall be sitused to the village based upon the extent to which the
tangible personal property is used in the village.
      (5)   The net profit received by an individual taxpayer from the rental
of real estate owned directly by the individual, or by a disregarded entity
owned by the individual shall be subject to the village’s tax only if the
property generating the net profit is located in the village or if the
individual taxpayer that receives the net profit is a resident of the village.
The village shall allow such taxpayers to elect to use separate accounting for
the purpose of calculating net profit sitused under this division (D) to the
municipal corporation in which the property is located.
      (6)   (a)   Commissions received by a real estate agent or broker
relating to the sale, purchase, or lease of real estate shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation in which the real estate is located. Net profit reported
by the real estate agent or broker shall be allocated to the village, if
applicable, based upon the ratio of the commissions the agent or broker
received from the sale, purchase, or lease of real estate located in the
village to the commissions received from the sale, purchase, or lease of real
estate everywhere in the taxable year.
         (b)   An individual who is a resident of the village shall report the
individual’s net profit from all real estate activity on the individual’s
annual tax return for the village. The individual may claim a credit for taxes
the individual paid on such net profit to another municipal corporation to the
extent that such a credit is allowed under the village’s income tax ordinance.
      (7)   When calculating the ratios described in division (D)(1) of this
section for the purposes of that division or division (D)(2) of this section,
the owner of a disregarded entity shall include in the owner’s ratios the
property, payroll, and gross receipts of such disregarded entity.
(Ord. 2015-032, passed 9-21-2015)
§ 38.04 COLLECTION AT SOURCE.
   (A)   Withholding provisions. Each employer, agent of an employer, or other
payer located or doing business in the village shall withhold an income tax
from the qualifying wages earned and/or received by each employee in the
village. Except for qualifying wages for which withholding is not required
under §
38.03 or division (B)(4) or (B)(6) of this section, the tax shall be withheld
at the rate, specified in §
38.03, of 0.5%. An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer shall deduct
and withhold the tax from qualifying wages on the date that the employer,
agent, or other payer directly, indirectly, or constructively pays the
qualifying wages to, or credits the qualifying wages to the benefit of, the
employee.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, an
employer, agent of an employer, or other payer shall remit to the Tax
Administrator of the village the greater of the income taxes deducted and
withheld or the income taxes required to be deducted and withheld by the
employer, agent, or other payer according to the following schedule:
         (a)   Taxes required to be deducted and withheld shall be remitted
monthly to the Tax Administrator if the total taxes deducted and withheld or
required to be deducted and withheld by the employer, agent, or other payer on
behalf of the village in the preceding calendar year exceeded $2,399, or if the
total amount of taxes deducted and withheld or required to be deducted and
withheld on behalf of the village in any month of the preceding calendar
quarter, exceeded $200. Payment under this division (B)(1)(a) shall be made to
the Tax Administrator not later than 15 days after the last day of each month
for which the tax was withheld.
         (b)   Any employer, agent of an employer, or other payer not required
to make payments under division (B)(1)(a) of this section of taxes required to
be deducted and withheld shall make quarterly payments to the Tax Administrator
not later than the last day of the month following the last day of each
calendar quarter.
      (2)   If the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer is required
to make payments electronically for the purpose of paying federal taxes
withheld on payments to employees under § 6302 of the Internal Revenue Code, 26
C.F.R. § 31.6302-1, or any other federal statute or regulation, the payment
shall be made by electronic funds transfer to the Tax Administrator of all
taxes deducted and withheld on behalf of the village. The payment of tax by
electronic funds transfer under this division does not affect an employer’s,
agent’s, or other payer’s obligation to file any return as required under this
section.
      (3)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer shall make and
file a return showing the amount of tax withheld by the employer, agent, or
other payer from the qualifying wages of each employee and remitted to the Tax
Administrator. A return filed by an employer, agent, or other payer under this
division (B) shall be accepted by Tax Administrator and the village as the
return required of a nonresident employee whose sole income subject to the tax
under this chapter is the qualifying wages reported by the employee’s employer,
agent of an employer, or other payer.
      (4)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer is not required
to withhold the village income tax with respect to an individual’s
disqualifying disposition of an incentive stock option if, at the time of the
disqualifying disposition, the individual is not an employee of either the
corporation with respect to whose stock the option has been issued or of such
corporation’s successor entity.
      (5)   (a)   An employee is not relieved from liability for a tax by the
failure of the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer to withhold the
tax as required under this chapter or by the employer’s, agent’s, or other
payer’s exemption from the requirement to withhold the tax.
         (b)   The failure of an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer
to remit to the village the tax withheld relieves the employee from liability
for that tax unless the employee colluded with the employer, agent, or other
payer in connection with the failure to remit the tax withheld.
      (6)   Compensation deferred before June 26, 2003, is not subject to a
village income tax or income tax withholding requirement to the extent the
deferred compensation does not constitute qualifying wages at the time the
deferred compensation is paid or distributed.
      (7)   Each employer, agent of an employer, or other payer required to
withhold taxes is liable for the payment of that amount required to be
withheld, whether or not such taxes have been withheld, and such amount shall
be deemed to be held in trust for the village until such time as the withheld
amount is remitted to the Tax Administrator.
      (8)   On or before the last day of February of each year, an employer
shall file a withholding reconciliation return with the Tax Administrator
listing:
         (a)   The names, addresses, and Social Security numbers of all
employees from whose qualifying wages tax was withheld or should have been
withheld for the village during the preceding calendar year;
         (b)   The amount of tax withheld, if any, from each such employee, the
total amount of qualifying wages paid to such employee during the preceding
calendar year;
         (c)   The name of every other municipal corporation for which tax was
withheld or should have been withheld from such employee during the preceding
calendar year;
         (d)   Any other information required for federal income tax reporting
purposes on Internal Revenue Service form W-2 or its equivalent form with
respect to such employee; and
         (e)   Other information as may be required by the Tax Administrator.
      (9)   The officer or the employee of the employer, agent of an employer,
or other payer with control or direct supervision of or charged with the
responsibility for withholding the tax or filing the reports and making
payments as required by this section, shall be personally liable for a failure
to file a report or pay the tax due as required by this section. The
dissolution of an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer does not
discharge the officer’s or employee’s liability for a failure of the employer,
agent of an employer, or other payer to file returns or pay any tax due.
      (10)   An employer is required to deduct and withhold the village income
tax on tips and gratuities received by the employer’s employees and
constituting qualifying wages, but only to the extent that the tips and
gratuities are under the employer’s control. For the purposes of this division
(B)(10), a tip or gratuity is under the employer’s control if the tip or
gratuity is paid by the customer to the employer for subsequent remittance to
the employee, or if the customer pays the tip or gratuity by credit card, debit
card, or other electronic means.
      (11)   The Tax Administrator shall consider any tax withheld by an
employer at the request of an employee, when such tax is not otherwise required
to be withheld by this chapter to be tax required to be withheld and remitted
for the purposes of this section.
   (C)   Occasional entrant - withholding.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         EMPLOYER. Includes a person that is a related member to or of an
employer.
         FIXED LOCATION. A permanent place of doing business in this state,
such as an office, warehouse, storefront, or similar location owned or
controlled by an employer.
         PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK. 
            (a)   The fixed location to which an employee is required to report
for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis. If the employee is not
required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis to a
fixed location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the worksite location in this
state to which the employee is required to report for employment duties on a
regular and ordinary basis. If the employee is not required to report for
employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis to a fixed location or
worksite location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the location in this state at
which the employee spends the greatest number of days in a calendar year
performing services for or on behalf of the employee’s employer.
            (b)   If there is not a single municipal corporation in which the
employee spent the “greatest number of days in a calendar year” performing
services for or on behalf of the employer, but instead there are two or more
municipal corporations in which the employee spent an identical number of days
that is greater than the number of days the employee spent in any other
municipal corporation, the employer shall allocate any of the employee’s
qualifying wages subject to division (C)(2)(a)1. of this section among those
two or more municipal corporations. The allocation shall be made using any fair
and reasonable method, including, but not limited to, an equal allocation among
such municipal corporations or an allocation based upon the time spent or sales
made by the employee in each such municipal corporation. A municipal
corporation to which qualifying wages are allocated under this division shall
be the employee’s PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK with respect to those qualifying
wages for the purposes of this section.
            (c)   For the purposes of this division, the location at which an
employee spends a particular day shall be determined in accordance with
division (C)(2)(b) of this section, except that “location” shall be substituted
for “municipal corporation” wherever “municipal corporation” appears in that
division.
         PROFESSIONAL ATHLETE. An athlete who performs services in a
professional athletic event for wages or other remuneration.
         PROFESSIONAL ENTERTAINER. A person who performs services in the
professional performing arts for wages or other remuneration on a per-event
basis.
         PUBLIC FIGURE. A person of prominence who performs services at
discrete events, such as speeches, public appearances, or similar events, for
wages or other remuneration on a per-event basis.
         WORKSITE LOCATION. A construction site or other temporary worksite in
this state at which the employer provides services for more than 20 days during
the calendar year. WORKSITE LOCATION does not include the home of an employee.
      (2)   (a)   Subject to divisions (C)(3), (C)(5), and (C)(6) of this
section, an employer is not required to withhold the village income tax on
qualifying wages paid to an employee for the performance of personal services
in the village if the employee performed such services in the village on 20 or
fewer days in a calendar year, unless one of the following conditions applies:
            1.   The employee’s principal place of work is located in the
village;
            2.   The employee performed services at one or more presumed
worksite locations in the village. For the purposes of this division, PRESUMED
WORKSITE LOCATION means a construction site or other temporary worksite in the
village at which the employer provides or provided services that can reasonably
be, or would have been, expected by the employer to last more than 20 days in a
calendar year. Services can “reasonably be expected by the employer to last
more than 20 days” if either of the following applies at the time the services
commence:
               a.   The nature of the services are such that it will require
more than 20 days of the services to complete the services; or
               b.   The agreement between the employer and its customer to
perform services at a location requires the employer to perform the services at
the location for more than 20 days.
            3.   The employee is a resident of the village and has requested
that the employer withhold tax from the employee’s qualifying wages as provided
in this section; or
            4.   The employee is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer, or public figure, and the qualifying wages are paid for the
performance of services in the employee’s capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer, or public figure.
         (b)   For the purposes of division (C)(2)(a) of this section, an
employee shall be considered to have spent a day performing services in the
village only if the employee spent more time performing services for or on
behalf of the employer in the village than in any other municipal corporation
on that day. For the purposes of determining the amount of time an employee
spent in a particular location, the time spent performing one or more of the
following activities shall be considered to have been spent at the employee’s
principal place of work:
            1.   Traveling to the location at which the employee will first
perform services for the employer for the day;
            2.   Traveling from a location at which the employee was performing
services for the employer to any other location;
            3.   Traveling from any location to another location in order to
pick up or load, for the purpose of transportation or delivery, property that
has been purchased, sold, assembled, fabricated, repaired, refurbished,
processed, remanufactured, or improved by the employee’s employer;
            4.   Transporting or delivering property described in division (C)
(2)(b)3. of this section, provided that, upon delivery of the property, the
employee does not temporarily or permanently affix the property to real estate
owned, used, or controlled by a person other than the employee’s employer; or
            5.   Traveling from the location at which the employee makes the
employee’s final delivery or pick-up for the day to either the employee’s
principal place of work or a location at which the employee will not perform
services for the employer.
      (3)   If the principal place of work of an employee is located in another
Ohio municipal corporation that imposes an income tax, the exception from
withholding requirements described in division (C)(2)(a) of this section shall
apply only if, with respect to the employee’s qualifying wages described in
that division, the employer withholds and remits tax on such qualifying wages
to that municipal corporation.
      (4)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(4)(b) of this section, if,
during a calendar year, the number of days an employee spends performing
personal services in the village exceeds the 20-day threshold, the employer
shall withhold and remit tax to the village for any subsequent days in that
calendar year on which the employer pays qualifying wages to the employee for
personal services performed in the village.
         (b)   An employer required to begin withholding tax for the village
under division (C)(4)(a) of this section may elect to withhold tax for the
village for the first 20 days on which the employer paid qualifying wages to
the employee for personal services performed in the village.
      (5)   (a)   If an employer’s fixed location is the village and the
employer qualifies as a small employer as defined in §
38.02, the employer shall withhold municipal income tax on all of the
employee’s qualifying wages for a taxable year and remit that tax only to the
village, regardless of the number of days which the employee worked outside the
corporate boundaries of the village.
         (b)   To determine whether an employer qualifies as a small employer
for a taxable year, the employer will be required to provide the Tax
Administrator with the employer’s federal income tax return for the preceding
taxable year.
      (6)   Divisions (C)(2)(a) and (C)(4) of this section shall not apply to
the extent that a Tax Administrator and an employer enter into an agreement
regarding the manner in which the employer shall comply with the requirements
of this section.
(Ord. 2015-032, passed 9-21-2015; Ord. 2018-017, passed 4-2-2018) Penalty, see
§
38.99
§ 38.05 ANNUAL RETURN; FILING.
   (A)   An annual village income tax return shall be completed and filed by
every individual taxpayer 18 years of age or older and any taxpayer that is not
an individual for each taxable year for which the taxpayer is subject to the
tax, whether or not a tax is due thereon.
      (1)   The Tax Administrator may accept on behalf of all nonresident
individual taxpayers a return filed by an employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer under this section when the nonresident individual taxpayer’s sole
income subject to the tax is the qualifying wages reported by the employer,
agent of an employer, or other payer, and no additional tax is due the village.
      (2)   Retirees having no municipal taxable income for village income tax
purposes may file with the Tax Administrator a written exemption from these
filing requirements on a form prescribed by the Tax Administrator. The written
exemption shall indicate the date of retirement and the entity from which
retired. The exemption shall be in effect until such time as the retiree
receives municipal taxable income taxable to the village, at which time the
retiree shall be required to comply with all applicable provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   If an individual is deceased, any return or notice required of that
individual shall be completed and filed by that decedent’s executor,
administrator, or other person charged with the property of that decedent.
   (C)   If an individual is unable to complete and file a return or notice
required by the village, the return or notice required of that individual shall
be completed and filed by the individual’s duly authorized agent, guardian,
conservator, fiduciary, or other person charged with the care of the person or
property of that individual.
   (D)   Returns or notices required of an estate or a trust shall be completed
and filed by the fiduciary of the estate or trust.
   (E)   The village shall permit spouses to file a joint return.
   (F)   (1)   Each return required to be filed under this division (F) shall
contain the signature of the taxpayer or the taxpayer’s duly authorized agent
and of the person who prepared the return for the taxpayer. The return shall
include the taxpayer’s Social Security number or taxpayer identification
number. Each return shall be verified by a declaration under penalty of
perjury.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall require a taxpayer who is an individual
to include, with each annual return and amended return, copies of the following
documents: all of the taxpayer’s Internal Revenue Service form W-2, “Wage and
Tax Statements”, including all information reported on the taxpayer’s federal
W-2, as well as taxable wages reported or withheld for any municipal
corporation; the taxpayer’s Internal Revenue Service form 1040 or, in the case
of a return or request required by a qualified municipal corporation, Ohio form
IT-1040; and, with respect to an amended tax return, any other documentation
necessary to support the adjustments made in the amended return. An individual
taxpayer who files the annual return required by this section electronically is
not required to provide paper copies of any of the foregoing to the Tax
Administrator unless the Tax Administrator requests such copies after the
return has been filed.
      (3)   (a)   The Tax Administrator may require a taxpayer that is not an
individual to include, with each annual net profit return, amended net profit
return, or request for refund required under this section, copies of only the
following documents: the taxpayer’s Internal Revenue Service form 1041; form
1065; form 1120; form 1120-REIT; form 1120F; or form 1120S; and, with respect
to an amended tax return or refund request, any other documentation necessary
to support the refund request or the adjustments made in the amended return.
         (b)   A taxpayer that is not an individual and that files an annual
net profit return electronically through the Ohio Business Gateway or in some
other manner shall either mail the documents required under this division (3)
(b) to the Tax Administrator at the time of filing or, if electronic submission
is available, submit the documents electronically through the Ohio Business
Gateway.
      (4)   After a taxpayer files a tax return, the Tax Administrator may
request, and the taxpayer shall provide, any information, statements, or
documents required by the village to determine and verify the taxpayer’s
municipal income tax liability. The requirements imposed under this division
(F) apply regardless of whether the taxpayer files on a generic form or on a
form prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
   (G)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each
individual income tax return required to be filed under this section shall be
completed and filed as required by the Tax Administrator on or before the date
prescribed for the filing of state individual income tax returns under R.C. §
5747.08(G). The taxpayer shall complete and file the return or notice on forms
prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on generic forms, together with
remittance made payable to the village. No remittance is required if the net
amounts due is $10 or less.
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each annual net
profit return required to be filed under this section by a taxpayer that is not
an individual shall be completed and filed as required by the Tax Administrator
on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the end of the
taxpayer’s taxable year. The taxpayer shall complete and file the return or
notice on forms prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on generic forms,
together with remittance made payable to the village. No remittance is required
if the net amount due is $10 or less.
      (2)   Any taxpayer that has duly requested an automatic six-month
extension for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax return shall
automatically receive an extension for the filing of the village’s income tax
return. The extended due date of the village’s income tax return shall be the
fifteenth day of the tenth month after the last day of the taxable year to
which the return relates. An extension of time to file under this division (G)
(2) is not an extension of the time to pay any tax due unless the Tax
Administrator grants an extension of that date.
         (a)   A copy of the federal extension request shall be included with
the filing of the village’s income tax return.
         (b)   A taxpayer that has not requested or received a six-month
extension for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax return may request that
the Tax Administrator grant the taxpayer a six-month extension of the date for
filing the taxpayer’s village income tax return. If the request is received by
the Tax Administrator on or before the date the village income tax return is
due, the Tax Administrator shall grant the taxpayer’s requested extension.
      (3)   If the Tax Commissioner extends for all taxpayers the date for
filing state income tax returns under R.C. § 5747.08(G), a taxpayer shall
automatically receive an extension for the filing of a village’s income tax
return. The extended due date of the village’s income tax return shall be the
same as the extended due date of the state income tax return.
      (4)   If the Tax Administrator considers it necessary in order to ensure
the payment of the tax imposed by the village, the Tax Administrator may
require taxpayers to file returns and make payments otherwise than as provided
in this division (G), including taxpayers not otherwise required to file annual
returns.
      (5)   To the extent that any provision in this division (G) of this
section conflicts with any provision in divisions (N), (O), (P), or (Q) of this
section, the provisions in divisions (N), (O), (P), or (Q) prevail.
   (H)   (1)   For taxable years beginning after 2015, the village shall not
require a taxpayer to remit tax with respect to net profits if the net amount
due is $10 or less.
      (2)   Any taxpayer not required to remit tax to the village for a taxable
year pursuant to division (H)(1) of this section shall file with the village an
annual net profit return under division (F)(3) of this section, unless the
provisions of division (H)(3) apply.
      (3)   (a)   A person may notify the Tax Administrator that the person
does not expect to be a taxpayer subject to the village income tax ordinance
for a taxable year if both of the following apply:
            1.   The person was required to file a tax return with the village
for the immediately preceding taxable year because the person performed
services at a worksite location (as defined in § 38.04(C)(1)(g)) within the
village.
            2.   The person no longer provides services in the village and does
not expect to be subject to the village income tax for the taxable year.
         (b)   The person shall provide the notice in a signed affidavit that
briefly explains the person’s circumstances, including the location of the
previous worksite location and the last date on which the person performed
services or made any sales within the village. The affidavit shall also include
the following statement: “The affiant has no plans to perform any services
within the village, make any sales in the village, or otherwise become subject
to the tax levied by the village during the taxable year. If the affiant does
become subject to the tax levied by the village for the taxable year, the
affiant agrees to be considered a taxpayer and to properly comply as a taxpayer
with the village income tax ordinance and rules and regulations.” The person
shall sign the affidavit under penalty of perjury.
         (c)   If a person submits an affidavit described in division (H)(3)
(b), the Tax Administrator shall not require the person to file and tax return
for the taxable year unless the Tax Administrator possesses information that
conflicts with the affidavit or if the circumstances described in the affidavit
change.
         (d)   Nothing in division (H)(3) of this section prohibits the Tax
Administrator from performing an audit of the person.
   (I)   If a payment under this chapter is made by electronic funds transfer,
the payment shall be considered to be made on the date of the timestamp
assigned by the first electronic system receiving that payment.
   (J)   Taxes withheld for the village by an employer, the agent of an
employer, or other payer as described in §
38.04 shall be allowed to the taxpayer as credits against payment of the tax
imposed on the taxpayer by the village, unless the amounts withheld were not
remitted to the village and the recipient colluded with the employer, agent, or
other payer in connection with the failure to remit the amounts withheld.
   (K)   Each return required by the village to be filed in accordance with
this division (K) shall include a box that the taxpayer may check to authorize
another person, including a tax return preparer who prepared the return, to
communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters pertaining to the return.
   (L)   The Tax Administrator shall accept for filing a generic form of any
income tax return, report, or document required by the village, provided that
the generic form, once completed and filed, contains all of the information
required by ordinance, resolution, or rules and regulations adopted by the
village or the Tax Administrator, and provided that the taxpayer or tax return
preparer filing the generic form otherwise complies with the provisions of this
chapter and of the village’s ordinance, resolution, or rules and regulations
governing the filing of returns, reports, or documents.
   (M)   (1)   Any taxpayer subject to municipal income taxation with respect
to the taxpayer’s net profit from a business or profession may file the
village’s income tax return, estimated municipal income tax return, or
extension for filing a municipal income tax return, and may make payment of
amounts shown to be due on such returns by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
      (2)   Any employer, agent of an employer, or other payer may report the
amount of municipal income tax withheld from qualifying wages and may make
remittance of such amounts by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
      (3)   Nothing in this section affects the due dates for filing employer
withholding tax returns.
   (N)   Each member of the national guard of any state and each member of a
reserve component of the armed forces of the United States called to active
duty pursuant to an executive order issued by the president of the United
States or an act of the Congress of the United States, and each civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the armed forces, may apply to the Tax Administrator of the village
for both an extension of time for filing of the return and an extension of time
for payment of taxes required by the village during the period of the member’s
or civilian’s duty service, and for 180 days thereafter. The application shall
be filed on or before the one hundred eightieth day after the member’s or
civilian’s duty terminates. An applicant shall provide such evidence as the Tax
Administrator considers necessary to demonstrate eligibility for the extension.
   (O)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is
qualified for an extension under this section, the Tax Administrator shall
enter into a contract with the applicant for the payment of the tax in
installments that begin on the one hundred eighty-first day after the
applicant’s active duty or service terminates. The Tax Administrator may
prescribe such contract terms as the Tax Administrator considers appropriate.
However, taxes pursuant to a contract entered into under this division (O) are
not delinquent, and the Tax Administrator shall not require any payments of
penalties or interest in connection with those taxes for the extension period.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator determines that an applicant is qualified
for an extension under this section, the applicant shall neither be required to
file any return, report, or other tax document nor be required to pay any tax
otherwise due to the municipal corporation before the one hundred eighty-first
day after the applicant’s active duty or service terminates.
      (3)   Taxes paid pursuant to a contract entered into under division (O)
(1) of this section are not delinquent. The Tax Administrator shall not require
any payments of penalties or interest in connection with those taxes for the
extension period.
   (P)   (1)   Nothing in this division denies to any person described in this
division the application of divisions (N) and (O) of this section.
      (2)   (a)   A qualifying taxpayer who is eligible for an extension under
the Internal Revenue Code shall receive both an extension of time in which to
file any return, report, or other tax document and an extension of time in
which to make any payment of taxes required by a municipal corporation in
accordance with this chapter. The length of any extension granted under this
division (P)(2)(a) shall be equal to the length of the corresponding extension
that the taxpayer receives under the Internal Revenue Code. As used in this
division (P)(2)(a), QUALIFYING TAXPAYER means a member of the national guard or
a member of a reserve component of the armed forces of the United States called
to active duty pursuant to either an executive order issued by the president of
the United States or an act of the Congress of the United States, or a civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the armed forces.
         (b)   Taxes whose payment is extended in accordance with division (P)
(2)(a) of this section are not delinquent during the extension period. Such
taxes become delinquent on the first day after the expiration of the extension
period if the taxes are not paid prior to that date. The Tax Administrator
shall not require any payment of penalties or interest in connection with those
taxes for the extension period. The Tax Administrator shall not include any
period of extension granted under division (C)(2)(a) of this section in
calculating the penalty or interest due on any unpaid tax.
   (Q)   For each taxable year to which division (N), (O), or (P) of this
section applies to a taxpayer, the provisions of divisions (O)(2) and (O)(3) of
this section, as applicable, apply to the spouse of that taxpayer if the filing
status of the spouse and the taxpayer is married filing jointly for that year.
   (R)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AFFILIATED GROUP OF CORPORATIONS. A affiliated group as defined in § 1504
of the Internal Revenue Code, except that, if such a group includes at least
one incumbent local exchange carrier that is primarily engaged in the business
of providing local exchange telephone service in this state, the affiliated
group shall not include any incumbent local exchange carrier that would
otherwise be included in the group.
      CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN. A consolidated return filed for
federal income tax purposes pursuant to § 1501 of the Internal Revenue Code.
      CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME. The consolidated taxable income of
an affiliated group of corporations, as computed for the purposes of filing a
consolidated federal income tax return, before consideration of net operating
losses or special deductions. CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME does not
include income or loss of an incumbent local exchange carrier that is excluded
from the affiliated group under the definition of affiliated group of
corporations.
      INCUMBENT LOCAL EXCHANGE CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4927.01.
      LOCAL EXCHANGE TELEPHONE SERVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5727.01.
   (S)   (1)   For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016, a
taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations may elect to
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year if at least
one member of the affiliated group of corporations is subject to the village’s
income tax in that taxable year, and if the affiliated group of corporations
filed a consolidated federal income tax return with respect to that taxable
year. The election is binding for a five-year period beginning with the first
taxable year of the initial election unless a change in the reporting method is
required under federal law. The election continues to be binding for each
subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to discontinue filing
consolidated municipal income tax returns under division (S)(2) of this section
or a taxpayer receives permission from the Tax Administrator. The Tax
Administrator shall approve such a request for good cause shown.
      (2)   An election to discontinue filing consolidated municipal income tax
returns under this section must be made in the first year following the last
year of a five-year consolidated municipal income tax return election period in
effect under division (S)(1) of this section. The election to discontinue
filing a consolidated municipal income tax return is binding for a five-year
period beginning with the first taxable year of the election.
      (3)   An election made under division (S)(1) or (S)(2) of this section is
binding on all members of the affiliated group of corporations subject to a
municipal income tax.
   (T)   A taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations
that filed a consolidated federal income tax return for a taxable year shall
file a consolidated village income tax return for that taxable year if the Tax
Administrator determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, that intercompany
transactions have not been conducted at arm’s length and that there has been a
distortive shifting of income or expenses with regard to allocation of net
profits to the village. A taxpayer that is required to file a consolidated
village income tax return for a taxable year shall file a consolidated village
income tax return for all subsequent taxable years, unless the taxpayer
requests and receives written permission from the Tax Administrator to file a
separate return or a taxpayer has experienced a change in circumstances.
   (U)   A taxpayer shall prepare a consolidated village income tax return in
the same manner as is required under the United States Department of Treasury
regulations that prescribe procedures for the preparation of the consolidated
federal income tax return required to be filed by the common parent of the
affiliated group of which the taxpayer is a member.
   (V)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (V)(2) through (V)(4)
of this section, corporations that file a consolidated municipal income tax
return shall compute adjusted federal taxable income, as defined in §
38.02, by substituting “consolidated federal taxable income” for “federal
taxable income” wherever “federal taxable income” appears in that division and
by substituting “an affiliated group of corporation’s” for “a C corporation’s”
wherever “a C corporation’s” appears in that division.
      (2)   No corporation filing a consolidated village income tax return
shall make any adjustment otherwise required under the definition of “adjusted
federal taxable income” in §
38.02 to the extent that the item of income or deduction otherwise subject to
the adjustment has been eliminated or consolidated in the computation of
consolidated federal taxable income.
      (3)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having at least
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group’s consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, the
corporation filing a consolidated village income tax return shall do one of the
following with respect to that pass-through entity’s net profit or loss for
that taxable year:
         (a)   Exclude the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in divisions (R) through (Y) of
this section, exclude the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-
through entity in the computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused
to the village. If the entity’s net profit or loss is so excluded, the entity
shall be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of the
entity’s net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group; or
         (b)   Include the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in divisions (R) through (Y) of
this section, include the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-
through entity in the computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused
to the village. If the entity’s net profit or loss is so included, the entity
shall not be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of the
entity’s net profits that are included in the consolidated federal taxable
income of the affiliated group.
      (4)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having less than
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group’s consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, all
of the following shall apply:
         (a)   The corporation filing the consolidated municipal income tax
return shall exclude the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purposes of making the computations required in divisions (R) through (Y) of
this section, exclude the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-
through entity in the computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused
to the village; and
         (b)   The pass-through entity shall be subject to the village income
taxation as a separate taxpayer in accordance with this chapter on the basis of
the entity’s net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
   (W)   Corporations filing a consolidated village income tax return shall
make the computations required under divisions (R) through (Y) of this section
by substituting “consolidated federal taxable income attributable to” for “net
profit from” wherever “net profit from” appears in that section and by
substituting “affiliated group of corporations” for “taxpayer” wherever
“taxpayer” appears in that section.
   (X)   Each corporation filing a consolidated village income tax return is
jointly and severally liable for any tax, interest, penalties, fines, charges,
or other amounts imposed by the village in accordance with this chapter on the
corporation, an affiliated group of which the corporation is a member for any
portion of the taxable year, or any one or more members of such an affiliated
group.
   (Y)   Corporations and their affiliates that made an election or entered
into an agreement with the village before January 1, 2016, to file a
consolidated or combined tax return with the village may continue to file
consolidated or combined tax returns in accordance with such election or
agreement for taxable years beginning on and after January 1, 2016.
(Ord. 2015-032, passed 9-21-2015; Ord. 2018-017, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 38.06 CREDIT FOR TAX PAID TO OTHER MUNICIPALITIES.
   No credit is provided to residents for tax paid to other municipalities.
(Ord. 2015-032, passed 9-21-2015)
§ 38.07 ESTIMATED TAXES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ESTIMATED TAXES. The amount that the taxpayer reasonably estimates to be
the taxpayer’s tax liability for village income tax for the current taxable
year.
      TAX LIABILITY. The total taxes due to the village for the taxable year,
after allowing any credit to which the taxpayer is entitled, and after applying
any estimated tax payment, withholding payment, or credit from another taxable
year.
   (B)   (1)   Every taxpayer shall make a declaration of estimated taxes for
the current taxable year, on the form prescribed by the Tax Administrator, if
the amount payable as estimated taxes is at least $200. For the purposes of
this section:
         (a)   Taxes withheld for the village from qualifying wages shall be
considered as paid to the village in equal amounts on each payment date unless
the taxpayer establishes the dates on which all amounts were actually withheld,
in which case they shall be considered as paid on the dates on which the
amounts were actually withheld; and
         (b)   An overpayment of tax applied as a credit to a subsequent
taxable year is deemed to be paid on the date of the postmark stamped on the
cover in which the payment is mailed or, if the payment is made by electronic
funds transfer, the date the payment is submitted. As used in this division (B)
(1)(b), DATE OF THE POSTMARK means, in the event there is more than one date on
the cover, the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
      (2)   Taxpayers filing joint returns shall file joint declarations of
estimated taxes. A taxpayer may amend a declaration under rules prescribed by
the Tax Administrator. A taxpayer having a taxable year of less than 12 months
shall make a declaration under rules prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
      (3)   The declaration of estimated taxes shall be filed on or before the
date prescribed for the filing of municipal income tax returns under §
38.05(G) or on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the
taxpayer becomes subject to tax for the first time.
      (4)   Taxpayers reporting on a fiscal year basis shall file a declaration
on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the beginning of each
fiscal year or period.
      (5)   The original declaration or any subsequent amendment may be
increased or decreased on or before any subsequent quarterly payment day as
provided in this section.
   (C)   (1)   The required portion of the tax liability for the taxable year
that shall be paid through estimated taxes made payable to the village,
including the application of tax refunds to estimated taxes and withholding on
or before the applicable payment date, shall be as follows:
         (a)   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 22.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (b)   On or before the fifteenth day of the sixth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 45% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (c)   On or before the fifteenth day of the ninth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 67.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
and
         (d)   For an individual, on or before the fifteenth day of the first
month of the following taxable year, 90% of the tax liability for the taxable
year. For a person other than an individual, on or before the fifteenth day of
the twelfth month of the taxable year, 90% of the tax liability for the taxable
year.
      (2)   When an amended declaration has been filed, the unpaid balance
shown due on the amended declaration shall be paid in equal installments on or
before the remaining payment dates.
      (3)   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month of the year
following that for which the declaration or amended declaration was filed, an
annual return shall be filed and any balance which may be due shall be paid
with the return in accordance with § 718.05.
   (D)   (1)   In the case of any underpayment of any portion’ of a tax
liability, penalty and interest may be imposed pursuant to §
38.18 upon the amount of underpayment for the period of underpayment, unless
the underpayment is due to reasonable cause as described in division (E) of
this section. The amount of the underpayment shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   For the first payment of estimated taxes each year, 22.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (b)   For the second payment of estimated taxes each year, 45% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (c)   For the third payment of estimated taxes each year, 67.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment; and
         (d)   For the fourth payment of estimated taxes each year, 90% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment.
      (2)   The period of the underpayment shall run from the day the estimated
payment was required to be made to the date on which the payment is made. For
purposes of this section, a payment of estimated taxes on or before any payment
date shall be considered a payment of any previous underpayment only to the
extent the payment of estimated taxes exceeds the amount of the payment
presently required to be paid to avoid any penalty.
   (E)   An underpayment of any portion of tax liability determined under
division (D) of this section shall be due to reasonable cause and the penalty
imposed by this section shall not be added to the taxes for the taxable year if
any of the following apply:
      (1)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 90% of
the tax liability for the current taxable year, determined by annualizing the
income received during the year up to the end of the month immediately
preceding the month in which the payment is due;
      (2)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 100%
of the tax liability shown on the return of the taxpayer for the preceding
taxable year, provided that the immediately preceding taxable year reflected a
period of 12 months and the taxpayer filed a return with the village under §
38.05 for that year; or
      (3)   The taxpayer is an individual who resides in the village but was
not domiciled there on January 1 of the calendar year that includes the first
day of the taxable year.
(Ord. 2015-032, passed 9-21-2015; Ord. 2018-017, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 38.08 ROUNDING OF AMOUNTS.
   A person may round to the nearest whole dollar all amounts the person is
required to enter on any return, report, voucher, or other document required
under this chapter. Any fractional part of a dollar that equals or exceeds
$0.50 shall be rounded to the next whole dollar, and any fractional part of a
dollar that is less than $0.50 shall be dropped. If a person chooses to round
amounts entered on a document, the person shall round all amounts entered on
the document.
(Ord. 2015-032, passed 9-21-2015)
§ 38.09 REQUESTS FOR REFUNDS.
   (A)   As used in this section, WITHHOLDING TAX has the same meaning as in §
38.18.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a request for a refund, the Tax Administrator, in
accordance with this section, shall refund to employers, agents of employers,
other payers, or taxpayers, with respect to any income or withholding tax
levied by the municipal corporation:
      (1)   Overpayments of more than $10 or more; and
      (2)   Amounts paid erroneously if the refund requested exceeds $10 or
more.
   (C)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, requests for
refund shall be filed with the Tax Administrator, on the form prescribed by the
Tax Administrator within three years after the tax was due or paid, whichever
is later. The Tax Administrator may require the requestor to file with the
request any documentation that substantiates the requestor’s claim for a
refund.
      (2)   On filing of the refund request, the Tax Administrator shall
determine the amount of refund due and certify such amount to the appropriate
municipal corporation official for payment. Except as provided in division (C)
(3) of this section, the Administrator shall issue an assessment to any
taxpayer whose request for refund is fully or partially denied. The assessment
shall state the amount of the refund that was denied, the reasons for the
denial, and instructions for appealing the assessment.
      (3)   If a Tax Administrator denies in whole or in part a refund request
included within the taxpayer’s originally filed annual income tax return, the
Tax Administrator shall notify the taxpayer, in writing, of the amount of the
refund that was denied, the reasons for the denial, and instructions for
requesting an assessment that may be appealed under §
38.21.
   (D)   A request for a refund that is received after the last day for filing
specified in division (C) of this section shall be considered to have been
filed in a timely manner if any of the following situations exist:
      (1)   The request is delivered by the postal service, and the earliest
postal service postmark on the cover in which the request is enclosed is not
later than the last day for filing the request;
      (2)   The request is delivered by the postal service, the only postmark
on the cover in which the request is enclosed was affixed by a private postal
meter, the date of that postmark is not later than the last day for filing the
request, and the request is received within seven days of such last day; or
      (3)   The request is delivered by the postal service, no postmark date
was affixed to the cover in which the request is enclosed or the date of the
postmark so affixed is not legible, and the request is received within seven
days of the last day for making the request.
   (E)   Interest shall be allowed and paid on any overpayment by a taxpayer of
any municipal income tax obligation from the date of the overpayment until the
date of the refund of the overpayment, except that if any overpayment is
refunded within 90 days after the final filing date of the annual return or 90
days after the completed return is filed, whichever is later, no interest shall
be allowed on the refund. For the purpose of computing the payment of interest
on amounts overpaid, no amount of tax for any taxable year shall be considered
to have been paid before the date on which the return on which the tax is
reported is due, without regard to any extension of time for filing that
return. Interest shall be paid at the interest rate described in §
38.18(A).
(Ord. 2015-032, passed 9-21-2015)
§ 38.10 SECOND MUNICIPALITY IMPOSING TAX AFTER TIME PERIOD ALLOWED FOR REFUND.
   (A)   Income tax that has been deposited with the village, but should have
been deposited with another municipality, is allowable by the village as a
refund but is subject to the three-year limitation on refunds.
   (B)   Income tax that was deposited with another municipality but should
have been deposited with the village is subject to recovery by the village. If
the village’s tax on that income is imposed after the time period allowed for a
refund of the tax or withholding paid to the other municipality, the village
shall allow a nonrefundable credit against the tax or withholding the village
claims is due with respect to such income or wages, equal to the tax or
withholding paid to the first municipality with respect to such income or
wages.
   (C)   If the village’s tax rate is less than the tax rate in the other
municipality, then the nonrefundable credit shall be calculated using the
village’s tax rate. However, if the village’s tax rate is greater than the tax
rate in the other municipality, the tax due in excess of the nonrefundable
credit is to be paid to the village, along with any penalty and interest that
accrued during the period of nonpayment.
   (D)   Nothing in this section permits any credit carryforward.
(Ord. 2015-032, passed 9-21-2015)
§ 38.11 AMENDED RETURNS.
   (A)   (1)   If a taxpayer’s tax liability shown on the annual tax return for
village changes as a result of an adjustment to the taxpayer’s federal or state
income tax return, the taxpayer shall file an amended return with the village.
The amended return shall be filed on a form required by the Tax Administrator.
      (2)   If a taxpayer intends to file an amended consolidated municipal
income tax return, or to amend its type of return from a separate return to a
consolidated return, based on the taxpayer’s consolidated federal income tax
return, the taxpayer shall notify the Tax Administrator before filing the
amended return.
   (B)   (1)   In the case of an underpayment, the amended return shall be
accompanied by payment of any combined additional tax due together with any
penalty and interest thereon. If the combined tax shown to be due is $10 or
less, no payment need be made. The amended return shall reopen those facts,
figures, computations, or attachments from a previously filed return that are
not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the
taxpayer’s federal or state income tax return only:
         (a)   To determine the amount of tax that would be due if all facts,
figures, computations, and attachments were reopened; or
         (b)   If the applicable statute of limitations for civil actions or
prosecutions under §
38.12 has not expired for a previously filed return.
      (2)   The additional tax to be paid shall not exceed the amount of tax
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations, and attachments were
reopened (i.e., the payment shall be the lesser of the two amounts).
   (C)   (1)   In the case of an overpayment, a request for refund may be filed
under this division (C) within the period prescribed by §
38.12(E) for filing the amended return even if it is filed beyond the period
prescribed in that division if it otherwise conforms to the requirements of
that division. If the amount of the refund is less than $10, no refund need be
paid by the village. A request filed under this division (C) shall claim refund
of overpayments resulting from alterations only to those facts, figures,
computations, or attachments required in the taxpayer’s annual return that are
affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the taxpayer’s
federal or state income tax return, unless it is also filed within the time
prescribed in §
38.09.
      (2)   The amount to be refunded shall not exceed the amount of refund
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations, and attachments were
reopened. All facts, figures, computations, and attachments may be reopened to
determine the refund amount due by inclusion of all facts, figures,
computations, and attachments.
   (D)   Within 60 days after the final determination of any federal or state
tax liability affecting the taxpayer’s village’s tax liability, that taxpayer
shall make and file an amended village return showing income subject to the
village income tax based upon such final determination of federal or state tax
liability. The taxpayer shall pay any additional village income tax shown due
thereon or make a claim for refund of any overpayment, unless the tax or
overpayment is less than $10.
(Ord. 2015-032, passed 9-21-2015)
§ 38.12 LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Civil actions to recover municipal income taxes and
penalties and interest on municipal income taxes shall be brought within the
later of:
            1.   Three years after the tax was due or the return was filed,
whichever is later; or
            2.   One year after the conclusion of the qualifying deferral
period, if any.
         (b)   The time limit described in division (A)(1)(a) of this section
may be extended at any time if both the Tax Administrator and the employer,
agent of the employer, other payer, or taxpayer consent in writing to the
extension. Any extension shall also extend for the same period of time the time
limit described in division (C) of this section.
      (2)   As used in this section, QUALIFYING DEFERRAL PERIOD means a period
of time beginning and ending as follows:
         (a)   Beginning on the date a person who is aggrieved by an assessment
files with the Board of Tax Review the request described in §
38.21. That date shall not be affected by any subsequent decision, finding, or
holding by any administrative body or court that the Board of Tax Review did
not have jurisdiction to affirm, reverse, or modify the assessment or any part
of that assessment; and
         (b)   Ending the later of the sixtieth day after the date on which the
final determination of the Board of Tax Review becomes final or, if any party
appeals from the determination of the Board of Tax Review, the sixtieth day
after the date on which the final determination of the Board of Tax Review is
either ultimately affirmed in whole or in part or ultimately reversed and no
further appeal of either that affirmation, in whole or in part, or that
reversal is available or taken.
   (B)   Prosecutions for an offense made punishable under a resolution or
ordinance imposing an income tax shall be commenced within three years after
the commission of the offense, provided that in the case of fraud, failure to
file a return, or the omission of 25% or more of income required to be
reported, prosecutions may be commenced within six years after the commission
of the offense.
   (C)   A claim for a refund of municipal income taxes shall be brought within
the time limitation provided in §
38.09.
   (D)   (1)   Notwithstanding the fact that an appeal is pending, the
petitioner may pay all or a portion of the assessment that is the subject of
the appeal. The acceptance of a payment by the village does not prejudice any
claim for refund upon final determination of the appeal.
      (2)   If upon final determination of the appeal an error in the
assessment is corrected by the Tax Administrator, upon an appeal so filed or
pursuant to a final determination of the Board of Tax Review, of the Board of
Tax Appeals, or any court to which the decision of the state’s Board of Tax
Appeals has been appealed, so that the resultant amount due is less than the
amount paid, a refund will be paid in the amount of the overpayment as provided
by §
38.09, with interest on that amount as provided by §
38.09(E).
   (E)   No civil action to recover village income tax or related penalties or
interest shall be brought during either of the following time periods:
      (1)   The period during which a taxpayer has a right to appeal the
imposition of that tax or interest or those penalties; or
      (2)   The period during which an appeal related to the imposition of that
tax or interest or those penalties is pending.
(Ord. 2015-032, passed 9-21-2015)
§ 38.13 AUDITS.
   (A)   At or before the commencement of an audit, the Tax Administrator shall
provide to the taxpayer a written description of the roles of the Tax
Administrator and of the taxpayer during the audit and a statement of the
taxpayer’s rights, including any right to obtain a refund of an overpayment of
a tax. At or before the commencement of an audit, the Tax Administrator shall
inform the taxpayer when the audit is considered to have commenced.
   (B)   Except in cases involving suspected criminal activity, the Tax
Administrator shall conduct an audit of a taxpayer during regular business
hours and after providing reasonable notice to the taxpayer. A taxpayer who is
unable to comply with a proposed time for an audit on the grounds that the
proposed time would cause inconvenience or hardship must offer reasonable
alternative dates for the audit.
   (C)   (1)   At all stages of an audit by the Tax Administrator, a taxpayer
is entitled to be assisted or represented by an attorney, accountant,
bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner. The Tax Administrator shall prescribe a
form by which a taxpayer may designate such a person to assist or represent the
taxpayer in the conduct of any proceedings resulting from actions by the Tax
Administrator. If a taxpayer has not submitted such a form, the Tax
Administrator may accept other evidence, as the Tax Administrator considers
appropriate, that a person is the authorized representative of a taxpayer.
      (2)   A taxpayer may refuse to answer any questions asked by the person
conducting an audit until the taxpayer has an opportunity to consult with the
taxpayer’s attorney, accountant, bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner.
      (3)   This division (C) does not authorize the practice of law by a
person who is not an attorney.
   (D)   A taxpayer may record, electronically or otherwise, the audit
examination.
   (E)   The failure of the Tax Administrator to comply with a provision of
this section shall neither excuse a taxpayer from payment of any taxes owed by
the taxpayer nor cure any procedural defect in a taxpayer’s case.
   (F)   If the Tax Administrator fails to substantially comply with the
provisions of this section, the Tax Administrator, upon application by the
taxpayer, shall excuse the taxpayer from penalties and interest.
(Ord. 2015-032, passed 9-21-2015)
§ 38.14 SERVICE OF ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LAST KNOWN ADDRESS. The address the Tax Administrator has at the time a
document is originally sent by certified mail, or any address the Tax
Administrator can ascertain using reasonable means such as the use of a change
of address service offered by the postal service or an authorized delivery
service under R.C. § 5703.056.
      UNDELIVERABLE ADDRESS. An address to which the postal service or an
authorized delivery service under R.C. § 5703.056 is not able to deliver an
assessment of the Tax Administrator, except when the reason for non-delivery is
because the addressee fails to acknowledge or accept the assessment.
   (B)   Subject to division (C) of this section, a copy of each assessment
shall be served upon the person affected thereby either by personal service, by
certified mail, or by a delivery service authorized under R.C. § 5703.056. With
the permission of the person affected by an assessment, the Tax Administrator
may deliver the assessment through alternative means as provided in this
section, including, but not limited to, delivery by secure electronic mail.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   If certified mail is returned because of an undeliverable
address, a Tax Administrator shall utilize reasonable means to ascertain a new
last known address, including the use of a change of address service offered by
the postal service or an authorized delivery service under R.C. § 5703.056. If
the Tax Administrator is unable to ascertain a new last known address, the
assessment shall be sent by ordinary mail and considered served. If the
ordinary mail is subsequently returned because of an undeliverable address, the
assessment remains appealable within 60 days after the assessment’s postmark.
         (b)   Once the Tax Administrator or other village official, or the
designee of either, serves an assessment on the person to whom the assessment
is directed, the person may protest the ruling of that assessment by filing an
appeal with the local board of tax review within 60 days after the receipt of
service. The delivery of an assessment of the Tax Administrator under division
(C)(1)(a) of this section is prima facie evidence that delivery is complete and
that the assessment is served.
      (2)   (a)   If mailing of an assessment by a Tax Administrator by
certified mail is returned for some cause other than an undeliverable address,
the Tax Administrator shall resend the assessment by ordinary mail. The
assessment shall show the date the Tax Administrator sends the assessment and
include the following statement:
“This assessment is deemed to be served on the addressee under applicable law
ten days from the date this assessment was mailed by the Tax Administrator as
shown on the assessment, and all periods within which an appeal may be filed
apply from and after that date.”
         (b)   Unless the mailing is returned because of an undeliverable
address, the mailing of that information is prima facie evidence that delivery
of the assessment was completed ten days after the Tax Administrator sent the
assessment by ordinary mail and that the assessment was served.
         (c)   If the ordinary mail is subsequently returned because of an
undeliverable address, the Tax Administrator shall proceed under division (C)
(1)(a) of this section. A person may challenge the presumption of delivery and
service under this division (C) in accordance with division (D) of this
section.
   (D)   (1)   A person disputing the presumption of delivery and service under
division (C) of this section bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of
the evidence that the address to which the assessment was sent by certified
mail was not an address with which the person was associated at the time the
Tax Administrator originally mailed the assessment. For the purposes of this
section, a person is associated with an address at the time the Tax
Administrator originally mailed the assessment if, at that time, the person was
residing, receiving legal documents, or conducting business at the address; or
if, before that time, the person had conducted business at the address and,
when the assessment was mailed, the person’s agent or the person’s affiliate
was conducting business at the address. For the purposes of this section, a
person’s affiliate is any other person that, at the time the assessment was
mailed, owned or controlled at least 20%, as determined by voting rights, of
the addressee’s business.
      (2)   If a person elects to appeal an assessment on the basis described
in division (D)(1) of this section, and if that assessment is subject to
collection and is not otherwise appealable, the person must do so within 60
days after the initial contact by the Tax Administrator or other village
official, or the designee of either, with the person. Nothing in this division
(D) prevents the Tax Administrator or other official from entering into a
compromise with the person if the person does not actually file such an appeal
with the local Board of Tax Review.
   (E)   Nothing in this section prohibits the Tax Administrator or the Tax
Administrator’s designee from delivering an assessment by a Tax Administrator
by personal service.
   (F)   Collection actions taken upon any assessment being appealed under
division (C)(1)(b) of this section, including those on which a claim has been
delivered for collection, shall be stayed upon the pendency of an appeal under
this section.
   (G)   Additional regulations as detailed in the rules and regulations shall
apply.
(Ord. 2015-032, passed 9-21-2015)
§ 38.15 ADMINISTRATION OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a claim for an amount payable to
the village that arises pursuant to the village’s income tax imposed in
accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a Tax Administrator from doing
either of the following if such action is in the best interests of the
municipal corporation:
      (1)   Compromise a claim; and
      (2)   Extend for a reasonable period the time for payment of a claim by
agreeing to accept monthly or other periodic payments.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator’s rejection of a compromise or payment-over-time
agreement proposed by a person with respect to a claim shall not be appealable.
   (D)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a claim
shall be binding upon and shall be to the benefit of only the parties to the
compromise or agreement, and shall not eliminate or otherwise affect the
liability of any other person.
   (E)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a claim
shall be void if the taxpayer defaults under the compromise or agreement or if
the compromise or agreement was obtained by fraud or by misrepresentation of a
material fact. Any amount that was due before the compromise or agreement and
that is unpaid shall remain due, and any penalties or interest that would have
accrued in the absence of the compromise or agreement shall continue to accrue
and be due.
(Ord. 2015-032, passed 9-21-2015)
§ 38.16 TAX INFORMATION CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Any information gained as a result of returns, investigations,
hearings, or verifications required or authorized by this chapter is
confidential, and no person shall access or disclose such information except in
accordance with a proper judicial order or in connection with the performance
of that person’s official duties or the official business of the village as
authorized by this chapter. The Tax Administrator or a designee thereof may
furnish copies of returns filed or otherwise received under this chapter and
other related tax information to the Internal Revenue Service, the Tax
Commissioner, and Tax Administrators of other municipal corporations.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit the village from publishing or
disclosing statistics in a form that does not disclose information with respect
to particular taxpayers.
(Ord. 2015-032, passed 9-21-2015) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.17 FRAUD.
   No person shall knowingly make, present, aid, or assist in the preparation
or presentation of a false or fraudulent, report, return, schedule, statement,
claim, or document authorized or required by village ordinance or state law to
be filed with a the Tax Administrator, or knowingly procure, counsel, or advise
the preparation or presentation of such report, return, schedule, statement,
claim, or document, or knowingly change, alter, or amend, or knowingly procure,
counsel, or advise such change, alteration, or amendment of the records upon
which such report, return, schedule, statement, claim, or document is based
with intent to defraud the village or the Tax Administrator.
(Ord. 2015-032, passed 9-21-2015) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.18 INTEREST.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      APPLICABLE LAW. This chapter, the resolutions, ordinances, codes,
directives, instructions, and rules adopted by the village, provided they
impose or directly or indirectly address the levy, payment, remittance, or
filing requirements of the village.
      FEDERAL SHORT-TERM RATE. The rate of the average market yield on
outstanding marketable obligations of the United States with remaining periods
to maturity of three years or less, as determined under § 1274 of the Internal
Revenue Code, for July of the current year.
      INCOME TAX, ESTIMATED INCOME TAX, and WITHHOLDING TAX. Any income tax,
estimated income tax, and withholding tax imposed by the village pursuant to
applicable law, including at any time before January 1, 2016.
      INTEREST RATE. The federal short-term rate, rounded to the nearest whole
number percent, plus 5%. The rate shall apply for the calendar year next
following the July of the year in which the federal short-term rate is
determined in accordance with the definition of “federal short-term rate”
      RETURN. Includes any tax return, report, reconciliation, schedule, and
other document required to be filed with a the Tax Administrator or the village
by a taxpayer, employer, any agent of the employer, or any other payer pursuant
to applicable law, including at any time before January 1, 2016.
      UNPAID ESTIMATED INCOME TAX. Estimated income tax due but not paid by the
date the tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      UNPAID INCOME TAX. Income tax due but not paid by the date the income tax
is required to be paid under applicable law.
      UNPAID WITHHOLDING TAX. Withholding tax due but not paid by the date the
withholding tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      WITHHOLDING TAX. Includes amounts an employer, any agent of an employer,
or any other payer did not withhold in whole or in part from an employee’s
qualifying wages, but that, under applicable law, the employer, agent, or other
payer is required to withhold from an employee’s qualifying wages.
   (B)   (1)   This section applies to the following:
         (a)   Any return required to be filed under applicable law for taxable
years beginning on or after January 1, 2016; and
         (b)   Income tax, estimated income tax, and withholding tax required
to be paid or remitted to the village on or after January 1, 2016.
      (2)   This section does not apply to returns required to be filed or
payments required to be made before January 1, 2016, regardless of the filing
or payment date. Returns required to be filed or payments required to be made
before January 1, 2016, but filed or paid after that date shall be subject to
the ordinances or rules and regulations, as adopted before January 1, 2016, of
the village to which the return is to be filed or the payment is to be made.
   (C)   Should any taxpayer, employer, agent of the employer, or other payer
for any reason fails, in whole or in part, to make timely and full payment or
remittance of income tax, estimated income tax, or withholding tax or to file
timely with the village any return required to be filed, the following
penalties and interest shall apply.
      (1)   Interest shall be imposed at the rate described in division (A) of
this section, per annum, on all unpaid income tax, unpaid estimated income tax,
and unpaid withholding tax.
      (2)   (a)   With respect to unpaid income tax and unpaid estimated income
tax, the village may impose a penalty equal to 15% of the amount not timely
paid.
         (b)   With respect to any unpaid withholding tax, the village may
impose a penalty not exceeding 50% of the amount not timely paid.
      (3)   With respect to returns other than estimated income tax returns,
the village may impose a penalty of $25 for each failure to timely file each
return, regardless of the liability shown thereon for each month, of any
fraction thereof, during which the return remains unfiled regardless of the
liability shown thereon. The penalty shall not exceed $150 for each failure.
   (D)   Nothing in this section requires the village to refund or credit any
penalty, amount of interest, charges, or additional fees that the village has
properly imposed or collected before January 1, 2016.
   (E)   Nothing in this section limits the authority of the village to abate
or partially abate penalties or interest imposed under this section when the
Tax Administrator determines, in the Tax Administrator’s sole discretion, that
such abatement is appropriate.
   (F)   By October 31 of each year, the village shall publish the rate
described in division (A) of this section applicable to the next succeeding
calendar year.
   (G)   The village may impose on the taxpayer, employer, any agent of the
employer, or any other payer the village’s post-judgment collection costs and
fees, including attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 2015-032, passed 9-21-2015; Ord. 2018-017, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 38.19 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; VERIFICATION OF INFORMATION.
   (A)   Authority. Nothing in this chapter shall limit the authority of the
Tax Administrator to perform any of the following duties or functions, unless
the performance of such duties or functions is expressly limited by a provision
of the Ohio Revised Code:
      (1)   (a)   Exercise all powers whatsoever of a query nature as provided
by law, including, the right to inspect books, accounts, records, memorandums,
and federal and state income tax returns, to examine persons under oath, to
issue orders or subpoenas for the production of books, accounts, papers,
records, documents, and testimony, to take depositions, to apply to a court for
attachment proceedings as for contempt, to approve vouchers for the fees of
officers and witnesses, and to administer oaths; and
         (b)   The powers referred to in this division (A)(1) of this section
shall be exercised by the Tax Administrator only in connection with the
performance of the duties respectively assigned to the Tax Administrator under
the village’s income tax ordinance.
      (2)   Appoint agents and prescribe their powers and duties;
      (3)   Confer and meet with officers of other municipal corporations and
states and officers of the United States on any matters pertaining to their
respective official duties as provided by law;
      (4)   Exercise the authority provided by law, including orders from
bankruptcy courts, relative to remitting or refunding taxes, including
penalties and interest thereon, for any reason overpaid. In addition, the Tax
Administrator may investigate any claim of overpayment and, if the Tax
Administrator finds that there has been an overpayment, make a written
statement of the Tax Administrator’s findings, and approve and issue a refund
payable to the taxpayer, the taxpayer’s assigns, or legal representative as
provided in this chapter;
      (5)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to consenting to
the compromise and settlement of tax claims;
      (6)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to the use of
alternative apportionment methods by taxpayers in accordance with §
38.03;
      (7)   (a)   Make all tax findings, determinations, computations, and
orders the Tax Administrator is by law authorized and required to make and,
pursuant to time limitations provided by law, on the Tax Administrator’s own
motion, review, re-determine, or correct any tax findings, determinations,
computations, or orders the Tax Administrator has made.
         (b)   If an appeal has been filed with the Board of Tax Review or
other appropriate tribunal, the Tax Administrator shall not review, re-
determine, or correct any tax finding, determination, computation, or order
which the Tax Administrator has made, unless such appeal or application is
withdrawn by the appellant or applicant, is dismissed, or is otherwise final;
      (8)   Destroy any or all returns or other tax documents in the manner
authorized by law; and
      (9)   Enter into an agreement with a taxpayer to simplify the withholding
obligations described in §
38.04.
   (B)   Verification of accuracy of returns and determination of liability.
      (1)   A Tax Administrator, or any authorized agent or employee thereof
may examine the books, papers, records, and federal and state income tax
returns of any employer, taxpayer, or other person that is subject to, or that
the Tax Administrator believes is subject to, the provisions of this chapter
for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of any return made or, if no return
was filed, to ascertain the tax due under this chapter. Upon written request by
the Tax Administrator or a duly authorized agent or employee thereof, every
employer, taxpayer, or other person subject to this section is required to
furnish the opportunity for the Tax Administrator, authorized agent, or
employee to investigate and examine such books, papers, records, and federal
and state income tax returns at a reasonable time and place designated in the
request.
      (2)   The records and other documents of any taxpayer, employer, or other
person that is subject to, or that a Tax Administrator believes is subject to,
the provisions of this chapter shall be open to the Tax Administrator’s
inspection during business hours and shall be preserved for a period of six
years, following the end of the taxable year to which the records or documents
relate, unless the Tax Administrator, in writing, consents to their destruction
within that period, or by order requires that they be kept longer. The Tax
Administrator may require any person, by notice served on that person, to keep
such records as the Tax Administrator determines necessary to show whether or
not that person is liable, and the extent of such liability, for the income tax
levied by the village or for the withholding of such tax.
      (3)   The Tax Administrator may examine under oath any person that the
Tax Administrator reasonably believes has knowledge concerning any income that
was or would have been returned for taxation or any transaction tending to
affect such income. The Tax Administrator may, for this purpose, compel any
such person to attend a hearing or examination and to produce any books,
papers, records, and federal and state income tax returns in such person’s
possession or control. The person may be assisted or represented by an
attorney, accountant, bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner at any such hearing
or examination. This division does not authorize the practice of law by a
person who is not an attorney.
      (4)   No person issued written notice by the Tax Administrator compelling
attendance at a hearing or examination or the production of books, papers,
records, or federal or state income tax returns under this section shall fail
to comply.
   (C)   Identification information.
      (1)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits the Tax Administrator from
requiring any person filing a tax document with the Tax Administrator to
provide identifying information, which may include the person’s Social Security
number, federal employer identification number, or other identification number
requested by the Tax Administrator. A person required by the Tax Administrator
to provide identifying information that has experienced any change with respect
to that information shall notify the Tax Administrator of the change before, or
upon, filing the next tax document requiring the identifying information.
      (2)   (a)   If the Tax Administrator makes a request for identifying
information and the Tax Administrator does not receive valid identifying
information within 30 days of making the request, nothing in this chapter
prohibits the Tax Administrator from imposing a penalty upon the person to whom
the request was directed pursuant to §
38.18, in addition to any applicable penalty described in §
38.99.
         (b)   If a person required by the Tax Administrator to provide
identifying information does not notify the Tax Administrator of a change with
respect to that information as required under this division (C) within 30 days
after filing the next tax document requiring such identifying information,
nothing in this chapter prohibits the Tax Administrator from imposing a penalty
pursuant to §
38.18.
         (c)   The penalties provided for under divisions (C)(2)(a) and (C)(2)
(b) of this section may be billed and imposed in the same manner as the tax or
fee with respect to which the identifying information is sought and are in
addition to any applicable criminal penalties described in §
38.99 for a violation of §
38.17 and any other penalties that may be imposed by the Tax Administrator by
law.
(Ord. 2015-032, passed 9-21-2015)
§ 38.20 REQUEST FOR OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   An OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR means an opinion issued under this
section with respect to prospective municipal income tax liability. It does not
include ordinary correspondence of the Tax Administrator.
   (B)   A taxpayer may submit a written request for an opinion of the Tax
Administrator in accordance with the rules and regulations.
   (C)   A taxpayer is not relieved of tax liability for any activity or
transaction related to a request for an opinion that contained any
misrepresentation or omission of one or more material facts.
   (D)   A Tax Administrator may refuse to offer an opinion on any request
received under this section. Such refusal is not subject to appeal.
   (E)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator binds the Tax Administrator only
with respect to the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and does not
bind the Tax Administrator of any other municipal corporation.
   (F)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator issued under this section is not
subject to appeal.
(Ord. 2015-032, passed 9-21-2015)
§ 38.21 BOARD OF TAX REVIEW.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Tax Review shall consist of three members. Two
members shall be appointed by the legislative authority of the village, but
such appointees may not be employees, elected officials, or contractors with
the village at any time during their term or in the five years immediately
preceding the date of appointment. One member shall be appointed by the Village
Manager. This member may be an employee of the village, but may not be the
Director of Finance or equivalent officer, or the Tax Administrator or other
similar official or an employee directly involved in municipal tax matters, or
any direct subordinate thereof.
      (2)   The term for members of the village’s Board of Tax Review shall be
two years. There is no limit on the number of terms that a member may serve if
the member is reappointed by the legislative authority. The Board member
appointed by the Village Manager shall serve at the discretion of the
administrative official.
      (3)   Members of the Board of Tax Review appointed by the legislative
authority may be removed by the legislative authority by majority vote for
malfeasance, misfeasance, or nonfeasance in office. To remove such a member,
the legislative authority must give the member a copy of the charges against
the member and afford the member an opportunity to be publicly heard in person
or by counsel in the member’s own defense upon not less than ten days’ notice.
The decision by the legislative authority on the charges is final and not
appealable.
      (4)   A member of the Board of Tax Review who, for any reason, ceases to
meet the qualifications for the position prescribed by this section shall
resign immediately by operation of law.
      (5)   A vacancy in an unexpired term shall be filled in the same manner
as the original appointment within 60 days of when the vacancy was created. Any
member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the
term for which the member’s predecessor was appointed shall hold office for the
remainder of such term. No vacancy on the Board of Tax Review shall impair the
power and authority of the remaining members to exercise all the powers of the
Board of Tax Review.
      (6)   If a member is temporarily unable to serve on the Board of Tax
Review due to a conflict of interest, illness, absence, or similar reason, the
legislative authority or top administrative official that appointed the member
shall appoint another individual to temporarily serve on the Board of Tax
Review in the member’s place. The appointment of such an individual shall be
subject to the same requirements and limitations as are applicable to the
appointment of the member temporarily unable to serve.
   (B)   Whenever a Tax Administrator issues an assessment, the Tax
Administrator shall notify the taxpayer in writing at the same time of the
taxpayer’s right to appeal the assessment, the manner in which the taxpayer may
appeal the assessment, and the address to which the appeal should be directed.
   (C)   Any person who has been issued an assessment may appeal the assessment
to the Board of Tax Review by filing a request with the Board of Tax Review.
The request shall be in writing, shall specify the reason or reasons why the
assessment should be deemed incorrect or unlawful, and shall be filed within 60
days after the taxpayer receives the assessment.
   (D)   The Board of Tax Review shall schedule a hearing to be held within 60
days after receiving an appeal of an assessment under division (C) of this
section, unless the taxpayer requests additional time to prepare or waives a
hearing. If the taxpayer does not waive the hearing, the taxpayer may appear
before the Board of Tax Review and may be represented by an attorney at law,
certified public accountant, or other representative. The Board of Tax Review
may allow a hearing to be continued as jointly agreed to by the parties. In
such a case, the hearing must be completed within 120 days after the first day
of the hearing unless the parties agree otherwise.
   (E)   The Board of Tax Review may affirm, reverse, or modify the Tax
Administrator’s assessment or any part of that assessment. The Board of Tax
Review shall issue a final determination on the appeal within 90 days after the
Board of Tax Review’s final hearing on the appeal, and send a copy of its final
determination by ordinary mail to all of the parties to the appeal within 15
days after issuing the final determination. The taxpayer or the Tax
Administrator may appeal the Board of Tax Review’s final determination as
provided in R.C. § 5717.011.
   (F)   The Board of Tax Review created pursuant to this section shall adopt
rules governing its procedures and shall keep a record of its transactions.
Such records are not public records available for inspection under R.C. §
149.43. Hearings requested by a taxpayer before a Board of Tax Review created
pursuant to this section are not meetings of a public body subject to R.C. §
121.22.
(Ord. 2015-032, passed 9-21-2015)
§ 38.22 AUTHORITY TO CREATE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits the legislative authority of the
village, or a Tax Administrator pursuant to authority granted to the
Administrator by resolution or ordinance, to adopt rules to administer an
income tax imposed by the village in accordance with this chapter. Such rules
shall not conflict with or be inconsistent with any provision of this chapter.
Taxpayers are hereby required to comply not only with the requirements of this
chapter, but also to comply with the rules and regulations.
   (B)   All rules adopted under this section shall be published and posted on
the internet.
(Ord. 2015-032, passed 9-21-2015)
§ 38.23 RENTAL AND LEASED PROPERTY.
   (A)   All property owners of real property located in the village who rent
or otherwise lease the same, or any part thereof, to any person for residential
dwelling purposes, including apartments, rooms and other rental accommodations,
during any calendar year, or part thereof, commencing with the effective date
of this section, shall file with the Tax Administrator on or before the January
31 first following such calendar year a written report disclosing the name,
address, and also telephone number, if available, of each tenant known to have
occupied on December 31 during such calendar year such apartment, room, or
other residential dwelling rental property.
   (B)   The Tax Administrator may order the appearance before him or her, or
his or her duly authorized agent, of any person whom he or she believes to have
any knowledge of the name, address, and telephone number of any tenant of
residential rental real property in the village. The Tax Administrator, or his
or her duly authorized agent, is authorized to examine any person, under oath,
concerning the name, address, and telephone number of any tenant of residential
real property located in the village. The Tax Administrator, or his or her duly
authorized agent, may compel the production of papers and records and the
attendance of all personal before him or her, whether as parties or witnesses,
whenever he or she believes such person has knowledge of the name, address, and
telephone number of any tenant of residential real property in the village.
   (C)   Any property owner or person that violates one or more of the
following shall be subject to §
38.99:
      (1)   Fails, refuses, or neglects to timely file a written report
required by division (A) of this section;
      (2)   Makes an incomplete or intentionally false written report required
by division (A) of this section;
      (3)   Fails to appear before the Tax Administrator or any duly authorized
agent and to produce and disclose any tenant information pursuant to any order
or subpoena of the Tax Administrator as authorized in this section; or
      (4)   Fails to comply with the provisions of this section or any order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator.
(Ord. 2015-032, passed 9-21-2015) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.24 COLLECTION OF TAX AFTER TERMINATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   This chapter shall continue effective insofar as the levy of taxes is
concerned until repealed, and insofar as the collection of taxes levied
hereunder and actions or proceedings for collecting any tax so levied or
enforcing any provisions of this chapter are concerned, it shall continue
effective until all of said taxes levied hereunder in the aforesaid periods are
fully paid and any and all suits and prosecutions for the collection of said
taxes or for the punishment of violations of this chapter shall have been fully
terminated, subject to the limitations contained in §§
38.12 and
38.99.
   (B)   Annual returns due for all or any part of the last effective year of
this chapter shall be due on the date provided in §§
38.04 and
38.05 as though the same were continuing.
(Ord. 2015-032, passed 9-21-2015)
§ 38.25 ADOPTION OF RITA RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The village hereby adopts the Regional Income Tax Agency (RITA) rules and
regulations, including amendments that may be made from time to time, for use
as the village’s income tax rules and regulations. In the event of a conflict
with any provision(s) of the village income tax chapter and the RITA rules and
regulations, this chapter will supersede. Until and if the contractual
relationship between the village and RITA ceases, this section will supersede
all other provisions within Chapter 38 regarding promulgation of rules and
regulations by the Tax Administrator.
(Ord. 2015-032, passed 9-21-2015)
§ 38.26 ELECTION TO BE SUBJECT TO R.C. §§ 718.80 TO 718.95.
   (A)   The village hereby adopts and incorporates herein by reference R.C. §§
718.80 to 718.95 for tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2018.
   (B)   A taxpayer, as defined in division (C) of this section, may elect to
be subject to R.C. §§ 718.80 to 717.95 in lieu of the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   TAXPAYER has the same meaning as in R.C. § 718.01, except that
TAXPAYER does not include natural persons or entities subject to the tax
imposed under R.C. Chapter 5745. TAXPAYER may include receivers, assignees or
trustees in bankruptcy when such persons are required to assume the role of a
taxpayer.
(Ord. 2018-020, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 38.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates §§
38.04,
38.16(A), or
38.17 by failing to remit village income taxes deducted and withheld from an
employee, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for a term of up to
six months, or both. If the individual that commits the violation is an
employee, or official, of the village, the individual is subject to discharge
from employment or dismissal from office.
   (B)   Any person who discloses information received from the Internal
Revenue Service in violation of §
38.16(A) shall be guilty of a felony of the fifth degree and shall be subject
to a fine of not more than $5,000 plus the costs of prosecution, or
imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years, or both. If the individual
that commits the violation is an employee, or official, of the village, the
individual is subject to discharge from employment or dismissal from office.
   (C)   Each instance of access or disclosure in violation of §
38.16(A) constitutes a separate offense.
   (D)   If not otherwise specified herein, no person shall:
      (1)   Fail, neglect, or refuse to make any return or declaration required
by this chapter;
      (2)   File any incomplete or false return;
      (3)   Fail, neglect, or refuse to pay the tax, penalties, or interest
imposed by this chapter;
      (4)   Refuse to permit the Tax Administrator or any duly authorized agent
or employee to examine his or her books, records, papers, and federal and state
income tax returns relating to the income or net profits of a taxpayer;
      (5)   Fail to appear before the Tax Administrator and to produce his or
her books, records, papers, or federal and state income tax returns relating to
the income or net profits of a taxpayer upon order or subpoena of the Tax
Administrator;
      (6)   Refuse to disclose to the Tax Administrator any information with
respect to the income or net profits of a taxpayer;
      (7)   Fail to comply with the provisions of this chapter or any order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator authorized hereby;
      (8)   Give to an employer false information as to his or her true name,
correct Social Security number, and residence address, or fail to promptly
notify an employer of any change in residence address and date thereof; and/or
      (9)   Attempt to do anything whatsoever to avoid the payment of the whole
or any part of the tax, penalties, or interest imposed by this chapter.
   (E)   Any person who violates any of the provisions in division (D) of this
section shall be subject to the penalties provided for in division (A) of this
section.
(Ord. 2015-032, passed 9-21-2015)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES RULES AND REGULATIONS
      
51.   BACKFLOW PREVENTION AND CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
      
52.   SEWER USE REGULATIONS
      
53.   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES RULES AND REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Definitions
   
50.002   Authority
   
50.003   Ownership and control
   
50.004   Effective date
   
50.005   Enforcement
   
50.006   Violations
   
50.007   Jurisdiction
   
50.008   Agreement
   
50.009   Personnel
   
50.010   Termination and reinstatement of service
   
50.011   Disconnection for late payment
Water System
   
50.025   General regulations
   
50.026   Water meters
   
50.027   Fire service
   
50.028   Maintenance and repair
   
50.029   Tampering with the system
   
50.030   Guarantee of supply
   
50.031   Guarantee of service
   
50.032   Bulk water sales hauling services
   
50.033   Public water supplier system capacity charges and usage fees
Sanitary Sewer System
   
50.045   General regulations
   
50.046   Prohibited wastes
   
50.047   Accidental discharge
   
50.048   Maintenance and repair
   
50.049   Tampering with sewerage system
   
50.050   Guarantee of service
   
50.051   Disposal of septic tank and holding tank wastes
   
50.052   Sewage use meters
Trash Collection and Disposal Services
   
50.065   Trash containers
   
50.066   Trash collection and disposal
Water and Sanitary Sewer Connections, Permits, and Procedures
   
50.080   General regulations
   
50.081   Permits required
   
50.082   Permit issuance
   
50.083   Connection procedures
   
50.084   Construction generally
   
50.085   Building sewer construction
   
50.086   Water service lateral construction
   
50.087   Inspection
   
50.088   Covey Water Main connection requirements
Billing Methods and Procedures
   
50.100   Water service charges
   
50.101   Sewer service charges
   
50.102   Trash collection and disposal charges
   
50.103   Owner’s responsibility
   
50.104   Billing periods
   
50.105   Billing and payment
   
50.106   Adjustments
   
50.107   Closed/inactive water accounts
Schedule of Charges and Rates
   
50.120   Utility service rates generally
   
50.121   Water rates
   
50.122   Sewer rates
   
50.123   Water and sewer connection fees
   
50.124   Trash collection and disposal service rates
Connections and Other Charges
   
50.140   Connections to water supply and sanitary sewer systems
   
50.141   Connection charge
   
50.142   Non-participant water charges - public construction and private
construction
   
50.143   Non-participant sanitary sewer charges - private construction
   
50.144   System capacity charges - sanitary sewer
   
50.145   Capacity charges - sanitary sewer
   
50.146   Supplemental sanitary sewer connection charges
   
50.147   Tapping fee
   
50.148   Water tower fee
Additions and Extensions of Water and Sewerage Systems
   
50.165   General regulations
   
50.166   Private construction of water and sewerage systems
   
50.167   Oversizing
 
   
50.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Backflow prevention and cross-connection control, see
Ch. 51
   Sewer use regulations, see
Ch. 52
   Subdivision regulations
      Drainage, see §
152.072
      Generally, see
Ch. 152
      Private utilities, see §
152.082
      Sewers, see §§
152.071 and
152.079
      Water, see §§
152.070 and
152.079
      Wells, protection of, see §
152.083
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. An Ohio EPA approved device to prevent
introduction of contaminated water into the village’s water supply system in
accordance with the backflow prevention and cross-connection control ordinance
of the village (see
Chapter 51 of these codified ordinances).
   BUILDING SEWER. The part of the sanitary sewer which connects the plumbing
of the house or building to the village sewer.
   BUILDING SUPERVISOR. The billing supervisor of the village’s Utilities
Department.
   COMPATIBLE WASTES. Wastewater that conforms to the characteristics of
acceptable wastewater as set forth in the sewer use ordinance of the village
(see
Chapter 52 of these codified ordinances).
   CONNECTION CHARGE. The statutory fee charged, pursuant to R.C. §§ 727.01 and
729.06, for the privilege of connecting to the utility systems of the village.
Such a connection shall not be permitted until such charge has been paid in
full.
   CONSUMERS. All customers and users of the water supply system or sewerage
system, or trash collection service.
   DEPARTMENT. The Village of Waynesville Utilities Department.
   DISTRICT. Utility service area of the village.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the owner of land to the village for a specified use of
land for the installation and maintenance of sanitary sewers and/or water mains
for an indefinite period of time or as dedicated for public right-of-way.
   FOUNDATION DRAINS. Subsurface drains laid around the foundation of a
building, either within or outside of the building foundation for the purpose
of carrying ground or subsurface water to some point of disposal.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food,
and from the handling, storage, and scale of food products.
   INCOMPATIBLE WASTE. Any waste which is not a compatible waste.
   INSPECTOR. A duly appointed representative of the Utilities Department who
is responsible for the enforcement of the specifications and quality of
construction.
   MAINTENANCE COST. Those costs, including labor, materials, supplies,
equipment, accessories, and appurtenances required to maintain the capacity and
performance during the service life of the sewerage system and/or water supply
system for which such facilities were designed and constructed.
   NON-PARTICIPANT (PRIVATE CONSTRUCTION). The fee, representing a pro-rated
share of original cost, charged upon connection to an existing water supply or
sanitary sewer system for any property not participating in the original cost
of water or sewer system for any property not participating in the original
cost of water or sewer improvements constructed pursuant to a private
construction reimbursement contract.
   NON-PARTICIPANT (PUBLIC CONSTRUCTION). The fee charged upon connection to an
existing water supply or sanitary sewer system for any property not included in
the original assessments of benefit or any property included in the calculation
of benefit but subdivided after the levy of assessments.
   NPDES PERMIT. The National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Permit as
issued by the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency.
   OPERATING COST. Those costs, including labor, materials, supplies,
equipment, accessories, and appurtenances required to operate the sewerage
system and/or water supply system at the level of performance for which such
facilities were designed and constructed.
   PERMIT. Evidence of permission to connect to the water supply or sewerage
system.
   REPLACEMENT COST. The aggregate cost of obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of
the sewerage system and/or water supply system to maintain the capacity and
performance for which such facilities were designed and constructed. The term
“operation and maintenance” includes replacement.
   RESIDENCE. A building or house constructed on any lot, parcel of land, or
premises and used primarily for dwelling purposes.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and/or water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions and to
which storm, surface, and ground water are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWER USE ORDINANCE. The sewer use ordinance of the village (see
Chapter 52 of these codified ordinances).
   SPECIFICATIONS. The construction and material requirements adopted by the
subdivision regulations of the village, as adopted by Ordinance 96-106, as from
time to time amended and modified (see
Chapter 152 of these codified ordinances).
   STORM SEWER. A sewer or drain which carries or disposes of storm and surface
waters and drainage, but excludes sanitary sewage and industrial wastes.
   TAPPING CHARGE. A charge for the cost of labor and materials required to tap
a water or sewer main and extend a service line from the main to the easement
area, including the curb stop, corporation stop, meter pit and meter setter,
and sanitary sewer riser pipe.
   USER. Any person, firm, group, or corporation that contributes, causes, or
permits the discharge of sanitary sewage into the sewerage system; any person
that receives water service directly or indirectly from the village water
system.
   USER CHARGE (SERVICE CHARGE). That amount paid by each consumer connected to
village utility systems proportionate to the service provided. This charge
shall cover all operation, maintenance, and replacement costs for the
facilities.
   VILLAGE ENGINEER. The Engineer of the village, or a duly authorized
representative.
   VILLAGE MANAGER. The Village Manager of the village, or a duly authorized
representative.
   WATER AND SEWER DEPARTMENT. The Village Utilities Department.
   WATER SERVICE LATERAL. That part of the water system which connects the
plumbing of a house or building to the water meter.
   WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. Any or all sources of water supply, pumping equipment,
treatment plants, distribution mains, reservoirs, tanks, other equipment and
land, rights-of-way, and easements necessary for the proper development and
distribution of the supply.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 50.002 AUTHORITY.
   The provisions of R.C. §§ 727.01 and 729.06 enable the Village Council to
adopt rules and regulations governing policies essential to the operation of
the Utilities Department.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 50.003 OWNERSHIP AND CONTROL.
   The water supply and sewerage systems of the village, including all
appurtenances, are under the operation and control of the village and its
authorized agents and employees. Such authority shall include control of all
phases and fixtures of the systems to the ultimate point of metered consumption
or from the point of usage.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 50.004 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   These rules and regulations shall be effective on the date of adoption of
this chapter (Ordinance 97-104) by the Village Council. Amendments hereto shall
be effective on and from the date of passage by the Village Council of
legislation adopting the same. Henceforth, any other rules and/or regulations
previously adopted by the village that conflict with these provisions shall be
deemed to be replaced and/or declared void.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 50.005 ENFORCEMENT.
   These rules and regulations shall be enforced by the Village Manager or the
Manager’s duly designated representatives, as directed by and in accordance
with the Village Charter.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 50.006 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall constitute a violation of these rules and regulations for any
person, firm, group, or corporation, either owner or agent, to tamper with or
attempt to use facilities provided by the village without first obtaining the
necessary permits and approvals. Any person, firm, group, or corporation,
either owner or agent, that knowingly makes any false statements,
representations, or certification in any application, record, report, plan, or
other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to these rules and
regulations in order to deceive the village shall be held in violation of this
section and subject to prosecution. Any infraction of the rules and regulations
shall also constitute a violation hereof.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.007 JURISDICTION.
   These rules and regulations shall be made applicable to all persons within
the sewer districts and water districts as established and amended by the
Village Council and to any other persons receiving utility services from
systems operated by the village, or trash service as provided by contract.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 50.008 AGREEMENT.
   All persons, their successors and assigns, obtaining a permit from the
Utilities Department accept and agree to be bound by these rules and
regulations.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 50.009 PERSONNEL.
   Employees of the Utilities Department whose duties require entrance upon
private property or into private premises shall be equipped with proper
credentials as the village may deem necessary to identify them as agents of the
village. Such authorized employees shall have access to the premises, at
reasonable hours, to examine fixtures, record water consumption, and
investigate the manner of water usage and/or the quality of wastes generated
and discharged to the sanitary sewer. Should access for the purposes outlined
above be denied any employee, water and/or sewerage services shall be
discontinued and not restored until such time as access is granted.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 50.010 TERMINATION AND REINSTATEMENT OF SERVICE.
   (A)   By request to the village, any consumer may have water service
temporarily or permanently discontinued. The water meter will be removed or the
service will be shut off and a final reading will be obtained. Should it not be
possible to obtain a final reading, a closing statement will be prepared by the
utility billing supervisor on the basis of previous usage, pro-rated for the
time elapsed since the last reading. Under no circumstances shall the closing
statement be less than the minimum charge pro-rated for the usage period. When
service is re-established, a turn-on charge will be levied as specified in §§
50.120 through
50.124.
   (B)   If a problem occurs on the property owner’s side of the meter, water
service may be temporarily discontinued until the necessary repairs have been
completed. In such cases, the meter valve will be shut off by personnel of the
village at the request of the consumer. The charge for such service is
specified in §§
50.120 through
50.124.
   (C)   The water service will be turned off and discontinued for nonpayment
of water or sanitary sewer or trash collection and disposal service charges.
Water service will be re-established only after payment in full of all
delinquent charges for water, sanitary sewer, and trash collection and disposal
service, including penalties and turn-on charges.
   (D)   Any violation of the provisions of these rules and regulations shall
be cause for having water service discontinued. Water service will be
reinstated only after the correction of the violation and the payment in full
of all charges and penalties.
   (E)   If it is necessary to turn off the water service at the corporation
stop, the turn-on charge shall cover all expenses incurred and shall be in
addition to the fee specified in §§
50.120 through
50.124.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.011 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the village to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The village’s form for application
for utility service shall contain, in addition to the title, address, and
telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly visible and
easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill;
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be delivered containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid
within five business days of the date of the second bill, service will be
discontinued for nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the
Village Manager. This official shall be authorized to order that the customer’s
service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a final
determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the village to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all charges more than 30 days past due have been paid, along with a turn-
off and turn-on charge to be established by the Village Council.
WATER SYSTEM
§ 50.025 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No physical connection shall be maintained between any source of water
or liquid and the village water supply system. No spigot or outlet shall be
physically connected to a drain or sewer.
   (B)   A separate and individual water service lateral shall be provided to
each single-family unit or commercial building, with each such service lateral
being metered. No lateral shall serve more than one building unless specific
authority is given by the Utilities Department.
   (C)   (1)   A backflow prevention device must be installed on all water
service laterals by the property owner immediately upon entry to the structure
to be served, prior to any point of connection or usage. The following devices
shall be required:
         (a)   For residential dwelling units (three-family or less), double
check valve complying with A.S.S.E. No. 1024 must be provided (Watts Regulator
Company Model No. 7 or equal); and
         (b)   For all other users, a reduced pressure principle pressure
reducing valve (triple check valve) complying with A.S.S.E. No. 1013 must be
provided (Watts Regulator Company Model No. 909 or equal).
      (2)   Backflow devices meeting A.S.S.E. Standard 1013 must be tested at
the time of installation and at least once every 12 months thereafter by a
person certified by the state’s Department of Health or other recognized agency
in the use of the proper testing equipment designed for this purpose. In
accordance with accepted engineering practices, backflow preventer meeting
A.S.S.E. Standard 1013 must be completely rebuilt every five years.
      (3)   Backflow prevention and cross-connection control rules and
regulations as set forth in the backflow prevention and cross-connection
control ordinance of the village (see
Chapter 51 of these codified ordinances) are incorporated into these rules and
regulations.
   (D)   Electrical grounding of D/C sources shall not be permitted on the
water supply system or any private extension thereof.
   (E)   The village will perform all maintenance on the public water supply
system, including the water service lateral from the water main to the meter
pit or curb stop. The installation and maintenance of the water service lateral
from the meter to the structure to be served is the property owner’s
responsibility.
   (F)   The village shall levy a charge for any service requiring a special
call to a property. All current fees and charges for the various services
performed are outlined in §§
50.120 through
50.124. These charges and fees are subject to amendment by the village and are
not to be construed as being fixed for an indefinite period of time.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to sell, or otherwise furnish to
another, water obtained from the village, except persons specifically permitted
to do so by the Water and Sewer Department.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.026 WATER METERS.
   (A)   A separate and individual water service lateral shall be provided to
each building and each such lateral shall be metered. The meter pit for each
housing, business, or commercial unit shall be installed at a location
acceptable to the Water and Sewer Department. The consumer shall be responsible
for all water usage recorded by such meter.
   (B)   Water meters shall be furnished to consumers by the village upon
payment of the necessary fees and charges as listed in the ordinance for fees
and rates and upon compliance with the applicable provisions of §§
50.010 and
50.080 through
50.087.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to keep the meter
pit at grade with the ground surface and accessible at all times. Failure to
comply with this requirements shall be cause for discontinuance of water
service until such time as compliance is effected. The property owner shall
conform to any written instructions from the village as to the grade of his or
her meter pit and the village shall be indemnified against any damages or
expenses occasioned it by reason of the meter pit being above or below grade.
The cost of any repairs made necessary by negligence or abuse on the part of
the property owner shall be charged to the owner.
   (D)   Each water service lateral two inches in diameter or larger shall be
provided with a meter by- pass. The by-pass must be valved so that it can be
sealed to prevent its use by anyone except village personnel. Valves must be
provided before and after the meter so that the meter may be isolated and
maintained without water loss.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.027 FIRE SERVICE.
   (A)   Except in the case of emergencies, no person, except an authorized
agent of a fire department or the village, shall use any fire hydrant or any
part thereof, or take any water from a hydrant for any purpose without the
applicable permit from the village.
   (B)   If a fire hydrant is damaged by any person, that person shall be
responsible for all costs and expenses incurred by the village in making the
necessary repairs and corrections.
   (C)   No private fire hydrant shall be set without the inspection and
approval of the village.
   (D)   Private fire service inside buildings shall be equipped with approved
meters. Construction of a private interior fire service cannot proceed until
plans therefor have been filed with the village and written permission for
construction thereof received.
   (E)   Each housing, business, or commercial unit having privately owned and
maintained fire service mains and hydrants shall be charged an “availability
fee” for such service as specified in §§
50.120 through
50.124.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.028 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
   (A)   The village shall have the right to shut off water service for
repairs, extensions, tests, improvements, or whenever necessary. Whenever
possible and as time permits, all consumers will be notified prior to the
interruption of service.
   (B)   The village shall maintain all water mains in dedicated public
easements or rights-of-way. Water mains that do not lie within public easements
or dedicated rights-of-way shall be maintained by the property owner and, in
the event of problems, service shall be discontinued until repairs have been
completed to the satisfaction of the village.
   (C)   A break or leak occurring in any water service lateral between the
water main and the meter pit shall be repaired as soon as possible by the
village at its own expense. The owner will be required to pay all costs of
repair to the water service lateral from the meter pit to the structure.
   (D)   The village shall not be responsible for breakage of pipes of valves
occurring during the removal or installation of meters.
   (E)   Damage to any equipment or facilities of the water supply system
resulting from an improper connection within a structure shall be the
responsibility of the consumer and the cost of repair thereof shall be charged
to the owner.
   (F)   If a water service lateral from the water main to a meter pit is
severed, the contractor shall be responsible for all costs associated with the
repair or installation of a new water service lateral, the water lost, and the
expenses incurred by the village as a result of the damaged lateral.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.029 TAMPERING WITH THE SYSTEM.
   (A)   No person other than an authorized agent of the village may connect to
any portion of the water supply system, tamper with or remove any meter, seal,
or parts thereof, or insert a meter by-pass without permission of the village.
Any of the above shall constitute a tampering violation. Whoever violates this
prohibition shall be punished as provided in §
50.999, and such violation shall also constitute due cause for discontinuance
of water service.
   (B)   If the village finds that a meter seal has been broken, a connection
installation ahead of the meter, or any by-pass inserted, or there is evidence
that the meter has been tampered with, the water will be shut off and will not
be turned on again until the consumer or owner of the premises pays for the
estimated quantity of water which has been used and not registered and, in
addition, pays a fee for turning on the water. The criminal laws of the state
provide severe penalties for tampering with water meters, meter seals, valves,
and other devices in the water supply system. The penalties herein provided are
in addition to the penalties provided by the criminal laws of the state, and
the payment of penalties herein mentioned will not in any way relieve any
person from prosecution.
   (C)   No person shall unlawfully secure a supply of water through a
corporation stop, valve, or other device after it has been closed due to the
violation of any of these rules and regulations, without first having secured
the necessary permit from the village.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.030 GUARANTEE OF SUPPLY.
   (A)   The village does not guarantee a continuous supply or fixed pressure
of water but will, in the case of interruption of service, endeavor to notify
affected consumers.
   (B)   Persons or entities maintaining operations dependent upon a continuous
supply or fixed pressure of water should maintain a sufficient storage of water
to operate for a reasonable length of time.
   (C)   In case of a serious fire or water shortage, or when for any cause it
is necessary to conserve the water supply by limiting the use thereof, such an
order shall be obeyed by all consumers of water affected by such order. The
village shall not be responsible for any damages resulting from any such
limited use.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.031 GUARANTEE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Temporary shutdowns of the water supply by the village may be
necessary for improvements or repairs. Whenever possible, and as time permits,
all consumers will be notified prior to the interruption. Should an
interruption occur, every reasonable effort will be made to restore service
within a reasonable length of time.
   (B)   The village expressly disclaims any responsibility or liability for
damages caused by, or arising from, any interruption of water service.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 50.032 BULK WATER SALES HAULING SERVICES.
   (A)   All bulk water sales hauling services acquiring bulk water from the
village shall hereafter make application to the village, in the prescribed
application form, for bulk water sales from the village.
   (B)   The bulk water hauler deposit shall be as set forth in the village’s
schedule of fees as adopted by reference in §
36.05.
(Ord. 95-120, passed 4-3-1995; Ord. 95-190, passed 12-4-1995; Ord. 96-175,
passed 11-18-1996; Ord. 97-168, passed 11-17-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.033 PUBLIC WATER SUPPLIER SYSTEM CAPACITY CHARGES AND USAGE FEES.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to provide rules and fee structures
for the village to supply water to public water suppliers for a period of 30
days or more, and not for emergency water connections.
      (2)   The pubic water supplier will use the water provided by the village
only for the purpose of supplying water to the supplier's customers and not to
any other public water supplier.
      (3)   Definitions.
         DAILY OVER-USE CHARGE (DO-UC). A financial penalty for exceeding the
maximum daily usage that the village charges the public water supplier.
         DESIRED WATER SERVICE END DATE. The last day the public water supplier
receives water from the village.
         DESIRED WATER SERVICE START DATE. The first day the public water
supplier receives water from the Village.
         KGAL. One thousand gallons of water.
         MAXIMUM DAILY USAGE (MDU). The maximum volume of water, in Kgal, that
the village will supply to the public water supplier in a 24-hour day
(beginning at 12:00:01 a.m.) without financial penalty.
         MAXIMUM MONTHLY USAGE (MMU). The maximum volume of water, in Kgal,
that the village will supply to the public water supplier in a 30-day month,
without financial penalty. (Note: for a 31-day month, the MMU is 1.033 x the
30-day MMU. For a 28-day month the MMU is 0.933 x the 30-day MMU. For a 29-day
month the MMU is 0.967 x the 30-day MMU. This must not exceed the MWR by more
than 5%.
         MONTHLY OVER-USE CHARGE (MO-UC). A financial penalty for exceeding the
maximum monthly usage that the village charges the public water supplier.
         MONTHLY WATER RESERVED (MWR). The volume of water that the village
will reserve for the public water supplier in one 30-day calendar month.
         PUBLIC WATER SUPPLIER (PWS). A person who owns or operates a "public
water system" as defined in OAC 3745-81-021, that is also a "water works
company" as defined in R.C. § 4905.03(A)(8), that is subject to the
jurisdiction of the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio or owned by a political
subdivision.
         RESERVED CAPACITY SYSTEM CHARGE (RCSC). A monetary charge to the
public water supplier, payable to the Village of Waynesville, for the total
water reserved.
         TOTAL WATER RESERVED (TWR). The total volume of water (in Kgal) that
is reserved by the village for the public water supplier. It is the product of
the water reserve period and the monthly water reserved: TWR = WRP * MWR.
         VILLAGE. Village of Waynesville.
         WATER RESERVE CHARGE (WRC). The rate, in units of dollars/Kgal, the
village charges for each Kgal of water reserved.
         WATER RESERVE PERIOD (WRP). The number of consecutive months the
village reserves a supply of water for the public water supplier. The water
reserve period is calculated as the total number of consecutive months that
contains the desired water service start and end dates. This period cannot
exceed 365 days without additional authorization of Council.
   (B)   Fees. The public water supplier shall pay two fees to the village for
the water supplied: A reserved capacity system charge and a monthly usage
charge.
      (1)   Reserved capacity system charge. The reserved capacity system
charge for a public water supplier shall be based on the number of Kgal of
water the village reserves for the public water supplier. This charge is
payable for each water reserve period.
         (a)   The reserved capacity system charge shall be the multiplicative
product of: (1) total water reserved, and (2) water reserve charge (found in
the current Village Schedule of Fees and Charges).
            RCSC = TWR * WRC
         (b)   The reserved capacity system charge must be paid to the village
at least 30 days before service begins for the water reserve period.
         (c)   The public water supplier shall submit to the village a water
reservation and usage application at least 90 days prior to the start date of
water service.
         (d)   The water reservation and usage application shall contain the
following information.
            1.   Submission date;
            2.   Desired water service start date;
            3.   Desired water service end date;
            4.   Total Kgal of water to reserve each month (monthly water
reserved);
            5.   Maximum daily usage; and
            6.   Maximum monthly usage.
         (e)   The monthly water reserved is determined by one of the
following:
            1.   If the public water supplier has a documented water usage with
the village, or another supplier, for at least 12 consecutive months in the
preceding 24 months, the monthly water reserved is the highest monthly volume
used in the 12 month period; or
            2.   If no prior usage data are available, the monthly water
reserved is calculated by multiplying the maximum daily use by 30.
         (f)   The maximum daily usage is provided by the public water supplier
in the water reservation and usage application and should be a volume of water
that is not expected to be exceeded on any day during the water reserve period.
It cannot be greater than the village daily maximum water reserve (VDMWR)
listed in the current Village Schedule of Fees and Charges.
         (g)   The maximum monthly usage is provided by the public water
supplier in the water reservation and usage application and should be a volume
of water that is not expected to be exceeded in any month during the water
reserve period. It cannot be greater than the monthly water reserve + 5%. It
also cannot be greater than the village monthly maximum water reserve (VMMWR)
listed in the current Village Schedule of Fees and Charges.
         (h)   The water reservation and usage application must be signed by an
official of the public water supplier agency that has the legal authority to
commit the agency to financial expenditures. Written authorization from the
Board of Directors or legislative authority of the public works supplier shall
be furnished to the village prior to any water usage.
         (i)   The water reservation and usage application must be submitted to
the Waynesville Village Manager.
         (j)   All water reservation and usage applications must be approved by
a simple majority of Council.
         (k)   The requesting agency will be notified of acceptance of the
water reservation and usage application within 14 calendar days. If the
application is not accepted, the Village Manager will return the application to
the submitter with explanations as to why it was rejected.
      (2)   Monthly usage charge. The monthly usage charge for a public water
supplier shall be based on the number of gallons of water that the public water
supplier uses in a calendar month. The monthly usage charge shall be the rate
for inside the village in effect at the time of usage. The number of gallons
used will be determined by reading the meter(s) that monitor the total flow of
water to the public water supplier. All payment rules for the monthly usage
charge will be the same as for the village residents (due dates, late fees,
etc.). In a month of over-usage the monthly usage charge will be assessed on
the maximum monthly reserve volume.
   (C)   Guarantee of water. The public water supplier acknowledges that the
village has a finite water supply. The reservation of capacity does not
guarantee that the amount of water reserved will be available at all times. A
public water supplier is subject to all applicable rules of the village, and
has the same rights and interests in village water as other user classes. There
is no guarantee that any water reservation granted will be renewed, extended or
increased.
   (D)   Over-usage penalties.
      (1)   Exceeding the maximum daily usage. If the public water supplier
exceeds the maximum daily usage in a 24-hour day (beginning at 12:01 a.m.), a
penalty will be assessed for that day. The penalty shall be the daily over-use
charge (DO-UC), which is calculated as follows:
         DO-UC = 3 * Village Inside Water Rate * (# Actual Kgal used in the day
- MDU)
      (2)   Exceeding the maximum monthly usage. If the public water supplier
exceeds the maximum monthly usage in a calendar month (beginning at 12:01 a.m.
on the first day of the month), a penalty will be assessed for that month. The
penalty shall be the monthly over-use charge (MO-UC), which is calculated as
follows:
         MO-UC = 2.2 * WRC * (# Actual Kgal used - MMU)
      (3)   Exceeding the maximum daily usage for two consecutive days. If the
public water supplier exceeds the maximum daily usage for two consecutive days,
the public water supplier will be contacted by the Waynesville Village Manager.
Within 15 hours of being contacted, the public water supplier must provide to
the Waynesville Village Manager a corrective usage plan of steps to be taken
that will reduce the water usage to less than the daily usage maximum. These
steps must begin within 24 hours after contacting the Waynesville Village
Manager.
      (4)   Exceeding the maximum monthly usage for two consecutive months. If
the public water supplier exceeds the maximum monthly usage for two consecutive
months, the public water supplier will be contacted by the Waynesville Village
Manager. Within three days of being contacted, the public water supplier must
provide to the Waynesville Village Manager a corrective usage plan of steps to
be taken that will reduce the water usage in the current month to less than the
maximum monthly usage. If the maximum monthly usage is exceeded a third time
during the agreement period, the reserve capacity system charge shall be
recalculated for the entire period using the highest monthly usage that has
occurred during the period as the monthly water reserved, and the difference
between the original and new reserve capacity system charges shall be paid to
the village within 30 days.
      (5)   If the corrective usage plans listed in divisions (3) and (4) of
this section do not fix the over-usage conditions, the public water supplier
agrees to pay for all costs incurred by the village to provide the over-usage
water. Additionally, if the PWS continues to exceed maximum daily and/or
monthly usage maximums after the first implementation of corrective usage
plans, the village reserves the right to terminate water supply after 30 days
of notice, and this agreement will terminate.
   (E)   Water meters. The public water supplier will pay for the water meter
(s), associated hardware and software, installation costs, and any other costs
related to providing the meter(s) necessary to monitor water supplied by the
village to the public water supplier. If the public water supplier chooses to
take possession of the water meter(s) when usage terminates, all costs
associated with removing the meter(s) and restoring the village infrastructure
will be paid by the public water supplier. All work to install or uninstall the
meter(s) and hardware will be done by the village or its contractor. The
village must approve the manufacturer, model, and type of meter(s) that will be
installed, as well as any hardware needed for the installation.
(Ord. 2018-052, passed 12-17-2018)
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
§ 50.045 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No individual sewage disposal system shall be used on a property to
which a public sewerage system is available and accessible. When a sewerage
system is made available and accessible, any sewage disposal system on such
property shall be abandoned within 90 days following the completion of the
discharge directly from the building to the sewer. The connection shall be
ordered by the village and be in accordance with the Ohio EPA and County Health
Department guidelines. Any such abandoned individual sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned and filled in accordance with applicable requirements of the
Ohio Sanitary Code and the County Health Department.
   (B)   Connections to a sanitary sewer shall only be permitted where it can
be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Building Supervisor as designated by
the Village Manager that the downstream sewerage system has sufficient reserve
capacity to adequately and efficiently handle the additional anticipated
sanitary sewage load.
   (C)   All water-borne wastes from toilets, lavatories, bathtubs, showers,
laundry tubs, washing machines, refrigeration drips, sinks, basement and garage
floor drains (with the use of grease traps), and the like shall be discharged
into the sewerage system. Any other wastes will be permitted only upon written
authorization from the Village Engineer.
   (D)   No downspout, surface inlets, foundation drains, subsurface drains or
any other source of ground or surface water shall be connected, either directly
or indirectly, to any sanitary sewer. Such drains, inlets, and downspout shall
be so constructed as to drain or be pumped into the gutter, ditch, or storm
sewer.
   (E)   All costs and expenses associated with the installation of the
building sewer shall be borne fully by the property owner. The owner shall
indemnify the village against any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly result from the installation of the building sewer.
   (F)   A list of all current charges and fees for the various sewer services
performed are specified in §§
50.080 through
50.087.
   (G)   The character and condition of all wastes shall conform to the
provisions of the sewer use ordinance of the village (see
Chapter 52 of these codified ordinances), which is incorporated into these
rules and regulations.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.046 PROHIBITED WASTES.
   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged directly or indirectly,
any substances, materials, waters, or wastes into the sanitary sewer which can
harm either the sanitary sewers, waste water treatment process or equipment,
have an adverse effect on the receiving stream or can otherwise endanger life,
health, public property, constitute a nuisance, or that do not conform to the
sewer use ordinance of the village (see
Chapter 52 of these codified ordinances).
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.047 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Each user shall provide protection from the accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other substances regulated by these rules and
regulations, with such facilities being provided and maintained by the user at
his or her expense. Detailed plans showing the proposed facilities and
outlining the operation procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the village for review and approval prior to the initiation of
construction. In the case of an accidental discharge, it is the responsibility
of the user to immediately notify the village by telephone of the incident. The
notification shall include location of the discharge, type of waste,
concentration and volume, and corrective action taken.
   (B)   Within five days following any accidental discharge, the user shall
submit to the Village Engineer a detailed written report describing the cause
of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent similar
future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the sewerage system, fish kills, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall any notification relieve the user of any fines, civil
penalties, or other liability which may be imposed.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.048 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
   (A)   Temporary interruptions of sanitary sewer service by the village may
be necessary for improvements or repairs. Whenever possible, and as time
permits, all consumers will be notified prior to such interruption.
   (B)   The village shall maintain all sanitary sewers in dedicated public
easements or rights-of-way. Sanitary sewers that do not lie within public
easements or dedicated rights-of-way shall be maintained by the property
owners, and in the event of problems, service shall be discontinued until
repairs have been completed to the satisfaction of the village.
   (C)   The village will perform all maintenance of the public sanitary sewer.
The property owner will be held responsible for the maintenance of the building
sewer. The village may require the property owner to make any repairs to, or
perform any maintenance on, the building functioning of the sewerage system. If
the village is called upon or finds it necessary to repair or maintain any
building sewer, the cost of such repair or maintenance shall be billed directly
to the property owner.
   (D)   The village expressly disclaims any responsibility for damages caused
by, or arising from, any stoppage within the sewerage system.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 50.049 TAMPERING WITH SEWERAGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   No person, other than an authorized agent of the village, shall
attempt to make any type of connection to a sanitary sewer without permission
of the village. Whoever violates this prohibition shall be punished as provided
in §
50.999, and such violation shall also constitute due cause for discontinuance
of sanitary sewer service.
   (B)   No act shall be permitted that would hamper or restrict in any way the
normal function of the sewerage system.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.050 GUARANTEE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Temporary interruptions of sanitary sewer service by the village may
be necessary for improvements or repairs. Wherever possible, and as time
permits, all consumers will be notified prior to the interruption. Should an
interruption occur, every reasonable effort will be made to restore service
within a reasonable length of time.
   (B)   The village expressly disclaims any responsibility or liability for
damages caused by, or arising from, any interruption of sanitary sewer service.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 50.051 DISPOSAL OF SEPTIC TANK AND HOLDING TANK WASTES.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall discharge septic tank or holding tank
wastes into any manhole or other appurtenance of any sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.052 SEWAGE USE METERS.
   (A)   Consumers who use large amounts of water which is not discharged to
the sanitary sewer system may realize a savings in sewer user charges by having
a separate meter to measure such sewerage usage. This meter must be installed
pursuant to the specifications and requirements of the village and the consumer
must bear the full costs of the installation, operation, maintenance, repair,
and annual calibration of such a meter.
   (B)   If the meter becomes inoperable or fails to measure accurately,
sanitary sewer charges shall be based upon the amount of water usage measured
by the water meter until the sewage meter has been repaired and is operating
properly and measuring accurately.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997)
TRASH COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL SERVICES
§ 50.065 TRASH CONTAINERS.
   Every occupant of a structure or part thereof shall dispose of all rubbish
in a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in an adequate container. Those
customers receiving trash service provided by the village by contract shall use
only the containers as specified in the contract and approved by the village.
Each structure shall be provided a separate container(s).
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.066 TRASH COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL.
   (A)   The village provides for trash collection and disposal for village
residents by contract. Trash collection and disposal shall be in accordance
with the provisions of the contract.
   (B)   All persons, their successors and assigns, availing themselves of
trash collection and disposal services provided by the village by contract
agree to be bound by the provisions of the contract.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997)
WATER AND SANITARY SEWER CONNECTIONS, PERMITS, AND PROCEDURES
§ 50.080 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A separate and individual water service lateral shall be provided to
each single-family unit or commercial building.
   (B)   A separate and individual building sewer shall be provided to each
single-family unit or commercial building.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation, restoration, and
connection of a water service lateral or building sewer shall be borne entirely
by the property owner. The owner shall indemnify the village from any loss or
damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the
building sewer or water service lateral.
   (D)   All construction must be performed by the property owner or a
registered contractor in accordance with the requirements and specifications of
the village.
   (E)   After payment of all applicable connection fees and charges, and in
compliance with all provisions of these rules, water and/or sanitary sewer
service may be initiated to property during the construction of the structure
to which service is to be provided. Upon completion of construction of the
structure and at the request of the contractor, the water and/or sanitary sewer
account shall be transferred/released from the builder/contractor to the
property owner only after a final inspection by Department personnel and
approval of the following:
      (1)   Inside: sump pump, foundation drains, plumbing alterations, roof
drains, and the like; and
      (2)   Outside: sump pump discharge, manholes, meter pit, valves, fire
hydrants, and the like.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.081 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No connection with any sanitary sewer or water main or repair,
removal, or excavation thereof shall be made without a permit from the village.
   (B)   A building sewer permit shall only be issued and a sanitary sewer
connection shall only be allowed if the downstream sewerage system has
sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently convey the additional
waste load to the wastewater treatment plant.
   (C)   Permits shall be kept and displayed at the construction site at all
times while work is in progress.
   (D)   The issuance by the village of a permit to tap into a sanitary sewer
or water main does not relieve the permit holder of the responsibility of
securing permits from the proper governing agencies for permission to perform
the work in public rights-of-way that are involved.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.082 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   A permit must be obtained by the property owner at the office of the
Utilities Department. A written application must be made for each permit and
each application shall contain the name and address of the property owner, the
name of the contractor, and the location of the property (street and address,
parcel, or subdivision and lot number).
      (1)   Outside structure. Prior to the initiation of construction of a
water service lateral and/or building sewer, or any repair, alteration, or
excavation thereof, a permit must be obtained.
      (2)   Within structure. Prior to the modification of the sanitary sewer
and/or water system within the structure, a permit must be issued by the County
Combined Health District. The Health District must be contacted regarding its
requirements and application procedures.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of a permit, certain fees and charges must be
paid by the property owner. These fees and charges are subject to amendment by
the village and are not to be construed as being fixed for an indefinite period
of time:
      (1)   A connection charge in an amount established by Village Council,
for the privilege of connecting to the water supply and/or sewerage systems.
(See §§
50.120 through
50.124.)
      (2)   A non-participant charge (public construction), if applicable, for
a connection to a water supply and/or sewerage system for properties not
included in the computation of assessment levied against improved properties
for the construction of the original system. (See §§
50.120 through
50.124.)
      (3)   A non-participant charge (private construction), if applicable, for
a connection to a water supply and/or sewerage system constructed pursuant to a
private construction reimbursement contract. (See §§
50.120 through
50.124 and §§
50.140 through
50.148.)
      (4)   A system capacity charge, if applicable, for a connection to a
water supply and/or sewerage system, or any extension thereof, for which
transmission/collection and treatment service are provided by another political
subdivision under written contract or agreement. (See §§
50.120 through
50.124 and §§
50.140 through
50.148.)
      (5)   A tapping fee, if applicable, representing the cost of tapping the
water or sewer main and installing a water or sewer service line from the main
to the easement area including the tap, corporation stop, curb stop, meter pit,
meter setter, and/or sanitary sewer riser.
      (6)   For water services, or metered sanitary sewer services, a meter
fee. (See §§
50.120 through
50.124.)
      (7)   A water tower fee, applicable to those areas included in the water
service agreement between the village and county, dated March 9, 1985, as
amended.
   (C)   Permits for building sewers and/or water service laterals within a
recorded section of a newly developed area will not be issued until:
      (1)   Construction of the sanitary sewers and water mains within the
development has been completed and approved by the village, and maintenance
bond posted;
      (2)   Verification of “as-built” locations, alignments, depths, and
verification of grades of all new public water and sanitary sewers has been
provided; and
      (3)   As-built reproducible drawings must be submitted within two months
of first connection being made to the water or sewerage systems within a
subdivision; together with data files on a magnetic disc in a format acceptable
to the Village Manager.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.083 CONNECTION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   No sanitary sewer connection will be made to a residential unit or
commercial building until the structure has been placed under roof (for
structures with basements or lower level excavation), the rough interior
plumbing has been approved and the village notified in writing as to such and
approval, and all sources of ground or subsurface water from the area of the
structure have been drained to an acceptable discharge point.
   (B)   No water taps will be permitted until the connection into the sanitary
sewer has been made, if sanitary sewer service is available.
   (C)   All construction must be performed by the property owner or a
qualified contractor in accordance with the requirements and specifications of
the village.
   (D)   All construction must be inspected by authorized inspectors of the
village. All construction outside the structure is inspected by the village;
all construction within the structure is inspected by the County Combined
Health District.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.084 CONSTRUCTION GENERALLY.
   (A)   All work shall be inspected and approved by an authorized inspector of
the village, at the expense of the applicant. Any work covered prior to the
inspection shall be uncovered by the contractor and an opportunity provided to
inspect the pipe.
   (B)   All material, pipe, bends, and equipment needed to properly install
the building sewer and/or water service lateral must be on the site prior to
the initiation of construction.
   (C)   Prior to initiating any work within any right-of-way, the contractor
shall obtain from the proper authority the required permit for the excavation
and shall comply with all the requirements of the issuing authority. This
permit shall be shown to the inspector at the commencement of construction.
   (D)   All excavations for building sewer and water service lateral
installations shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights to protect
the public from hazard.
   (E)   All construction must take place between 7:00 a.m. and 3:30 p.m.,
Monday through Friday. Construction performed on Saturday, Sunday, or holidays,
if permitted, will necessitate additional inspection fees pursuant to §§
50.120 through
50.124.
   (F)   The Village Engineer or his or her authorized agent shall approve the
quality of all materials and workmanship and shall have the right to inspect
the same at all times. Any inferior or defective material may be ordered from
the job and shall be cause for a portion of a water service lateral or building
sewer to be replaced and reinstalled.
   (G)   It shall be the property owner’s responsibility to properly situate,
with respect to location and elevation, any new structure to which sanitary
sewer service is to be provided by the village in order to ensure that the
service desired can be obtained.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.085 BUILDING SEWER CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   (1)   The building sewer for all structures other than detached
single-family residential units shall be constructed of a size not less than
six inches internal diameter, with a minimum slope of one-fourth inch per
lineal foot.
      (2)   A four-inch building sewer is permitted only of detached single-
family residential units subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   The building sewer from the street sewer to the right-of-way
must be six inches;
         (b)   The building sewer from the right-of-way to the structure may be
four inches; and
         (c)   Clean outs on four-inch laterals must be provided at all changes
in grade or alignment. The maximum span shall be 50 feet between clean outs.
   (B)   The building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade, and in the
straightest alignment possible. Prior to the installation, both ends of the
building sewer should be exposed and the elevations verified to establish
proper grade and to disclose any problems in elevation prior to installation.
Changes in direction shall be made only with properly curved pipe and fittings,
with all such fittings being less than 45 degrees with at least an 18-inch
separation maintained between fittings. The use of 90 degree bends shall not be
permitted.
   (C)   The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost.
   (D)   All material and workmanship shall be in strict accord with the
Specifications for Sanitary Sewers of the Water and Sewer Department.
   (E)   A minimum of four inches of well-compacted sand or gravel bedding must
be provided below the pipe to support it over its full length. If rock is
encountered, six inches of bedding must be provided. If the material at or
below the normal grade of the bottom of the pipeline is unsuitable for
foundation, it shall be removed to such depths and widths as the inspector may
direct and be replaced with gravel.
   (F)   The building sewer must be centered in a dry trench of minimum width.
The maximum allowable trench width is 30 inches. All excavation shall be kept
dry and free of water during installation.
   (G)   (1)   Hand backfill shall be placed and compacted around and over the
pipe in six-inch layers to one-foot above the top of the pipe. Sand or an
approved granular backfill material shall be required for this purpose.
      (2)   Material for hand backfill should under no circumstances be dumped
on the exposed pipe, but should be moved along the trench which then may then
be machine backfilled. Backfilled entering the trench must come upon previously
placed machine backfill. All excavation in paved areas shall be backfilled with
well-compacted sand and gravel, or in accordance with the requirements of the
road opening permit, if stricter.
   (H)   (1)   Approved adapters must be used to connect dissimilar pipe sizes
or materials between the building sewer and the sewer lateral provided as part
of the street improvements, and the building sewer and the house connection.
Only acceptable adapters are permitted and no building sewer shall be installed
with non-compatible materials. When a connection is made to a sewer lateral,
the cap or plug must be cut off and removed.
      (2)   The actual tapping of a connection into the sanitary sewer and the
connection at the house shall be performed only in the presence of an
inspector.
   (I)   The connection between the interior plumbing and the building sewer
shall be made at a point approximately five feet outside the foundation wall.
   (J)   A minimum of one clean out must be provided on the building sewer to
permit future maintenance by the property owner, with the maximum spacing
between clean outs being 100 feet and one clean out being provided near the
structure to be served.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.086 WATER SERVICE LATERAL CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The village shall perform all maintenance on the water service lateral
from the water main through the meter. The owner shall be responsible for the
maintenance and repair of the water service lateral from the meter pit to the
structure being served.
   (B)   A backflow prevention device must be installed on all water service
laterals by the property owner, immediately upon entry to the structure to be
served and prior to any connection or usage. The backflow prevention device
shall be in accordance with the requirements of the village (see
Chapter 51 of these codified ordinances).
   (C)   Within certain areas of the village, water system pressures are such
that pressure reducing valves must be used. In these areas, each customer shall
be provided a pressure reducing valve for installation by the property owner
within the structure to be served. It is the property owner’s responsibility to
maintain, repair, and replace the pressure reducing valves as necessary.
   (D)   All materials and workmanship shall be in strict accordance with the
“Water Service Details” requirements of the Water and Sewer Department of the
village.
      (1)   The water service lateral for all structures shall be constructed
with pipe of a size not less than three-fourths-inch internal diameter. The
property owner must determine the size of lateral required to serve the
property.
      (2)   The water service lateral from the water main to the curb stop or
meter pit (village maintained) shall be constructed with Type K copper tubing.
The water service lateral from the curb stop or meter pit to the structure
(customer maintained) may be Type K copper tubing or polyethylene tubing SDR 9,
200 p.s.i., CTS-OD.
      (3)   The depth of the water service lateral shall be sufficient to
afford protection from frost. The minimum allowable depth is 42 inches.
   (E)   The interconnection of a private, individual water source (well or
cistern) to the village water system is prohibited. If a property owner
maintains a well or cistern, the two water systems must be physically separate.
A valved interconnection is not permitted.
   (F)   Comparable fittings for larger laterals must be provided, with all
materials approved prior to installation.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.087 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Generally
      (1)   (a)   The construction of all building sewers and water service
laterals must be inspected and approved by an authorized inspector of the
village. The cost of inspection is the responsibility of the applicant.
         (b)   Any work covered previous to the inspection shall be uncovered
by the contractor and an opportunity provided to inspect the pipe.
            1.   The water service lateral and/or building sewer outside the
structure must be inspected and approved by an authorized inspector of the
village. Any work covered previous to the inspection shall be uncovered by the
contractor and an opportunity must be provided to inspect the installation.
            2.   All work on the water service lateral and/or building sewer
within the structure must be inspected and approved by the County Combined
Health District.
      (2)   Inspection shall be by appointment only, and 24-hours notice shall
be given prior to the initiation of any construction in order to permit the
scheduling of an inspector. It shall be the contractor’s responsibility to
ensure the delivery of such notice. Such notice shall state the permit
anticipated construction time required for the inspection requested. The
contractor shall immediately inform the village of any unforeseen delays or
postponements not later than 8:30 a.m. of the day for which an inspection is
scheduled. Broken appointments shall result in an additional inspection fee.
      (3)   If it is necessary for another inspection to be made to complete
the approval of either the water service lateral or building sewer, an
additional inspection fee shall be levied. Also, inspections scheduled for
weekends or holidays (if permitted) shall result in additional fees.
      (4)   The presence of the Village Engineer or his or her authorized
inspector does not relieve the contractor of his or her duty to protect any
structure either above, below, or at the surface of the ground. Should any
damage arise due to the actions or a negligence of the contractor, it shall be
his or her bonded duty to correct any such damage within a period of 96 hours.
Upon the contractor’s failure to do so, the Village Engineer may cause such
damage to be repaired either by contract, without advertising, or by such other
arrangement as may be most convenient and satisfactory. The bill for the entire
cost of the same shall be rendered to the contractor who shall be liable
therefor and shall pay the same at once.
   (B)   Final inspection.
      (1)   After payment of all applicable connection fees and charges and in
compliance with all provisions of these rules and regulations, water and/or
sanitary sewer service may be initiated to a property during the construction
of the structure to which service is to be provided. Upon completion of
construction of the structure and at the request of the contractor, the water
and/or sanitary sewer account shall be transferred/released from the builder/
contractor to the property owner only after a final inspection by Department
personnel and approval of the following:
         (a)   Inside: sump pump, foundation drains, plumbing alterations, roof
drains, and the like; and
         (b)   Outside: sump pump discharge, manholes, meter pit, valves, fire
hydrants, and the like.
      (2)   The builder/contractor must correct all deficiencies identified
during the final inspection and/or pay all invoices issued for water and/or
sanitary sewer service within 30 days of being advised of the deficiencies or
being billed for the services. If the builder/contractor fails to correct all
deficiencies or pay the final invoice within the 30-day period, no additional
connection permits shall be issued to that builder/contractor by the village
until the required corrections have been made to the satisfaction of the
village and/or payment in full of the outstanding invoices has been received by
the village.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.088 COVEY WATER MAIN CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the Covey Water Main shall be defined as
that portion of the public water line beginning at the Covey Pumping Station
located at 1395 Lytle Road, proceeding down Lytle Road to Ferry Road, and then
down Ferry Road to the end of the water main line located at 9827 Ferry Road.
   (B)   In order to preserve the safety and maintenance of the village water
system, whenever a connection is made to the Covey Water Main, the individual
or developer making such connection shall be required to replace 100 feet of
the Covey Water Main on either side of such connection, for a total replacement
of 200 feet.
   (C)   The line replacement requirements of division (B) of this section
shall only apply for connections that are intended to serve more than one
residential unit or any commercial building.
   (D)   The requirements of this section shall be in addition to any and all
other provisions required by this Code.
(Ord. 2019-016, passed 4-1-2019)
BILLING METHODS AND PROCEDURES
§ 50.100 WATER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   Water service charges shall be billed for any building, enterprise, or
residence to which water service is provided, either directly or indirectly.
   (B)   Water rates shall be in accordance with the rates established by the
village. A list of all water service charges and associated billing charges are
enumerated in §§
50.120 through
50.124.
   (C)   Water service charges shall be based upon the metered rate of water
usage.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 50.101 SEWER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   Sanitary sewer service charges shall be billed for any building,
enterprise, or residence to which sanitary sewer service is provided, either
directly or indirectly.
   (B)   The sewer rates shall be in accordance with the rates established by
the village.
   (C)   Sanitary sewer service charges shall be based upon the metered water
usage.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 50.102 TRASH COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL CHARGES.
   (A)   Trash collection and disposal service charges shall be billed for any
building, enterprise, or residence to which services are provided, either
directly or indirectly.
   (B)   The rates for trash collection and disposal shall be in accordance
with rates established by the village.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 50.103 OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   Owners of property shall be held responsible for trash collection and
disposal, for water used, and sanitary sewage discharged from his, her, or
their premises. Statements may be mailed to another designated person or
entity, such as a tenant or agent, when a notarized statement is in the billing
office from the owner. If the designated person or entity does not pay in
accordance with these rules and regulations, the owner shall be responsible for
payment. Account delinquency shall be just cause for terminating services which
will be resumed only upon full payment of delinquent charges.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 50.104 BILLING PERIODS.
   (A)   Meter readings will be taken monthly and as near the same date of the
month as is practicable.
   (B)   Should the village be unable to render monthly bills because of a
labor shortage or some other deficiency, such bills may be rendered for a
shorter or longer period, but at the same monthly rate.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 50.105 BILLING AND PAYMENT.
   (A)   Bills will be mailed or otherwise delivered monthly to the address of
the utility customer as on file with the village. Failure to receive bills for
utility service and trash service will not relieve the customer from
responsibility for prompt payment.
   (B)   The due date as stamped on the bill shall be the last date for receipt
of payment in full without incurring penalty.
   (C)   Utility bill and trash bill payments shall be received at The Earl W.
Conner Municipal Building, Utilities Department, 291 Church Street,
Waynesville, Ohio 45068, on or before the due date. The date payment is
received at the office of the Utilities Department will be determinative of the
time payment is received. If payment is made by mail or is processed
automatically by a bank, payment must be made early enough to ensure payment is
received at the Utilities Department by the due date.
   (D)   Where bills for utility service or trash service are not paid in full
on or before the due date stated on the bill, a penalty of 10% of the amount
due shall be added to the net amount of the bill. The gross amount stated on
the bill is the total amount due, including penalty for late payment. Any
partial payment of a bill shall be applied first to the trash bill, then
proportionately to all other charges within the utility bill.
   (E)   Bills remaining unpaid following the due date stated on the bill shall
be declared delinquent. The consumer shall be notified by arrears notice of
such delinquency within ten working days of the due date stated on the bill.
Delinquencies shall be paid by the due date stated on the arrears notice or
utility service will be discontinued to the property. A 24-hour shut-off notice
will be hand delivered to the property prior to service shut-off. Utility
service shall be terminated the following day.
   (F)   Utility service shall be reestablished only after payment in full of
all delinquent charges including rates, surcharges, penalties, and turn-on
charges.
   (G)   If the bill is not paid in full within 60 days of the due date stated
on the bill, the delinquent bill may be certified, together with the
accumulated penalty, to the County Auditor for collection at the same time as
other taxes and assessments are collected.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 50.106 ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Bills shall be corrected if the consumer requests a meter test and it
is determined, upon testing, that the meter readings obtained are in error.
   (B)   No reduction in sanitary sewer and water service charges shall be made
for leakage from a property owner’s private water system, except in cases where
the leakage is underground and not subject to detection by ordinary methods and
where the owner and other occupants of the premises are free from negligence in
causing or failing to report the leakage. Any and all adjustments of bills
shall be at the discretion of the Village Manager and his or her decision in
all such matters shall be final. All such adjustments shall not exceed the
following parameters:
      (1)   The customer shall pay for all water used on the premises; and
      (2)   An adjustment may be made to the sewer service charges if the
Director determines that leaked water was not tributary to the sanitary sewer
system. Adjustment to the sewer service charge may reflect the difference
between average seasonal usage and recorded excess use during the billing
period.
   (C)   If the premises is found to be utilizing water from the water system
or discharging sanitary sewage or other wastes into the village sewer system,
or utilizing trash collection and disposal services, without payment of the
monthly service charges, the village shall measure or establish the quantity of
such water or wastes for the purpose of establishing a proper charge in
accordance with §§
50.120 through
50.124, and such premises shall be charged for the total term of the prior
usage on the basis of the quantity so determined.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 50.107 CLOSED/INACTIVE WATER ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   A water account shall be deemed to be closed if there is no activity
of any sort, including but not limited to no usage fees or capital improvement
charges being incurred, for a period of 90 days from the issuance of the final
bill.
   (B)   The outstanding balances in any closed water accounts which have a
credit or debit balance under the value of $5 shall be written off.
(Ord. 2021-013, passed 4-19-2021)
SCHEDULE OF CHARGES AND RATES
§ 50.120 UTILITY SERVICE RATES GENERALLY.
   (A)   The utility service rates are minimum, not maximum, charges and the
village reserves the right and is obligated to increase the same at any time
should the revenues prove insufficient to pay the operation and maintenance
expenses, debt service, and reserve charges of revenue bonds or financing
issued to construct or to improve utility systems or meet contractual
obligations.
   (B)   In addition to the bulk water hauler deposit provided in §
50.032, the fees provided in §§
50.121 through
50.124 and the water tower fee provided in §
50.148, the water and sanitary sewer utility fees shall be as set forth in the
village’s fee schedule, as adopted by reference in §
36.05.
(Ord. 95-190, passed 12-4-1995; Ord. 96-175, passed 11-18-1996; Ord. 97-104,
passed 2-3-1997; Ord. 97-168, passed 11-17-1998)
§ 50.121 WATER RATES.
   (A)   Water rates shall be as set forth in the village’s fee schedule, as
adopted by reference in §
36.05.
   (B)   Each living unit and business establishment will be charged the base
charge regardless of water usage. A home occupation as defined below is exempt
from a separate base charge unless it is required by state law to provide water
for the public. As used in this division (B), HOME OCCUPATION means any
occupation or profession carried on in a residence in the main building on the
premises, by a member of the family residing therein, including the following:
the practice of medicine; dentistry; engineering; law; factory representative;
insurance sales; and real estate brokering. The reference to “a member of the
family” in this section is limited to a person or persons who reside on the
premises and is related within the first degree of kinship to the owner or
principal tenant of the premises. No more than one other person other than the
resident member of the family residing on the premises shall be directly
employed in the business.
   (C)   Should the bill for any service rendered by the municipal waterworks
system remain unpaid after the fifteenth day after the date of the bill, a
penalty of 10% of such billing shall be added. If water bills are not paid
within such time as is set by Council, the Utility Clerk is authorized to have
water service shut off at such premises. If such bill is not paid within 60
days, the Utility Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to certify the
delinquent bill, including all penalties, to the County Auditor for collection
as and at the same time as other taxes and assessments are collected.
   (D)   Whenever the village is required to turn off water service to any
living unit or business establishment because of non-payment of the water
bills, transfer of owner or occupancy, or any other reason, there shall be a
charge as set forth in the village’s fee schedule, as adopted by reference in §
36.05 for turning such water off and for turning such water back on; except if
an owner or occupant is going to be absent from his or her premises for an
extended period of time, and requests the village to turn off his or her water,
such owner or occupant shall continue to pay the base rate during his or her
absence and there will be no charge in that instance for turning his or her
water off and turning it back on.
   (E)   The owner of private property which is served by the waterworks system
as well as the lessee of the premises shall be liable to the village for all
water service to such premises and the payment thereof.
   (F)   This section shall be reviewed every year to determine if the revenues
are sufficient to adequately operate the waterworks system.
   (G)   Water charges shall be deposited in the Water Fund.
(Ord. 95-128, passed 5-15-1995; Ord. 95-190, passed 12-4-1995; Ord. 96-175,
passed 11-18-1996; Ord. 97-168, passed 11-17-1997; Ord. 98-132, passed 7-6-
1998; Ord. 2003-054, passed 10-20-2003; Ord. 2004-007, passed 5-3-2004; Ord.
2004-044, passed 12-20-2004; Ord. 2005-002, passed 1-3-2005; Ord. 2005-024,
passed 6-6-2005; Ord. 2008-007, passed 2-4-2008; Ord. 2015-006, passed 3-16-
2015; Ord. 2017-024, passed 6-5-2017; Ord. 2017-036, passed 8-7-2017; 2017-066,
passed 12-18-2017; Ord. 2018-012, passed 2-20-2018; Ord. 2019-063, passed 12-
16-2019)
§ 50.122 SEWER RATES.
   (A)   There is levied and assessed upon each living unit or each lot, parcel
of land, or premises having any active sewer connection with the sanitary sewer
system of the village, or otherwise discharging sewage, industrial waste, water
or other liquids, whether directly or indirectly into such system or any part
thereof, a service charge payable as provided in this section and in the amount
determinable in this section.
   (B)   The sewer service charge shall consist of the base charge, volume
charge, and strength surcharge, as follows:
      BASE CHARGE. The flat rate fee charged to each account regardless of
volume of sewage.
      STRENGTH SURCHARGE. The charge based on the pounds of biochemical oxygen
demand and suspended solids in excess of the amount in standard strength
sewage, and charged to all applicable accounts in addition to all other
charges.
      VOLUME CHARGE. The service charge based on the volume of standard
strength sewage and charged to all accounts in addition to the base charge. The
VOLUME CHARGE includes a capital cost charge for debt service retirement and an
operation, maintenance, and replacement charge. Standard strength sewage shall
include the maximum strengths as follows:
         (a)   Biochemical oxygen demand (five-day): 200 milligrams per liter;
and
         (b)   Suspended solids: 300 milligrams per liter.
   (C)   (1)   The standard strengths for biochemical oxygen demand and
suspended solids, as shown in division (B) of this section, shall be subtracted
from the average strengths, as determined by sampling, to determine the extra
strengths.
      (2)   The extra strengths and the volume of sewage charged for the
billing period shall then be used to determine the weight in pounds of
biochemical oxygen demand and suspended solids to be charged for strength
surcharge.
   (D)   The monthly sewer charges shall be as set forth in the village’s fee
schedule, as adopted by reference in §
36.05.
   (E)   (1)   The sewer charges provided for herein shall be payable monthly
as ordained by the Village Council and shall be made payable at the same time
as water bills are payable. The sewer service charges provided for in this
section shall be increased by a penalty of 10% of the total charge if not paid
within 15 days after the date of billing those charges.
      (2)   Each sewer service charge levied by or pursuant to this section is
hereby made a lien upon the corresponding lot, parcel, building, or premises
serviced by a connection with the sewer system of the village, and if such
sewer service charges and penalties are not paid within 60 days after they
shall become due and payable, they shall be certified to the County Auditor,
who shall place the same on the tax duplicates of the county, with the interest
and penalties allowed by law, to be collected as taxes are collected.
   (F)   The volume of sewage measured for payment for each account shall be as
follows:
      (1)   When the user is also supplied with water from the village water
system, the quantity of water measured for payment shall also be the quantity
of sewage measured for payment.
      (2)   When the user is also supplied with water from the village water
system and only part of the water enters the sewer system, the Village Manager
may require or permit the installation of an additional meter to measure the
quantity of sewage actually entering the sewer system. The meters shall be
approved by the Village Manager and furnished, installed, and maintained at the
expense of the user.
      (3)   When the user is supplied with water, in part or in total, from a
source other than the village water system, the Village Manager shall require
the installation of a meter or meters to measure the supply of water from all
sources or to measure the volume of sewage entering the sewer system. The
meters shall be approved by the Village Manager and furnished, installed, and
maintained at the expense of the user.
      (4)   The Village Manager may require, from the user, that the village be
furnished, upon request, with information and data on all sources of water
within the confines of the premises which may enter the sewer system.
   (G)   The funds received from the collection of all sewer service charges
authorized by this section shall be deposited in a like manner as other village
funds and shall be accounted for in a separate fund. When appropriated by the
village, the funds shall be available for payment of the cost and expenses of
the management, maintenance, repair, and improvement of the wastewater
treatment works and collection system.
   (H)   Each year the Village Manager shall prepare a recommended schedule of
service charges. The schedule shall be considered at the first regular Council
meeting thereafter for ratification and incorporation into this section. The
schedule shall be in accordance with the following requirements:
      (1)   Factors such as strength, volume, and delivery flow rate
characteristics shall be considered and included as the basis for the user’s
contribution to operation and maintenance costs;
      (2)   The schedule shall be revised annually and revised periodically to
reflect actual treatment works operation and maintenance costs; and
      (3)   The schedule shall generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs
of all treatment works operation and maintenance.
   (I)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $25
nor more than $1,000, and each day’s continued violation shall be a separate
offense.
(Ord. 95-129, passed 5-15-1995; Ord. 95-190, passed 12-4-1995; Ord. 96-175,
passed 11-18-1996; Ord. 97-168, passed 11-17-1997; Ord. 98-132, passed 7-6-
1998; Ord. 2003-025, passed 6-2-2003)
Editor’s Note:
   See also Warren County sewer codes and rates
§ 50.123 WATER AND SEWER CONNECTION FEES.
   Water and sewer connection fees are as set forth in the village’s fee
schedule, as adopted by reference in §
36.05.
(Ord. 95-110, passed 2-21-1995; Ord. 95-190, passed 12-4-1995; Ord. 96-174,
passed 11-18-1996; Ord. 96-175, passed 11-18-1996; Ord. 97-168, passed 11-17-
1997; Ord. 2003-044, passed 8-20-2003; Ord. 2008-005, passed 2-4-2008; Ord.
2017-066, passed 12-18-2017)
Editor’s Note:
   See also Warren County sewer codes and rates
§ 50.124 TRASH COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL SERVICE RATES.
   Trash removal service shall be as set forth in the village’s fee schedule,
as adopted by reference in §
36.05.
(Ord. 95-190, passed 12-4-1995; Ord. 96-135, passed 7-15-1996; Ord. 96-175,
passed 11-18-1996; Ord. 97-177, passed 12-1-1997; Ord. 97-168, passed 11-17-
1998; Ord. 2020-024, passed 6-1-2020)
CONNECTIONS AND OTHER CHARGES
§ 50.140 CONNECTIONS TO WATER SUPPLY AND SANITARY SEWER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall make a service connection, or
any part thereof, to the water systems or sanitary sewer system of the village,
or cause the same to be done, without first a permit and paying all applicable
fees and charges.
   (B)   The lots and parcels of land specifically covered by the non-
participant charges, system capacity charges, and/or other charges described
herein, are set forth and delineated in specific ordinances and agreements of
the village, to which reference is hereby made for identification purposes.
   (C)   Prior to recording subdivision plats, all utility fees and charges are
to be paid in accordance with the subdivision ordinance of the village (see
Chapter 152 of these codified ordinances).
   (D)   Prior to the issuance of a building permit, all applicable fees and
charges must be paid to the Utilities Department. A release will then be issued
to the Building Department.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.141 CONNECTION CHARGE.
   (A)   A separate water connection fee and sanitary sewer connection fee
shall be made for each water or sewer utility connection to any property within
or outside the village in accordance with a fee schedule approved by Village
Council (see §
50.123).
   (B)   Water and sanitary sewer connection charges, and all other applicable
charges, shall be paid in cash and in full prior to installation of a water
service lateral/water meter or sanitary sewer service lateral, or issuance of a
building permit.
   (C)   (1)   The proceeds of the water connection charge shall be held in a
separate and distinct fund, designated the “Water System Improvement Fund”, and
shall be encumbered along with interest earned for the purpose of financing
capital improvements to the water supply system to meet increased demand,
improve system efficiency, or meet federal, state, and local regulations.
      (2)   Sanitary sewer connection fees shall be paid into a “Sanitary Sewer
System Improvement Fund” and shall be encumbered along with interest earned for
the purpose of financing capital improvements to the sanitary sewer system to
meet increased demand, improve system efficiency, or meet federal, state, and
local regulations.
   (D)   Multiple connection fees shall be paid as a result of any expansion or
change in the nature of the use of property which results in creation of
additional single-family, commercial, industrial, or multi- family units.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.142 NON-PARTICIPANT WATER CHARGES - PUBLIC CONSTRUCTION AND PRIVATE
CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Public construction.
      (1)   When connections are made to a water supply system or additional
water service is required for a property now or hereafter connected to the
water system as a result of an expansion or a change in the nature of the use
of the property which results in increased water usage owners of improved
property, whether residential, commercial, industrial, or manufacturing, may
have to pay a non- participant charge in addition to the connection fee.
      (2)   The minimum non-participant charge shall be set according to the
Village Council, per single-family equivalent residential unit.
      (3)   All non-participant charges shall be paid in cash and in full prior
to connection to the water supply system, recording of subdivision plat, if
applicable, or issuance of building permit by the County Building Department.
      (4)   Non-participant charges shall be deposited in the Special
Assessment Bond Retirement Fund as directed by the Village Council until such
time as the outstanding obligations issued therefor have been paid in full.
Thereafter, the non-participant charges shall be deposited in the Water Capital
Improvement Fund to be applied to the enlargement, replacement, or extension of
the water supply system.
   (B)   Private construction.
      (1)   In addition to a connection charge, non-participant charges shall
apply to all connections of improved properties and the additional water
service requirements for a property now or hereafter connected to the water
system as a result of an expansion or change in the nature of the use of the
property which results in increased water usage, whether residential,
commercial, industrial, or manufacturing, to an extension of the water supply
system constructed pursuant to a private contract providing for reimbursement
of original cost, when such properties were non-participants in the original
cost. (See §
50.141)
      (2)   All non-participant charges shall be paid in cash and in full prior
to connection to the water supply system, recording of subdivision plat, if
applicable, or issuance of a building permit by the County Building Department.
      (3)   For a period of ten years after completion of construction, the
proceeds of the non- participant charges shall be held in separate and distinct
funds designated as the Reimbursement Fund for the water improvement, to be
paid quarterly to the individual, organization, or agency of private enterprise
that constructed the extension. After the ten-year period, the proceeds of the
non-participant charges shall be deposited in the Water Capital Improvement
Fund.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.143 NON-PARTICIPANT SANITARY SEWER CHARGES - PRIVATE CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   In addition to connection charges, non-participant charges shall apply
to all connections of improved properties and to the additional sewer service
required for a property now or hereafter connected to the sewerage system as a
result of an expansion or a change in the nature of the use of the property
which results whether residential, commercial, industrial, or manufacturing, to
an extension of a sewerage system constructed pursuant to a private contract
providing for reimbursement of original cost when such properties were non-
participants in the original cost.
   (B)   Prior to the connection to the sewerage system, recording of
subdivision plat, if applicable, or issuance of a building permit by the County
Building Department, the non-participant charge shall be paid in cash and in
full.
   (C)   For a period of ten years after completion of construction, the
proceeds of the non-participant charge shall be held in separate and distinct
funds designated as the reimbursement fund for the sewer improvement, to be
paid quarterly to the individual, organization, or agency of private enterprise
that constructed the extension. After the ten-year period, the proceeds of the
non-participant charges shall be deposited in the Sanitary Sewer Capital
Improvement Fund.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.144 SYSTEM CAPACITY CHARGES - SANITARY SEWER.
   (A)   System capacity charges shall apply to all connections of improved
property to a sewerage system, or extensions thereof of additional sewer
service being provided to a property now or hereafter connected to the sewerage
system as a result of an expansion or a change in the nature of the use of the
property which results in an increased discharge to the sewerage system, for
which sanitary sewerage collection is provided by the Village Council which
establishes fees and charges to be collected by the village on behalf of the
other political subdivision.
   (B)   Prior to the connection to the sewerage system or recording of
subdivision plat, if applicable, the system capacity charge shall be paid in
full.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.145 CAPACITY CHARGES - SANITARY SEWER.
   (A)   A capacity charge shall be applicable to all connections of improved
property to a sewerage system, or extension thereof, constructed by revenue
financing and for the additional sanitary sewer service requirements for a
property now or hereafter connected to the sewerage system as a result of an
expansion or a change in the nature of the use of the property which results in
an increased discharge to the sewerage system.
   (B)   Prior to the construction to the sewerage system, recording of
subdivision plat, if applicable, or issuance of a building permit by the County
Building Department, the capacity charge shall be paid in full.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.146 SUPPLEMENTAL SANITARY SEWER CONNECTION CHARGES.
   A supplemental sanitary sewer connection charge may be applicable to areas
dependent upon a pump station to be provided sanitary sewer service and for the
additional sanitary sewer service requirements for a property now or hereafter
connected to the sewerage system as a result of an expansion or a change in the
nature of the use of the property which results in an increased discharge to
the sewerage system. The supplemental sanitary sewer connection charge, if
applicable, shall be paid prior to connection to the sewerage system, recording
of a subdivision plat, or issuance of a building permit.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.147 TAPPING FEE.
   (A)   Upon request, the Utilities Department will provide an estimate for
the following, together with any pavement repair or surface restoration
required, provided that manpower and materials are available to do the work:
      (1)   Tapping the water main and installation of a corporation stop,
water service line from the main to the easement area, installation of a curb
stop and curb box, water meter pit, and water meter setter; and/or
      (2)   Tapping the sanitary sewer main and installation of a sanitary
sewer service lateral from the main to the easement area including riser pipe;
   (B)   The applicant shall make a deposit with the Finance Director in the
amount of the estimate in cash, or by certified or cashier’s check payable to
the village, prior to construction of the work. Should the actual cost of the
work be either higher or lower than the estimate, the applicant will either pay
the difference or be entitled to a refund as the case may be.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 50.148 WATER TOWER FEE.
   (A)   Upon the effective date of this section, all new water utility
customers in the village shall be required to pay a water tower fee. Such water
tower fee is to be paid at the time connection permits are issued, and before
connection to the water system is made.
   (B)   This water tower fee shall be as set forth in the village's fee
schedule, as adopted by reference in §
36.05.
   (C)   The proceeds of this water tower fee shall be held in a separate and
distinct fund, designated the "Water Tower Improvement Fund", and shall be
encumbered along with interest earned for the purpose of financing capital
improvements to the water supply system to meet increased demand, improve
system efficiency, or meet federal, state, and local regulations.
(Ord. 95-190, passed 12-4-1995; Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997; Ord. 97-168,
passed 11-17-1997; Ord. 2019-043, passed 9-3-2019) Penalty, see §
50.999
ADDITIONS AND EXTENSIONS OF WATER AND SEWERAGE SYSTEMS
§ 50.165 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   When requested or petitioned, the Village Council may agree to extend
any water supply or sewerage system. The financing of any such additions or
extensions may be provided by revenue bonds issued in full compliance with the
terms of existing bond resolutions and trust agreements; special assessments,
levied against benefitted properties; general obligation revenues bonds; the
Replacement and Improvement Fund or surplus funds; cash payments by benefitted
property owners; or some combinations of the above, as determined by the
Village Council.
   (B)   The village, upon application by an individual, organization, or
agency of private enterprise, may, by resolution, grant permission to such
individual, organization, or agency to construct, at its cost, water supply or
sewerage improvements by private contract under the supervision of the Village
Engineer, as discussed in §§
50.080 through
50.087.
   (C)   All water supply or sewerage systems, or extensions thereof, shall be
constructed in accordance with the detail plans and specifications prepared by
a professional engineer and approved by the Village Engineer.
   (D)   All water supply or sewerage systems, or extensions thereof, shall be
constructed across the property to which service is to be provided in all
situations where further extensions are possible in the future.
   (E)   Connections to the water supply or sewerage systems shall not be
permitted until:
      (1)   Construction of the sanitary sewer or water system is completed and
approved by the village, and maintenance bond is posted;
      (2)   Verification of “as-built” locations, alignments, depths, and
grades of all new public water and sanitary sewers is provided; and
      (3)   As-built reproducible drawings must be submitted within two months
of first connection being made to the water or sewerage systems.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.166 PRIVATE CONSTRUCTION OF WATER AND SEWERAGE SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Reimbursement of original cost. 
      (1)   Pursuant to R.C. § 743.13, the village may, by resolution, permit
the construction of water mains or sanitary sewers by an individual,
organization, or agency of private enterprise (the “applicant”). Such
resolution shall authorize the collection of pro-rated shares of the original
cost of such improvement (the “non-participant charge”) as provided by the
applicant and approved by the Village Engineer.
      (2)   Such resolution shall be filed by the applicant with the village,
which filing shall constitute constructive notice thereof to non-participants
in the original cost of the improvement (the “non- participant”).
      (3)   The non-participant charge shall be based upon a unit charge and/or
front footage charge and shall not be in excess of the amount chargeable to
such non-participant had he or she participated in the original cost of the
aforesaid improvement. When construction has been completed, all costs must be
submitted by the applicant to the Village Engineer for verification and
recommendation to the Village Council for acceptance and approval, including
the determination of the non-participant charge.
      (4)   After the non-participant charge is determined, a description of
the properties abutting the improvement, the unit charge, and/or front footage
charge to be paid by each non-participant must be approved by resolution of the
Village Council and certified to the Finance Director for collection.
      (5)   Prior to any connection to the improvement by a non-participant,
the Finance Director shall collect the non-participant charge for reimbursement
to the applicant.
      (6)   The term of a reimbursement shall not exceed ten years.
      (7)   No subsequent assignee or grantee of the applicant shall be
considered a non-participant.
   (B)   Guarantees of all private construction, including reimbursement
extensions. All water supply and sewerage systems constructed by applicants
shall be guaranteed against any and all defects of workmanship and materials
for a period of one year from the date of acceptance by the Village Council.
The cost of all labor, materials, tools, equipment, and any incidentals
required to maintain, repair, and replace any part of the improvement,
including streets or road repairs, trench maintenance, and restoration of
lawns, driveways, walks, shrubs, and the like, during the one-year guarantee
period shall be assumed by the applicant. As a guarantee for payment of such
cost, the applicant shall remit to the village a maintenance bond in the amount
of 10% of the construction cost and in a form satisfactory to the Village
Council. At the end of the one-year period and at the written request of the
applicant, the village will make a final inspection of the water supply or
sewerage systems and, if such improvements meet all applicable standards and
requirements of the village, the maintenance bond will be released and the
improvements accepted for maintenance and operation by the village.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.167 OVERSIZING.
   (A)   In some instances the village, upon recommendation of the Village
Engineer, may determine that the size of a water main or sanitary sewer should
be increased for future expansion.
   (B)   When determined by the village to be necessary, the oversized
facilities shall be installed by the developer.
   (C)   The village may pay the difference, as determined by the Village
Engineer pursuant to this division (C), in the cost of oversizing water mains
in excess of ten inches in diameter and sanitary sewers in excess of 12 inches
in diameter.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, group, or corporation, either owner or agent, committing a
violation of these rules and regulations shall be subject to revocation or
suspension of permits or licenses and shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
subject to a fine in accordance with the Ohio Revised Code, particularly R.C.
§§ 711.101 and 711.102. In addition, the violator of these rules and
regulations shall be liable and responsible for any and all damages incurred as
a result of the violation. Any violation of any section of these rules and
regulations for which no penalty is specifically provided shall be punishable
by a fine of not more than $200, with each day or act of violation considered a
separate offense.
(Ord. 97-104, passed 2-3-1997)
CHAPTER 51: BACKFLOW PREVENTION AND CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Prohibitions
   
51.03   Surveys and investigations
   
51.04   Certification
   
51.05   Where protection is required
   
51.06   Type of protection required
   
51.07   Backflow prevention devices
   
51.08   Booster pumps
   
51.09   Yard hydrants
   
51.10   Violations
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water
to a tank, plumbing fixture, or other device and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
   APPROVED. A backflow prevention device or method has been accepted by the
supplier of water and the Director as suitable for the proposed use.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any water system on or available to the premises
other than the public water system and includes the water supplied by the
system. These AUXILIARY WATERS may include water from another supplier’s public
water system; water from a source such as wells, lakes or streams; process
fluids; or used water. They may be polluted or contaminated or objectionable or
constitute a water source or system over which the supplier of water does not
have control.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances into
the distributing pipes of a potable water supply from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method, or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system.
   CONSUMER. The owner or person in control of any premises supplied by or in
any manner connected to the public water system.
   CONSUMER’S WATER SYSTEM. Any water system, located on the consumer’s
premises, supplied by or in any manner connected to the public water system. A
household plumbing system is considered to be a CONSUMER’S WATER SYSTEM.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by sewage or
process fluid or waste to a degree which could create an actual hazard to the
public health through poisoning or through spread of disease by exposure.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any arrangement whereby backflow can occur.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. A term derived from an evaluation of the potential risk to
health and the adverse effect upon the potable water system.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Environmental Protection in Ohio or his or her
duly authorized representative.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of two single,
independently acting check valves including tightly closing shutoff valves
located at each end of the assembly and suitable connections for testing the
water-tightness of each check valve.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device, or practice in a water system or its
operation that creates, or may create, a danger to the health and well being of
users. The word SEVERE as used to qualify HEALTH HAZARD means a hazard to the
health of the user that could reasonably be expected to result in significant
morbidity or death.
   INTERCHANGEABLE CONNECTION. An arrangement or device that will allow
alternate but not simultaneous use of two sources of water.
   NON-POTABLE WATER. Water not safe for drinking, personal, or culinary use.
   PERSON. The state, any political subdivision, public or private corporation,
individual, partnership, or other legal entity.
   POLLUTION. The presence in water of any foreign substance that tends to
degrade its quality so as to constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness or
quality of the water to a degree which does not create an actual hazard to the
public health but which does adversely and unreasonably affect such waters for
domestic use.
   POLLUTION HAZARD. A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable
or degrading material, not dangerous to health, may enter the public water
system or a potable consumer’s water system.
   POTABLE WATER. Water which is satisfactory for drinking, culinary, and
domestic purposes and meets the requirements of the Environmental Protection
Agency.
   PROCESS FLUIDS. Any fluid or solution which may be chemically, biologically,
or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration such as would
constitute a health, pollutional, or system hazard if introduced into the
public or a potable consumer’s water system. This includes, but is not limited
to:
      (1)   Polluted or contaminated waters;
      (2)   Process waters;
      (3)   Used waters originating from the public water system which may have
deteriorated in sanitary quality.
      (4)   Cooling waters;
      (5)   Contaminated natural waters taken from wells, lakes, streams, or
irrigation systems;
      (6)   Chemicals in solution or suspension;
      (7)   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis, and other liquid and gaseous fluids
used in industrial or other processes, or for firefighting purposes.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. The meaning ascribed to such term in O.A.C. § 3745-81-
01.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device containing a
minimum of two independently acting check valves together with an automatically
operated pressure differential relief valve located between the two check
valves. During normal flow and at the cessation of normal flow, the pressure
between these two checks shall be less than the supply pressure. In case of
leakage of either check valve, the differential relief valve, by discharging to
the atmosphere, shall operate to maintain the pressure between the check valves
at less than the supply pressure. The unit must include tightly closing shutoff
valves located at each properly located test cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service line from the public water
system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service, then the service
connection means the downstream end of the meter.
   SUPPLIER OF WATER. The owner or operator of a public water system; in this
case the Village of Waynesville, Ohio.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. A condition posing an actual or potential threat of damage to
the physical properties of the public water system or a potable consumer’s
water system.
   USED WATER. Any water supplied by a supplier of water from a public water
system to a consumer’s water system after it has passed through the service
connection and is no longer under the control of the supplier.
(Ord. 94-150, passed 11-7-1994)
§ 51.02 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall install or maintain a water service connection to any
premises where actual or potential cross-connections to a public water system
may exist unless such actual or potential cross- connections are abated or
controlled to the satisfaction of the supplier of water.
   (B)   No person shall install or maintain any connection whereby water from
an auxiliary water system may enter a public water system or potable consumer’s
water system unless the auxiliary water system and the method of connection and
use of such system shall have been approved by the supplier of water and by the
Director of the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency as required by R.C. §
6109.13.
(Ord. 94-150, passed 11-7-1994) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 51.03 SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   Each person making application for connection to the public water
supply system or executing a service contract with the supplier of water shall
conduct or cause to be conducted a survey of water use practices within the
consumer’s premises to determine whether there are actual or potential cross-
connections to the consumer’s water system through which contaminants or
pollutants could backflow into the public water system.
   (B)   The supplier of water, or his or her authorized representative, shall
have the right to enter premises served by the public water system at all
reasonable times for the purpose of making surveys and investigations of water
use practices within the premises.
   (C)   On request by the supplier of water or his or her authorized
representative, the consumer shall furnish the supplier, or his or her
authorized representative, information on water use practices within consumer’s
premises.
(Ord. 94-150, passed 11-7-1994) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 51.04 CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   Each applicant for water service shall certify to the supplier of
water, prior to issuance of a connection permit or acceptance of a utility
service agreement, that no actual or potential cross- connections to the public
water system exist on applicant’s premises or that any such actual or potential
cross-connections are abated or controlled to the satisfaction of the supplier
of water.
   (B)   The supplier of water shall determine the certification method to be
used, which shall include one or more of the following:
      (1) Submission of a signed certification to the supplier of water from
the applicant for service in conjunction with the utility service agreement;
      (2)   Submission of plumbing plans approved in accordance with state and
local building codes to the supplier of water prior to issuance of a service
connection permit;
      (3)   Purchase and installation of an approved backflow prevention device
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter; or
      (4)   Written certification from the Director of the Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency to the supplier of water that the applicant’s service
connection is exempt from regulation under this chapter.
(Ord. 94-150, passed 11-7-1994) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 51.05 WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water system;
      (2)   Premises on which any substance is handled in such a fashion as to
create an actual or potential hazard to a public water system, including
premises having sources or systems containing process waters or fluids or
waters originating from a public water system which are no longer under the
control of the supplier of water;
      (3)   Premises having internal cross-connections that, in the judgement
of the supplier of water, are not correctable, or intricate plumbing
arrangements which make it impracticable to determine whether or not cross-
connections exist;
      (4)   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey;
      (5)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or re-established; or
      (6)   Others specified by the supplier of water or the Director of the
Ohio Environmental Protection Agency.
   (B)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving, but not necessarily limited
to, the following types of facilities:
      (1)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes;
      (2)   Laboratories;
      (3)   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities;
      (4)   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations, or storm water
pumping stations;
      (5)   Food or beverage processing plants;
      (6)   Chemical plants;
      (7)   Metal plating industries;
      (8)   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
      (9)   Radioactive material processing plant or nuclear reactors;
      (10)   Car washes; and
      (11)   Others specified by the supplier of water or the Director of the
Ohio Environmental Protection Agency.
   (C)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed at any point
of connection between a public water supply system or a potable consumer’s
water system and an auxiliary water system.
(Ord. 94-150, passed 11-7-1994; Ord. 96-136, passed 8-5-1996) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 51.06 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The type of protection required shall depend on the degree of hazard
which exists as follows.
      (1)   An approved air gap separation shall be installed where the public
water system may be contaminated with substances that could cause a severe
health hazard.
      (2)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device shall be installed where the public water
system may be contaminated with any substance that could cause a system or
health hazard.
      (3)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device or an approved double check valve assembly
shall be installed where the public water system may be polluted with any
substance that could cause a pollutional hazard.
   (B)   An approved air gap separation or an approved interchangeable
connection backflow prevention device shall be installed at any point of
connection between a public water system or a potable consumer’s water system
and an auxiliary water system.
(Ord. 94-150, passed 11-7-1994) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 51.07 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   All backflow prevention devices shall be of a model or construction
approved by the Director of the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency and the
supplier of water.
   (B)   Any backflow prevention device required under the provisions of this
chapter shall be installed at a location and in a manner approved by the
supplier of water, and shall be installed by and at the expense of the water
consumer.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the consumer, on any premises on which
backflow prevention devices are required and installed, to have thorough
inspections and operational tests made of the devices at least once per year.
These inspections and tests shall be at the expense of the water consumer and
shall be performed by a person qualified to inspect and test backflow
prevention devices. It shall be the duty of the supplier of water to see that
these inspections and tests are made. These devices shall be repaired,
overhauled or replaced at the expense of the consumer whenever they are found
to be defective. Records of inspections, tests, repairs and overhaul shall be
kept by the consumer and made available to the supplier of water.
(Ord. 94-150, passed 11-7-1994) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 51.08 BOOSTER PUMPS.
   (A)   No person shall install or maintain a water service connection to any
premises where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within such premises, unless such booster pump is equipped with a low pressure
cut-off designed to shutoff the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to ten pounds per square inch gauge
or less.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low
pressure cut-off device in proper working order and to certify to the supplier
of water, at least once a year, that the device is operable.
(Ord. 94-150, passed 11-7-1994) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 51.09 YARD HYDRANTS.
   The installation of yard hydrants where water is available or accessible for
drinking or culinary purposes and having drip openings below ground surface is
prohibited unless such hydrants are equipped with approved devices to prevent
entrance of ground water into chambers connected to the water supply.
(Ord. 94-150, passed 11-7-1994) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 51.10 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The supplier of water shall deny or discontinue, after reasonable
notice to the occupant thereof, the water service to any premises wherein:
      (1)   Any backflow prevention device required by this chapter is not
installed, tested, and maintained in a manner acceptable to the supplier of
water;
      (2)   If it is found that the backflow prevention device was removed or
by-passed;
      (3)   If an unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises;
      (4)   If a low pressure cut off on a booster pump is not installed or
maintained in good working order; or
      (5)   If the supplier of water or his or her authorized representative is
denied entry to determine compliance with this chapter or any provision of the
Ohio Administrative Code.
   (B)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with this chapter, and to the satisfaction of the supplier of water.
(Ord. 94-150, passed 11-7-1994) Penalty, see §
50.999
CHAPTER 52: SEWER USE REGULATIONS
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Prohibited discharges
   
52.03   Public sewer use regulations
   
52.04   Wastewater monitoring and inspection
   
52.05   Protection from accidental discharge
   
52.06   Violations
 
   
52.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Subdivision regulations
      Drainage, see §
152.072
      Generally, see
Ch. 152
      Private utilities, see §
152.082
      Sewers, see §§
152.071 and
152.079
      Water, see §§
152.070 and
152.079
      Wells, protection of, see §
152.083
   Utilities rules and regulations, see
Ch. 50
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
three feet outside the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Service of the village or an authorized
representative.
   DIRECTOR OF OEPA. The Director of the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency.
   FOUNDATION DRAINS. Subsurface drains laid around the foundation of a
building, either within or outside the building foundation for the purpose of
carrying ground or subsurface water to some point of disposal.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food and from the commercial handling, storage, and sale of
produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. A solid, liquid, or gaseous waste resulting from any
industrial, commercial, manufacturing, trade, or business process or from the
development, recovery, or processing of natural resources together with such
sewage as is present.
   MAY is permissive; SHALL is mandatory.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. The same as
such is defined in the Code of Federal Requirements, 40 C.F.R. part 125, and in
P.L. 92-500, § 402 (33 U.S.C. § 1342).
   NATURAL OUTLET. An outlet, including storm sewers, into a watercourse, pond,
ditch, lake, or other body of surface water or ground water.
   NONSANITARY FLOW. Storm water originating from downspouts, storm and ground
water drains, and foundation drains.
   POLLUTANT. Any substance discharged to a POTW or its collection system that
will cause adverse effects as defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307 of
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.), as
amended; or any substance or condition determined by the Director to cause
adverse effects to the village treatment works, sanitary sewers and conveyance
appurtenances, equipment, or employees.
   POTW (PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS). Any sewage treatment works owned and/
or operated by the village or its authorized agent, and the sewer and
conveyance appurtenances discharging thereto.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or
otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW.
   PUBLIC SEWER. Any sewer owned by the village, including storm or sanitary
sewer.
   RESIDENTIAL. A principal family residence or habitation classified as a
single-family, multi- family, or apartment dwelling that discharges domestic
sanitary wastewater having characteristics of 200 milligrams per liter BOD and
200 milligrams per liter suspended solids into the public wastewater treatment
system, works, and facility.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary and industrial wastes, and to
which storm, surface, and ground water are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions
(including polluted cooling water as permitted by the Ohio EPA).
   SEWAGE SYSTEM. The structures, equipment, and process required to collect,
transport, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent
and accumulated residual solids, and shall be synonymous with WASTEWATER
TREATMENT SYSTEM.
   SLUG LOAD. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of
any given constituent or in quantity of flow results in pollutants which pass
through or interfere with the operation of the POTW.
   STORM SEWER. A pipe or conduit designed for the purpose of carrying storm,
surface, and drainage water from the point of origin to some point of disposal,
but which is not intended to carry domestic or industrial sewage.
   USER. Any person who discharges, causes, or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the wastewater treatment system, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Retail and wholesale business establishments;
      (2)   Manufacturing concerns involving the mechanical or chemical
transformation of materials or substances into products;
      (3)   Institutional and governmental concerns including hospitals;
nursing homes; schools; city, county, state, or federal buildings or
facilities;
      (4)   Principal family residences or habitations classified as single-
family, multi-family, or apartment dwelling; and
      (5)   Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation,
political subdivision, authority, or group which has entered into an agreement
with the village for discharge of sewage and wastes into the village wastewater
treatment system, works, and facility.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Waynesville, Ohio, acting through its duly
authorized officials and employees.
   WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried waste from dwellings, commercial
buildings, industrial facilities, and institutions, whether treated or
untreated, which is discharged or permitted to enter the wastewater treatment
system.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM. The structures, equipment, and process required
to collect, transport, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent and accumulated residual solids, and shall be synonymous with
SEWAGE SYSTEM.
(Ord. 96-139, passed 8-19-1996)
§ 52.02 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   The Director shall make and enforce rules and regulations establishing
the types, amount, and characteristics of sewage and wastes discharged into the
sanitary sewerage system; the types, amount, and characteristics of sewage and
wastes admissible to the system after pretreatment; requisites for
pretreatment; fees for review and approval of applications for service,
pretreatment plans, engineering advice and studies, program administration, and
the like for review of applications and enforcement of code provisions; and
otherwise governing the discharge of sewage and wastes into the system in the
interest of safety and efficient operation of the wastewater treatment plant.
   (B)   Any user must, upon a request of the Director, present to the Director
for review and approval information sufficient for the Director to determine
compliance with the provisions of this chapter, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   A chemical analysis of the wastes to be discharged to the sewerage
system expressed in units acceptable to the Director, or if this is not
available, the expected waste analysis based on similar processes now in
operation together with a letter of agreement from the applicant that chemical
analysis of the wastes is to be performed at applicant’s expense at a frequency
and in accordance with a time frame established by the Director;
      (2)   A description of the characteristics of the wastes and an estimate
of the amount of such wastes to be discharged to the sanitary sewer system
expressed in units acceptable to the Director;
      (3)   A plan for pretreatment of any wastes that do not comply with the
provisions of this chapter; and
      (4)   Any other data determined by the Director as necessary to determine
compliance with the provisions of this chapter together with required fees for
review and administration of the data.
   (C)   If at any time the character of sewage or waste from any user is such
that, in the judgement of the Director, it will damage the sewerage system or
cannot be treated satisfactorily at the wastewater treatment plant, the
Director shall compel such users to prevent it from entering the sewerage
system.
   (D)   In cases where the character of the sewage or waste or the volume of
the sewage or waste from any user is such that, in the judgement of the
Director, the waste or sewage imposes an unreasonable burden upon the sewage
collection, pumping, or treatment works the Director may:
      (1)   Compel such user to treat such sewage in such manner as specified
by the village before discharging it into the sewerage system;
      (2)   Require flow control or equalization of such wastes so as to avoid
any slug loads or excessive flows that may be harmful to the treatment works;
      (3)   Require payment of a surcharge fee on any excessive flows or
loadings discharged to the treatment works to cover the additional costs of
having capacity for and treating such wastes; and/or
      (4)   Compel such user to prevent the waste from entering the sewerage
system.
   (E)   (1)   (a)   The discharge of unacceptable wastewater into the sewerage
system, whether directly or indirectly, is prohibited. Wastewater shall be
deemed unacceptable when the concentration of regulated substances in the
wastewater exceeds certain prescribed tolerable limits. Regulated substances
include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following:
Regulated Substance Tolerable Limits (mg/l)
Regulated Substance    Tolerable Limits (mg/l)
Ammonia                30.0
Arsenic                0.2
Barium                 1.0
BOD                    255.0
Boron                  5.0
Cadmium                0.1
Chromium+3             0.5
Chromium+6             0.5
Cobalt                 1.0
Copper                 0.5
Cyanide (HCN)          0.5
Fluoride               5.0
Iron                   5.0
Lead                   0.5
Mercury                0.02
Molybdenum             5.0
Nickel                 2.0
Phenols                5.0
Phosphorus             20.0
Selenium               0.1
Silver                 0.03
Sulfides               50.0
Total dissolved solids 255.0
Tungsten               5.0
Zinc                   2.0
 
         (b)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of
such half-life or concentrations as exceed limits in compliance with applicable
state or federal regulations.
      (2)   The preceding list of regulated substances is subject to revisions
by the Director as required to meet desired plant operations guidelines, or
current water quality standards or effluent standards imposed by state or
federal agencies.
   (F)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged, either directly
or indirectly to the sewerage system, any of the following described
substances, materials, waters, or wastes:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F., or
that causes, in whole or part, the temperature of the influent to the
wastewater system to exceed 104°F.;
      (2)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel, oil, mineral oil, or other
volatile flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (3)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance which, either singly or
by interaction with other wastes, is capable of creating a public nuisance or
hazard to life or of preventing entry into the sewers for their maintenance and
repair;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0,
or having any corrosive property of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, or personnel of the sewerage system;
      (5)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood punch manure, hair, entrails, lime slurry, lime,
plant residues, cannery wastes, bulk solids, or any other solid objects or
viscous substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow operation of the
sewerage system;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to inhibit or interfere with any sewerage treatment
process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the sewerage system;
      (7)   Any water or wastes containing oil or grease exceeding, on
analysis, an average of 50 milligrams of oil and grease per liter determined as
total either soluble matter;
      (8)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded to a degree that
all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions of the sewer and
with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension;
      (9)   Any water or wastes containing suspended solids of such character
or quality that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such
materials at the sewage treatment plant, or having a chlorine demand greater
than 25 ppm;
      (10)   Any waste containing substances that would result in a violation
of the NPDES permit; and/or
      (11)   The above list is subject to revisions as required to meet current
water quality standards imposed by the state or federal agencies.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be interpreted as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the village and any
user whereby a waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the
village for treatment. In all such cases, the procedures set forth in this
chapter and the village ordinance establishing sewer service charges will be
governing factors in any contracts entered into.
   (H)   (1)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in
the opinion of the Director, they are necessary for proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, sand, and other harmful
ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for private
living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
      (2)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
Interceptors shall be of substantial construction, water-tight, and equipped
with easily removable covers which when bolted in place shall be gas-tight and
water-tight. The Director shall review and approve the design of grease and oil
interceptors prior to construction.
      (3)   Where installed, all grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner at his or her expense in continuous efficient operation
at all times.
(Ord. 96-139, passed 8-19-1996) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 PUBLIC SEWER USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to discharge into any natural outlet within the
village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village, any untreated
wastewater or other polluted waters.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater
without first obtaining the required state and local permits.
   (C)   No person, firm, or corporation shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any storm water, ground water, roof runoff, or subsurface drainage
to any sanitary sewer. Industrial process water or cooling water shall not be
discharged to any sanitary sewer unless in conformance with the discharge
limits of a required NPDES permit.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to discharge into the building sanitary sewer the
surface water which collects in basement or foundation excavations. If the
building sanitary sewer is complete before the plumbing can be connected
thereto, the builder or sewer tapper shall keep the end of the building
sanitary sewer tightly closed with a plumber’s plug or other water-tight plug.
   (E)   The owners of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the
village is hereby required at the owner’s expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly to the proper
public sewer in accordance with the rules and regulations of the village within
30 days after the date of official notice to do so, provided the foundation
wall of the structure from which sewage or other wastes originated is less than
200 feet from the nearest boundary of the right-of-way within which the sewer
is located.
   (F)   No person, firm, or corporation shall be permitted to connect to or
discharge wastewater to the village sewage system unless it has been determined
by the Director that there is sufficient capacity in the system to collect,
convey, and treat the proposed wastewater discharge of such person, firm, or
corporation.
(Ord. 96-139, passed 8-19-1996) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04 WASTEWATER MONITORING AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Director may require users who discharge or propose to
discharge wastewaters to the wastewater treatment system to maintain such
records of production and related factors, effluent flows, and pollutant
amounts and concentrations of such pollutants that are necessary to demonstrate
compliance with the requirements of this chapter and any applicable state or
federal pretreatment standards or requirements.
      (2)   Such records shall be retained and preserved by the discharger for
no less than three years, including any records, books, documents, memorandum,
reports, correspondence or any other items relating to monitoring, and sampling
and chemical analysis made by or in behalf of the discharger.
   (B)   Such records shall be made available to the village upon request by
the Director. All such records relating to compliance with pretreatment
standards shall be made available to officials of the Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency (OEPA) upon demand.
   (C)   (1)   If so ordered by the Director, the owner or operator of any
premises or facility discharging wastes into the system shall install at their
own cost and expense suitable monitoring equipment to facilitate the accurate
observation, sampling, and measurement of wastes. Such equipment shall be
maintained in proper working order and kept safe and accessible at all times.
      (2)   The monitoring equipment shall be located and maintained on the
user’s premises outside of the building. When such a location would be
impractical or cause undue hardship on the user, the Director may allow such a
facility to be constructed in the public right-of-way, with the approval of the
public agency having jurisdiction of such right-of-way, and located so that
traffic sight distances will not be obstructed by public utilities,
landscaping, or parked vehicles.
   (D)   When more than one user can discharge into a common sewer, the
Director may require installation of separate monitoring equipment for each
user. When there is a significant difference in wastewater constituents and
characteristics produced by different operations of a single user, the Director
may require that separate monitoring facilities be installed for each
discharge.
   (E)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the monitoring
facilities shall be constructed in accordance with the Director’s requirements
and all applicable construction standards and specifications of the village and
with the approval of the Director.
   (F)   Compliance determinations with respect to the prohibitions and
limitations stated in §
52.02 may be made on the basis of either instantaneous grab samples or
composite samples of wastewater at the point of connection to the village sewer
system. Composite samples may be taken over a time span not to exceed a 24-hour
period, as determined by the Director to be necessary in order to meet the
needs of specific circumstances.
   (G)   Laboratory analysis of wastewater samples shall be performed in
accordance with the current edition of Standard Methods, Methods for Chemical
Analysis of Water and Waste, published by the United States EPA, or the Annual
Book of Standards, Part 23, Water, Atmospheric Analysis, published by the
American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM). Analysis of those pollutants
not covered by these publications shall be performed in accordance with
procedures established by the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency. In
addition, all measurement, tests, and analysis of the characteristics of
wastewater shall also be made in conformance with the October 16, 1975 Federal
Register (40 C.F.R. part 136) entitled Guidelines for Establishing Test
Procedures for the Analysis of Pollutants.
   (H)   Sampling of industrial wastewater for the purpose of compliance
determination, with respect to prohibitions and limitations stated in §
52.02, will be done at such intervals as designated by the Director.
   (I)   Duly authorized employees of the village bearing proper credentials
and identifications shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes
of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing pertinent to
discharge to the community system in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (J)   Duly authorized village employees are authorized to obtain information
concerning processes which have a direct bearing on the kind and source of
discharge to the wastewater collection system. In the case of information
considered by the user to be confidential, such information shall be provided
to the Director of Ohio EPA for a determination of confidentiality in
accordance with O.A.C. § 3745-3-07, which determination shall be final.
   (K)   While performing necessary work for private properties, referred to in
divisions (I) and (J) of this section, the Director or duly authorized
employees of the village shall observe all safety rules applicable to the
premises.
(Ord. 96-139, passed 8-19-1996) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 PROTECTION FROM ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Each user shall provide protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other wastes regulated by this chapter. Plans to
minimize the potential of accidental discharge or prohibited materials shall be
provided for approval by the village, and facilities constructed in accordance
with the plans shall be installed and maintained at the owner’s or operator’s
own cost and expense. Detailed plans showing facilities and operating
procedures to provide this protection shall be submitted to the Director for
review, and shall be approved by the Director before construction of the
facility. Review and approval of such plans and operating procedures shall not
relieve the user from the responsibility to modify his or her facility as
necessary to remain in continuance compliance with the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   If at any time a user is not in compliance with any prohibition or
limitations in this chapter, the facility responsible for such discharge shall
immediately notify the village so that corrective action may be taken to
protect the treatment system. In addition, a written report addressed to the
village detailing the date, time, and cause of the accidental discharge, the
quantity and characteristics of the discharge, and corrective action taken to
prevent future discharges shall be filed by the responsible user within five
days of the occurrence of the noncomplying discharge.
(Ord. 96-139, passed 8-19-1996) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever the Director finds that any person has violated or is
violating any prohibition, limitation, or provision of this chapter, the
Director may cause to be served upon such person a written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days,
for a satisfactory correction thereof. Such notice shall also state that any
person in violation of this chapter shall be liable for any resulting damages
or applicable fines.
   (B)   If the violation is not corrected by timely compliance, the Director
may order any person who causes or allows an unauthorized discharge to show
cause before the Director why service should not be terminated. A notice shall
be served on the offending party, specifying the time and place of a hearing to
be held by the Director regarding the violation, and directing the offending
party to show cause before the Director why an order should not be made
directing the termination of service. The notice of the hearing shall be served
personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) at
least ten days before the hearing. Service may be made on any agent or officer
of a corporation.
   (C)   The Director may conduct the hearing and take the evidence, or may
designate any village official or employee of the village to:
      (1)   Issue in the name of the Director notices of hearings requesting
the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence
relevant to any matter involved in any such hearings;
      (2)   Take the evidence; and
      (3)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the Director
for action thereon.
   (D)   At any public hearing, testimony taken before the Director or any
person designated by the Director must be under oath and recorded in the
minutes of the hearing.
   (E)   After the Director has reviewed the evidence, a notice may be issued
to the party responsible for the discharge directing that, following a
specified time period, the sewer service be discontinued unless adequate
treatment facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances are properly
operated, and such further orders and directives as are necessary and
appropriate.
   (F)   Any discharge in violation of the substantive provisions of this
chapter or an order of the Director shall be considered a public nuisance. If
any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes, or other wastes into the
village treatment system contrary to the substantive provisions of this chapter
or any order of the Director, the Law Director of the village shall commence an
action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief in the Common Pleas Court.
(Ord. 96-139, passed 8-19-1996) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who recklessly violates any provision of this chapter or an order
of the Director or the orders, rules and regulations issued hereunder shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not more than
$1,000, imprisoned not more than six months, or both, for each offense. Each
day on which a violation shall occur or continue shall be deemed as separate
and distinct offense. In addition to the penalties provided herein, the village
may recover reasonable attorneys’ fees, court costs, court reporters’ fees, and
other expenses of litigation by appropriate suit at law against the person
found to have violated this chapter or the orders, rules, and regulations
issued hereunder.
(Ord. 96-139, passed 8-19-1996)
CHAPTER 53: SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Section
   
53.01   Warren County Solid Waste Management Agreement adopted
Cross-reference:
   Trash collection and disposal, see §
50.066
   Trash collection and disposal rates and charges, see §§
50.102 and
50.124
   Trash containers, see §
50.065
§ 53.01 WARREN COUNTY SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT ADOPTED.
   The Warren County Solid Waste Management Agreement between the village and
the Warren County Board of Commissioners, on behalf of the Warren County Solid
Waste Management District, is hereby adopted by reference and shall be treated
as if set forth in full herein.
(Ord. 94-148, passed 11-21-1994)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
73.   MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
      
74.   EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
      
75.   BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
      
76.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
77.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
78.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Compliance with order of police officer
   
70.03   Emergency vehicles to proceed cautiously past red or stop signal
   
70.04   Exceptions generally; emergency, public safety and coroner vehicles
exempt
   
70.05   Persons riding or driving animals upon roadways
   
70.06   Prohibitions against pedestrians and slow-moving vehicles on freeways
   
70.07   Use of private property for vehicular travel
   
70.08   Names of persons damaging real property by operation of vehicle to be
provided to owner
   
70.09   Limited access highways; barriers along; vehicles to enter and leave at
designated intersections
   
70.10   Through highways
   
70.11   Officer may remove ignition key
   
70.12   Removal of vehicles after accidents
   
70.13   Toy vehicles on roadways and sidewalks
   
70.14   Vision barriers on corner lots
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.30   Obeying traffic-control devices
   
70.31   Signal lights
   
70.32   Signals over reversible lanes
   
70.33   Ambiguous or non-working traffic signals
   
70.34   Pedestrian-control signals
   
70.35   Unauthorized signs and signals prohibited
   
70.36   Alteration, defacement, or removal prohibited
   
70.37   Unauthorized possession or sale of devices
   
70.38   Signal preemption devices; prohibitions
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Jurisdiction in traffic violations, see §
33.01
   Streets and sidewalks, general regulations, see
Chapter 94
   Unauthorized use of a motor vehicle, see §
131.09
   Unclaimed and abandoned motor vehicles, see
Chapter 95
Statutory reference:
   Local traffic regulations, scope and authority, see R.C. § 4511.07
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Traffic law photo-monitoring devices, state regulations, see R.C. §§
4511.092 et seq.
   Uniform application and precedence of state traffic laws, see R.C. § 4511.06
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided, the definitions set forth in R.C. § 4501.01
shall apply to this Title, Chapter 95, and the penal laws of the municipality.
For the purpose of this Title and Chapter 95, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. Every self-propelled vehicle designed or used for
drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery, but having no provision for
carrying loads independently of such other vehicles, and used principally for
agricultural purposes.
   ALLEY. A street or highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of
lots or buildings in urban districts, and not intended for the purpose of
through vehicular traffic, and any street or highway that has been declared an
“alley” by the Legislative Authority of the municipality in which the street or
highway is located.
   ARTERIAL STREET. Any United States or state numbered route, controlled-
access highway, or other major radial or circumferential street or highway
designated by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions as part
of a major arterial system of streets or highways.
   BEACON. A highway traffic signal with one or more signal sections that
operate in a flashing mode.
   BICYCLE. Every device, other than a device that is designed solely for use
as a play vehicle by a child, that is propelled solely by human power upon
which a person may ride, and that has two or more wheels, any of which is more
than 14 inches in diameter.
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than nine passengers,
and used for the transportation of persons other than in a ridesharing
arrangement, and every motor vehicle, automobile for hire, or funeral car,
other than a taxicab or motor vehicle used in a ridesharing arrangement,
designed and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory fronting upon a street or highway,
including the street or highway, between successive intersections within the
municipality, where 50% or more of the frontage between successive
intersections is occupied by buildings in use for business, or within or
outside the municipality where 50% or more of the frontage for a distance of
300 feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for business, and the
character of the territory is indicated by official traffic-control devices.
   CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE. A motor vehicle that is designed to carry nine or
fewer passengers and is operated for hire pursuant to a prearranged contract
for the transportation of passengers on public roads and highways along a route
under the control of the person hiring the vehicle and not over a defined and
regular route. “Prearranged contract” means an agreement, made in advance of
boarding, to provide transportation from a specific location in an chauffeured
limousine. The term does not include any vehicle that is used exclusively in
the business of funeral directing.
(R.C. § 4501.01(LL))
   CHILD CARE CENTER. Has the same meaning as set forth in R.C. § 5104.01.
   COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle having motive power designed or used
for drawing other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load
thereon, or designed or used for drawing other vehicles while carrying a
portion of the other vehicles, or the load thereon, or both.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every street or highway in respect to which
owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right or
access to or from the same except at certain points only and in a manner as may
be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over the street or
highway.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   That part of a roadway at intersections ordinarily included within
the real or projected prolongation of property lines and curb lines or, in the
absence of curbs, the edges of the traversable roadway;
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere,
distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the
surface;
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this definition, there
shall not be a crosswalk where the Legislative Authority has placed signs
indicating no crossing.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a “class 1 electric bicycle”, a “class 2 electric
bicycle”, or a “class 3 electric bicycle” as defined below.
      (1)   CLASS 1 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that
provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles per hour.
      (2)   CLASS 2 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that may
provide assistance regardless of whether the rider is pedaling and is not
capable of providing assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles
per hour.
      (3)   CLASS 3 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that
provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 28 miles per hour.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Emergency vehicles of municipal, township or county
departments or public utility corporations, when identified as such as required
by law, the Director of Public Safety, or local authorities, and motor vehicles
when commandeered by a police officer.
   EXPLOSIVES. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is intended for
the purpose of producing an explosion that contains any oxidizing and
combustible units or other ingredients in such proportions, quantities, or
packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by percussion, or
by a detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause a sudden
generation of highly heated gases, such that the resultant gaseous pressures
are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects, or of
destroying life or limb. Manufactured articles shall not be held to be
explosives when the individual units contain explosives in limited quantities
of such nature or in such packing that it is impossible to procure a
simultaneous or a destructive explosion of the units, to the injury of life,
limb, or property by fire, friction, concussion, percussion, or by a detonator,
such as fixed ammunition for small arms, firecrackers, or safety fuse matches.
   EXPRESSWAY. A divided arterial highway for through traffic with full or
partial control of access with an excess of 50% of all crossroads separated in
grade.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F or less, as
determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
   FREEWAY. A divided multi-lane highway for through traffic with crossroads
separated in grade and with full control of access.
   FUNERAL ESCORT VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, including a funeral hearse, while
used to facilitate the movement of a funeral procession.
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle plus the weight of any load thereon.
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way open to
the use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular travel.
   HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle used in snow and ice removal or road
surface maintenance, including a snow plow, traffic line striper, road sweeper,
mowing machine, asphalt distributing vehicle, or other such vehicle designed
for use in specific highway maintenance activities.
   HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SIGNAL. A power-operated traffic control device by which
traffic is warned or directed to take some specific action. The term does not
include a power-operated sign, steadily illuminated pavement marker, warning
light, or steady burning electric lamp.
   HYBRID BEACON. A type of beacon that is intentionally placed in a dark mode
between periods of operation where no indications are displayed and, when in
operation, displays both steady and flashing traffic control signal
indications.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of
two highways that join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways that join at
any other angle might come into conflict. The junction of an alley or driveway
with a roadway or highway does not constitute an intersection unless the
roadway or highway at the junction is controlled by a traffic control device.
      (2)   If a highway includes two roadways that are 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway constitutes a separate intersection. If both intersecting highways
include two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of any two
roadways of such highways constitutes a separate intersection.
      (3)   At a location controlled by a traffic control signal, regardless of
the distance between the separate intersections as described in division (2) of
this definition:
         (a)   If a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk has not been designated
on the roadway within the median between the separate intersections, the two
intersections and the roadway and median constitute one intersection.
         (b)   Where a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk line is designated
on the roadway on the intersection approach, the area within the crosswalk and
any area beyond the designated stop line or yield line constitute part of the
intersection.
         (c)   Where a crosswalk is designated on a roadway on the departure
from the intersection, the intersection includes the area that extends to the
far side of the crosswalk.
   LANED HIGHWAY. A highway the roadway of which is divided into two or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. Every county, municipal, and other local board or body
having authority to adopt police regulations under the Constitution and laws of
this state.
   LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICE. Means a device weighing less than 100 pounds
that has handlebars, is propelled by an electric motor or human power, and has
an attainable speed on a paved level surface of not more than 20 miles per hour
when propelled by the electric motor.
   MEDIAN. The area between two roadways of a divided highway, measured from
edge of traveled way to edge of traveled way, but excluding turn lanes. The
width of a median may be different between intersections, between interchanges,
and at opposite approaches of the same intersection.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than muscular
power or power collected from overhead electric trolley wires, except motorized
bicycles, electric bicycles, road rollers, traction engines, power shovels,
power cranes and other equipment used in construction work, and not designed
for or employed in general highway transportation, hole-digging machinery,
well-drilling machinery, ditch-digging machinery, farm machinery, and trailers
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per
hour or less.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle, other than a tractor, having a seat or
saddle for the use of the operator and designed to travel on not more than
three wheels in contact with the ground, including but not limited to motor
vehicles known as “motor-driven cycle”, “motor scooter”, “autocycle”, “cab-
enclosed motorcycle”, or “motorcycle” without regard to weight or brake
horsepower.
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE or MOPED. Any vehicle having either two tandem wheels or
one wheel in the front and two wheels in the rear, that may be pedaled, and
that is equipped with a helper motor of not more than 50 cubic centimeters
piston displacement that produces not more than one brake horsepower and is
capable of propelling the vehicle at a speed of not greater than 20 miles per
hour on a level surface. The terms do not include an electric bicycle.
   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR. Any self-propelled vehicle designed for, and used by,
a person with a disability and that is incapable of a speed in excess of eight
miles per hour.
   MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. A type of agricultural tractor that has
two or more wheels or tires on each side of one axle at the rear of the
tractor, is designed or used for drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery,
has no provision for carrying loads independently of the drawn vehicles or
machinery, and is used principally for agricultural purposes.
   OPERATE. To cause or have caused movement of a vehicle.
   OPERATOR. Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   PARKED or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle upon a street, road, alley,
highway or public ground, whether accompanied or unaccompanied by a driver, but
does not include the temporary standing of a vehicle for the purpose of and
while actually engaged in loading or loading merchandise or passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any natural person afoot. The term includes a personal delivery
device as defined in R.C. § 4511.513 unless the context clearly suggests
otherwise.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
   POLE TRAILER. Every trailer or semitrailer attached to the towing vehicle by
means of a reach, pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing
vehicle, and ordinarily used for transporting long or irregular shaped loads
such as poles, pipes, or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining
themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or
to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   PREDICATE MOTOR VEHICLE OR TRAFFIC OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. §§ 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12, 4511.132,
4511.16, 4511.20, 4511.201, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32,
4511.33, 4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40,
4511.41, 4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451,
4511.452, 4511.46, 4511.47, 4511.48, 4511.481, 4511.49, 4511.50, 4511.511,
4511.53, 4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.56, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60,
4511.61, 4511.64, 4511.66, 4511.661, 4511.68, 4511.70, 4511.701, 4511.71,
4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, 4511.73, 4511.763, 4511.771, 4511.78, or
4511.84;
      (2)   A violation of R.C. §§ 4511.17(A)(2), 4511.51(A) through (D), or
4511.74(A);
      (3)   A violation of any provision of R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.76 for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section that contains the
provision violated;
      (4)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.214;
      (5)   A violation of a municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any section or provision set forth or described in division (1),
(2), (3), or (4) of this definition.
   PRIVATE ROAD OPEN TO PUBLIC TRAVEL. A private toll road or road, including
any adjacent sidewalks that generally run parallel to the road, within a
shopping center, airport, sports arena, or other similar business or recreation
facility that is privately owned but where the public is allowed to travel
without access restrictions. The term includes a gated toll road but does not
include a road within a private gated property where access is restricted at
all times, a parking area, a driving aisle within a parking area, or a private
grade crossing.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership used for
vehicular travel by the owner, and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Ambulances, including private ambulance companies under contract to
a municipality, township, or county, and private ambulances and nontransport
vehicles bearing license plates issued under R.C. § 4503.49;
      (2)   Motor vehicles used by public law enforcement officers or other
persons sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state;
      (3)   Any motor vehicle when properly identified as required by the
Director of Public Safety, when used in response to fire emergency calls or to
provide emergency medical service to ill or injured persons, and when operated
by a duly qualified person who is a member of a volunteer rescue service or a
volunteer fire department, and who is on duty pursuant to the rules or
directives of that service. The State Fire Marshal shall be designated by the
Director of Public Safety as the certifying agency for all public safety
vehicles described herein;
      (4)   Vehicles used by fire departments, including motor vehicles when
used by volunteer firefighters responding to emergency calls in the fire
department service when identified as required by the Director of Public
Safety;
      (5)   Any vehicle used to transport or provide emergency medical service
to an ill or injured person, when certified as a public safety vehicle, shall
be considered such a vehicle when transporting an ill or injured person to a
hospital, regardless of whether such vehicle has already passed a hospital;
      (6)   Vehicles used by the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit for the
enforcement of orders and rules of the Public Utilities Commission as specified
in R.C. § 5503.34.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property operating upon rails placed
principally on a private right-of-way.
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal, or device erected by authority of
a public body or official or by a railroad, and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine or an electric or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated by a railroad.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory, not comprising a business district,
fronting on a street or highway, including the street or highway, where, for a
distance of 300 feet or more, the frontage is improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
   RIDESHARING ARRANGEMENT. Includes the transportation of persons in a motor
vehicle where the transportation is incidental to another purpose of a
volunteer driver, and includes arrangements known as carpools, vanpools, and
buspools.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Either of the following, as the context requires:
      (1)   The right of a vehicle or pedestrian to proceed uninterruptedly in
a lawful manner in the direction in which it, he or she is moving, in
preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching from a different
direction into its, his or her path;
      (2)   A general term denoting land, property, or the interest therein,
usually in the configuration of a strip, acquired for or devoted to
transportation purposes. When used in this context, “right-of-way” includes the
roadway, shoulders or berm, ditch, and slopes extending to the right-of-way
limits under the control of the state or local authority.
   ROAD SERVICE VEHICLE. Means wreckers, utility repair vehicles, and state,
county, and municipal service vehicles equipped with visual signals by means of
flashing, rotating, or oscillating lights.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two or
more separate roadways, the term means any roadway separately, but not all the
roadways collectively.
   RURAL MAIL DELIVERY VEHICLE. Every vehicle used to deliver United States
mail on a rural mail delivery route.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, and protected or marked or indicated by adequate
signs so as to be plainly visible at all times.
   SCHOOL BUS. Every bus designed for carrying more than nine passengers which
is owned by a public, private, or governmental agency or institution of
learning, and operated for the transportation of children to or from a school
session or a school function, or owned by a private person and operated for
compensation for the transportation of children to or from a school session or
a school function; provided the term does not include a bus operated by a
municipally owned transportation system, a mass transit company operating
exclusively within the territorial limits of a municipality, or within such
limits and the territorial limits of municipalities immediately contiguous to
the municipality, nor a common passenger carrier certified by the Public
Utilities Commission unless the bus is devoted exclusively to the
transportation of children to and from a school session or a school function,
and the term does not include a van or bus used by a licensed child care center
or type A family child care home to transport children from the child care
center or type A family child care home to a school if the van or bus does not
have more than 15 children in the van or bus at any time.
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
with another and separate motor vehicle so that in operation a part of its own
weight or that of its load, or both, rests upon and is carried by another
vehicle.
   SHARED-USE PATH. A bikeway outside the traveled way and physically separated
from motorized vehicular traffic by an open space or barrier and either within
the highway right-of-way or within an independent alignment. A shared-use path
also may be used by pedestrians, including skaters, joggers, users of manual
and motorized wheelchairs, and other authorized motorized and non-motorized
users. A shared-use path does not include any trail that is intended to be used
primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar uses,
or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically been
reserved for non-motorized use.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
line of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STANDING. When prohibited, means any halting of a vehicle, even momentarily,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic control device.
   STATE HIGHWAY. A highway under the jurisdiction of the Department of
Transportation, outside the limits of municipalities, provided that the
authority conferred upon the Director of Transportation in R.C. § 5511.01 to
erect state highway route markers and signs directing traffic shall not be
modified by R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.79 and 4511.99.
   STATE ROUTE. Every highway which is designated with an official state route
number and so marked.
   STOP. When required, means a complete cessation of movement.
   STOP INTERSECTION. Any intersection at one or more entrances of which stop
signs are erected.
   STOPPING. When prohibited, means any halting of a vehicle, even momentarily,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic control device.
   STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way open to the
use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular travel.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway as provided in R.C. § 4511.65, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   THRUWAY. A through highway whose entire roadway is reserved for through
traffic and on which roadway parking is prohibited.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other devices, either singly or together, while using for purposes of travel
any highway or private road open to public travel.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. A flagger, sign, signal, marking, or other device
used to regulate, warn, or guide traffic, placed on, over, or adjacent to a
street, highway, private road open to public travel, pedestrian facility, or
shared-use path by authority of a public agency or official having
jurisdiction, or, in the case of a private road open to public travel, by
authority of the private owner or private official having jurisdiction.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any highway traffic signal by which traffic is
alternately directed to stop and permitted to proceed.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
wholly on its own structure, and for being drawn by a motor vehicle, including
any vehicle when formed by or operated as a combination of a semitrailer and a
vehicle of the dolly type, such as that commonly known as a trailer dolly, a
vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production
materials between a local place of storage or supply and the farm when drawn or
towed on a street or highway at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour and a
vehicle designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of
storage and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a
street or highway for a distance of more than ten miles or at a speed of more
than 25 miles per hour.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers, designed and
used to carry property.
   TYPE A FAMILY CHILD CARE HOME. Has the same meaning as set forth in R.C. §
5104.01.
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street or
highway which is built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or
dwelling houses situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of
one-quarter of a mile or more, and the character of the territory is indicated
by official traffic-control devices.
   VEHICLE. Every device, including a motorized bicycle and an electric
bicycle, in, upon, or by which any person or property may be transported or
drawn upon a highway, except that the term does not include any motorized
wheelchair, any electric personal assistive mobility device, any low-speed
micromobility device, any personal delivery device as defined in R.C. §
4511.513, any device that is moved by power collected from overhead electric
trolley wires or that is used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, or
any device, other than a bicycle, that is moved by human power.
   WASTE COLLECTION VEHICLE. A vehicle used in the collection of garbage,
refuse, trash, or recyclable materials.
(R.C. § 4511.01)
§ 70.02 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDER OF POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any police officer invested with authority to direct, control, or regulate
traffic.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle so as willfully to elude or
flee a police officer after receiving a visible or audible signal from a police
officer to bring the person’s motor vehicle to a stop.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to comply
with an order or signal of a police officer.
      (2)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (C)(4) and (C)(5) of this section,
a violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (C)(5) of this section, a violation
of division (B) of this section is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier of fact finds by proof
beyond a reasonable doubt that in committing the offense, the offender was
fleeing immediately after the commission of a felony.
      (5)   (a)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier
of fact finds any of the following by proof beyond a reasonable doubt:
            1.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender was a
proximate cause of serious physical harm to persons or property.
            2.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender caused a
substantial risk of serious physical harm to persons or property.
         (b)   If a police officer pursues an offender who is violating
division (B) of this section and division (C)(5)(a) of this section applies,
the sentencing court, in determining the seriousness of an offender’s conduct
for purposes of sentencing the offender for a violation of division (B) of this
section, shall consider, along with the factors set forth in R.C. §§ 2929.12
and 2929.13 that are required to be considered, all of the following:
            1.   The duration of the pursuit;
            2.   The distance of the pursuit;
            3.   The rate of speed at which the offender operated the motor
vehicle during the pursuit;
            4.   Whether the offender failed to stop for traffic lights or stop
signs during the pursuit;
            5.   The number of traffic lights or stop signs for which the
offender failed to stop during the pursuit;
            6.   Whether the offender operated the motor vehicle during the
pursuit without lighted lights during a time when lighted lights are required;
            7.   Whether the offender committed a moving violation during the
pursuit;
            8.   The number of moving violations the offender committed during
the pursuit;
            9.   Any other relevant factors indicating that the offender’s
conduct is more serious than conduct normally constituting the offense.
   (D)   In addition to any other sanction imposed for a violation of division
(A) of this section or a misdemeanor violation of division (B) of this section,
the court shall impose a class five suspension from the range specified in R.C.
§ 4510.02(A)(5). If the offender previously has been found guilty of an offense
under this section or under R.C. § 2921.331 or any other substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, in addition to any other sanction imposed for
the offense, the court shall impose a class one suspension as described in R.C.
§ 4510.02(A)(1). The court may grant limited driving privileges to the offender
on a suspension imposed for a misdemeanor violation of this section as set
forth in R.C. § 4510.021. No judge shall suspend any portion of the suspension
under a class one suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege
required by this division.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      MOVING VIOLATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2743.70.
      POLICE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F))
Cross-reference:
   Resisting arrest, see §
136.08
§ 70.03 EMERGENCY VEHICLES TO PROCEED CAUTIOUSLY PAST RED OR STOP SIGNAL.
   (A)   The driver of any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, upon approaching a red or stop signal or any
stop sign, shall slow down as necessary for safety to traffic, but may proceed
cautiously past the red or stop sign or signal with due regard for the safety
of all persons using the street or highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.03)
§ 70.04 EXCEPTIONS GENERALLY; EMERGENCY, PUBLIC SAFETY AND CORONER VEHICLES
EXEMPT.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code, except for §§
73.01 and
73.02, do not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment
while actually engaged in work upon the surface of a highway within an area
designated by traffic-control devices, but apply to those persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from such work.
   (B)   The driver of a highway maintenance vehicle owned by this state or any
political subdivision of this state, while the driver is engaged in the
performance of official duties upon a street or highway, provided the highway
maintenance vehicle is equipped with flashing lights and such other markings as
are required by law and such lights are in operation when the driver and
vehicle are so engaged, shall be exempt from criminal prosecution for
violations of R.C. §§ 4511.22, 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30,
4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.66, and 4513.02, and R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, and any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not exempt a driver of a highway maintenance
vehicle from civil liability arising from a violation of R.C. §§ 4511.22,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35,
4511.66, or 4513.02 or R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   This section does not exempt a driver of a vehicle who is not a
state employee and who is engaged in the transport of highway maintenance
equipment from criminal liability for a violation of R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   As used in this section, ENGAGED IN THE PERFORMANCE OF OFFICIAL DUTIES
includes driving a highway maintenance vehicle to and from the manufacturer or
vehicle maintenance provider and transporting a highway maintenance vehicle,
equipment, or materials to and from a work location.
(R.C. § 4511.04)
   (E)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.12, 4511.13, 4511.131, 4511.132,
4511.14, 4511.202, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25, 4511.26,
4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.34,
4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41, 4511.42,
4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59,
4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.62, 4511.66, 4511.68, 4511.681, and 4511.69, and any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle if the emergency vehicle or public
safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle and if the driver of the vehicles is giving an audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle, or bell. This section does not relieve the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.041)
   (F)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29,
4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, and
4511.66, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to
a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle
in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. This division does not relieve a coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.042)
§ 70.05 PERSONS RIDING OR DRIVING ANIMALS UPON ROADWAYS.
   Every person riding, driving, or leading an animal upon a roadway is subject
to the provisions of this traffic code, applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except those provisions of this traffic code which by their nature are
inapplicable.
(R.C. § 4511.05)
§ 70.06 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST PEDESTRIANS AND SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES ON FREEWAYS.
   (A)   No person, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, shall:
      (1)   As a pedestrian, occupy any space within the limits of the right-
of-way of a freeway, except: in a rest area; on a facility that is separated
from the roadway and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately
marked for pedestrian use; in the performance of public works or official
duties; as a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown of a
motor vehicle; or to obtain assistance;
      (2)   Occupy any space within the limits of the right-of-way of a
freeway, with: an animal- drawn vehicle; a ridden or led animal; herded
animals; a pushcart; a bicycle, except on a facility that is separated from the
roadway and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately marked
for bicycle use; an electric bicycle; a bicycle with motor attached; a motor-
driven cycle with a motor which produces not to exceed five brake horsepower;
an agricultural tractor; farm machinery; except in the performance of public
works or official duties.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.051)
Statutory reference:
   Designation of a freeway, see R.C. § 4511.011
§ 70.07 USE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY FOR VEHICULAR TRAVEL.
   The provisions of this traffic code do not prevent the owner of real
property, used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel by permission of
the owner and not as a matter of right, from prohibiting such use or from
requiring additional conditions to those specified in this traffic code, or
otherwise regulating such use as may seem best to the owner.
(R.C. § 4511.08)
§ 70.08 NAMES OF PERSONS DAMAGING REAL PROPERTY BY OPERATION OF VEHICLE TO BE
PROVIDED TO OWNER.
   (A)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 4501.01.
   (B)   If damage is caused to real property by the operation of a motor
vehicle in, or during the, violation of any section of the Ohio Revised Code or
of any municipal ordinance, the law enforcement agency that investigates the
case, upon request of the real property owner, shall provide the owner with the
names of the persons who are charged with the commission of the offense. If a
request for the names is made, the agency shall provide the names as soon as
possible after the persons are charged with the offense.
   (C)   The personnel of law enforcement agencies who act pursuant to division
(B) of this section in good faith are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from their actions taken pursuant to that division. Political
subdivisions and the state are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from the actions of personnel of their law enforcement
agencies if the personnel have immunity under this division.
(R.C. § 2935.28)
§ 70.09 LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAYS; BARRIERS ALONG; VEHICLES TO ENTER AND LEAVE AT
DESIGNATED INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall cut, injure, remove, or destroy
any fence or other barrier designed and erected to prevent traffic from
entering or leaving a limited access highway without the permission of the
Director of Transportation, except in a case of emergency where life or
property is in danger. No person, firm or corporation shall cause a vehicle of
any character to enter or leave a limited access highway at any point other
than intersections designated by the Director for such purposes, except in a
case of emergency where life or property is in danger.
(R.C. § 3767.201)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3767.99(D))
§ 70.10 THROUGH HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   All state routes are hereby designated as through highways, provided
that stop signs, yield signs, or traffic-control signals shall be erected at
all intersections with such through highways by the Department of
Transportation as to highways under its jurisdiction and by local authorities
as to highways under their jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this
section. Where two or more state routes that are through highways intersect,
and no traffic-control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall
be erected at one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local
authorities having jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
Whenever the Director of Transportation determines on the basis of an
engineering and traffic investigation that stop signs are necessary to stop
traffic on a through highway for safe and efficient operation, nothing in this
section shall be construed to prevent such installations. When circumstances
warrant, the Director also may omit stop signs on roadways intersecting through
highways under his or her jurisdiction. Before the Director either installs or
removes a stop sign under this division, he or she shall give notice, in
writing, of that proposed action to the affected local authority at least 30
days before installing or removing the stop sign.
   (B)   Other streets or highways, or portions thereof, are hereby designated
as through highways if they are within the municipality, if they have a
continuous length of more than one mile between the limits of the street or
highway or portion thereof, and if they have stop or yield signs or traffic-
control signals at the entrances of the majority of intersecting streets or
highways. For purposes of this section, the limits of the street or highway, or
portion thereof, shall be the municipal corporation line, the physical terminus
of the street or highway, or any point on the streets or highway at which
vehicular traffic thereon is required by regulatory signs to stop or yield to
traffic on the intersecting street, provided, that in residence districts, the
municipality may by ordinance designate such street or highway, or portion
thereof, not to be a through highway and thereafter the affected residence
district shall be indicated by official traffic-control devices. Where two or
more through highways designated under this division intersect and no traffic-
control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall be erected at
one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local authorities having
jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
   (C)   The Department or local authorities having jurisdiction need not erect
stop signs at intersections they find to be so constructed as to permit traffic
to safely enter a through highway without coming to a stop. Signs shall be
erected at such intersections indicating that the operator of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to or merge with all traffic proceeding on the through
highway.
   (D)   Local authorities, with reference to highways under their
jurisdiction, may designate additional through highways, and shall erect stop
signs, yield signs, or traffic-control signals at all streets and highways
intersecting such through highways, or may designate any intersection as a stop
or yield intersection, and shall erect like signs at one or more entrances to
the intersection.
(R.C. § 4511.65)
§ 70.11 OFFICER MAY REMOVE IGNITION KEY.
   A law enforcement officer may remove the ignition key left in the ignition
switch of an unlocked and unattended motor vehicle parked on a street or
highway. The officer removing the key shall place notification upon the vehicle
detailing his or her name and badge number, the place where the key may be
reclaimed, and the procedure for reclaiming the key. The key shall be returned
to the owner of the motor vehicle upon presentation of proof of ownership.
(R.C. § 4549.05)
§ 70.12 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES AFTER ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   If a motor vehicle accident occurs on any highway, public street, or
other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel and if any
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that has been damaged or spilled as
a result of the motor vehicle accident is blocking the highway, street, or
other property or is otherwise endangering public safety, a public safety
official may do either of the following without the consent of the owner but
with the approval of the law enforcement agency conducting any investigation of
the accident:
      (1)   Remove, or order the removal of, the motor vehicle if the motor
vehicle is unoccupied, cargo, or personal property from the portion of the
highway, public street, or property ordinarily used for vehicular travel on the
highway, public street, or other property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel.
      (2)   If the motor vehicle is a commercial motor vehicle, allow the owner
or operator of the vehicle the opportunity to arrange for the removal of the
motor vehicle within a period of time specified by the public safety official.
If the public safety official determines that the motor vehicle cannot be
removed within the specified period of time, the public safety official shall
remove or order the removal of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, the
Department of Transportation, any employee of the Department of Transportation,
or a public safety official who authorizes or participates in the removal of
any unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by
division (A) of this section, regardless of whether the removal is executed by
a private towing service, is not liable for civil damages for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that results from the removal of that
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property. Further, except as
provided in division (B)(2) of this section, if a public safety official
authorizes, employs, or arranges to have a private towing service remove any
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by division
(A) of this section, that private towing service is not liable for civil
damages for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that results from
the removal of that unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   Any person or entity involved in the removal of an unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property pursuant to division (A) of this
section if that removal causes or contributes to the release of a hazardous
material or to structural damage to the roadway;
         (b)   A private towing service that was not authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to remove an unoccupied motor vehicle,
cargo, or personal property under this section;
         (c)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(d) of this section, a
private towing service that was authorized, employed, or arranged by a public
safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo,
or personal property but the private towing service performed the removal in a
negligent manner;
         (d)   A private towing service that was authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that was endangering public safety
but the private towing service performed the removal in a reckless manner.
   (C)   As used in divisions (A) and (B) of this section:
      HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.232.
      PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICIAL. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The sheriff of the county, or the chief of a law enforcement
agency in the municipal corporation, township, port authority, conservancy
district, or township or joint police district, in which the accident occurred;
         (b)   A state highway patrol trooper;
         (c)   The chief of the fire department having jurisdiction where the
accident occurred;
         (d)   A duly authorized subordinate acting on behalf of an official
specified in divisions (a) to (c) of this definition.
(R.C. § 4513.66)
   (D)   If a towing service is removing a motor vehicle, and the removal was
not authorized under R.C. §§ 4513.60, 4513.601, 4513.61, or 4513.66, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, prior to removing the motor
vehicle, the towing service shall provide a written estimate of the price for
the removal to the operator of the motor vehicle, if requested.
   (E)   The towing service shall ensure that any estimate provided under
division (D) of this section includes the fees, services to be rendered, and
destination of the vehicle.
   (F)   If a towing service fails to provide a written estimate as required by
this section, the towing service shall not charge fees for the towing and
storage of the motor vehicle that exceed 25% of any applicable fees established
by the public utilities commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25(B)(4)
or, if the vehicle was towed within a municipal corporation that has
established vehicle removal and storage fees, 25% of the fees established by
the municipal corporation.
   (G)   Any storage facility that accepts towed vehicles shall conspicuously
post a notice at the entrance to the storage facility that states the
limitation on fees established under division (F) of this section.
(R.C. § 4513.68)
§ 70.13 TOY VEHICLES ON ROADWAYS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person riding upon any coaster, roller skates, sled, toy vehicle or
other similar device shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a street
on a crosswalk, and when so crossing such person shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
This section shall not apply to any street set aside as a play street.
   (B)   No person shall operate or ride upon any toy vehicle upon any public
right-of-way, including streets, alleys and sidewalks within the business
district.
(Ord. 90-113, passed 8-6-1990) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.14 VISION BARRIERS ON CORNER LOTS.
   (A)   For the purposes of aiding traffic safety, no owner of a corner lot in
the village shall maintain any shrubbery, wall, or other obstruction on such
corner lot in a manner which constitutes a vision barrier to traffic.
   (B)   The Department of Safety shall inspect, or cause to be inspected,
every intersection in the village to determine whether a vision barrier exists.
If a vision barrier is found on a corner lot, the Department of Safety shall
report this fact to the owner of such lot. If the vision barrier is not
corrected to comply with this section within ten days after such notice, the
owner shall be deemed to be in violation of this section.
(Ord. 505, passed 5-17-1977) Penalty, see §
70.99
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.30 OBEYING TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   No pedestrian or driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
instructions of any traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code, unless at the time otherwise directed by a
police officer.
      (2)   No provision of this traffic code for which signs are required
shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular
section of this traffic code does not state that signs are required, that
section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
(R.C. § 4511.12(A))
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, any operator
of a commercial motor vehicle, upon approaching a scale location established
for the purpose of determining the weight of the vehicle and its load, shall
comply with any traffic control device or the order of a peace officer
directing the vehicle to proceed to be weighed or otherwise inspected.
      (2)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle, upon bypassing a scale
location in accordance with division (C) of this section, shall comply with an
order of a peace officer to stop the vehicle to verify the use and operation of
an electronic clearance device.
   (C)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle that is equipped with an
electronic clearance device authorized by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4549.081 may bypass a scale location, regardless of
the instruction of a traffic control device to enter the scale facility, if
either of the following apply:
      (1)   The in-cab transponder displays a green light or other affirmative
visual signal and also sounds an affirmative audible signal;
      (2)   Any other criterion established by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol is met.
   (D)   Any peace officer may order the operator of a commercial motor vehicle
that bypasses a scale location to stop the vehicle to verify the use and
operation of an electronic clearance device.
   (E)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE means any
combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating or an actual gross
vehicle weight of more than 10,000 pounds if the vehicle is used in interstate
or intrastate commerce to transport property and also means any vehicle that is
transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is required pursuant to
49 C.F.R. parts 100 through 180.
(R.C. § 4511.121(A) - (C), (E))
   (F)   No person shall use an electronic clearance device if the device or
its use is not in compliance with rules of the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol.
(R.C. § 4549.081(B))
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. If
the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting activity
is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the offender is
subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.12(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) of this
section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender commits the offense while
distracted and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the
commission of the offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine
established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.121(D))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.081(C))
Statutory reference:
   Placing traffic-control devices on state highways, permission required, see
R.C. § 4511.10
   Traffic-control devices to conform to the state manual and specifications,
see R.C. § 4511.11
   Uniform system of traffic-control devices, see R.C. § 4511.09
§ 70.31 SIGNAL LIGHTS.
   Highway traffic signal indications for vehicles and pedestrians shall have
the following meanings:
   (A)   Steady green signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal indication
is permitted to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-turn
movement except as such movement is modified by a lane-use sign, turn
prohibition sign, lane marking, roadway design, separate turn signal
indication, or other traffic control device. Such vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the
right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
movement to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching
from the opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the
intersection.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal indication, displayed
alone or in combination with another signal indication, is permitted to
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow, or such other movement as is permitted by other indications displayed at
the same time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left
or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the
following:
         (a)   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
         (b)   Other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   (a)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication,
as provided in R.C. § 4511.14, pedestrians facing a circular green signal
indication are permitted to proceed across the roadway within any marked or
unmarked associated crosswalk. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of- way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection or so close as to create an immediate
hazard at the time that the green signal indication is first displayed.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing a green arrow signal indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or other traffic control
device, shall not cross the roadway.
   (B)   Steady yellow signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow signal indication
is thereby warned that the related green movement or the related flashing arrow
movement is being terminated or that a steady red signal indication will be
exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter the
intersection. The provisions governing vehicular operation under the movement
being terminated shall continue to apply while the steady circular yellow
signal indication is displayed.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow arrow signal indication is
thereby warned that the related green arrow movement or the related flashing
arrow movement is being terminated. The provisions governing vehicular
operation under the movement being terminated shall continue to apply while the
steady yellow arrow signal indication is displayed.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal
indication, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, shall not start to
cross the roadway.
   (C)   Steady red signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal
indication, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted
by another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, traffic shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before
entering the intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication
to proceed is displayed except as provided in divisions (C)(1), (C)(2), and (C)
(3) of this section.
         (b)   Except when a traffic control device is in place prohibiting a
turn on red or a steady red arrow signal indication is displayed, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal indication is permitted, after
stopping, to enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-
way street into a one-way street. The right to proceed with the turn shall be
subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a stop
sign.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow signal indication
shall not enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by the arrow
and, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted by
another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before entering the
intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication or other
traffic control device permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is
displayed.
         (b)   When a traffic control device is in place permitting a turn on a
steady red arrow signal indication, vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow
indication is permitted, after stopping, to enter the intersection to turn
right, or to turn left from a one-way street into a one-way street. The right
to proceed with the turn shall be limited to the direction indicated by the
arrow and shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a
stop at a stop sign.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, pedestrians facing
a steady circular red or steady red arrow signal indication shall not enter the
roadway.
      (4)   Local authorities by ordinance, or the Director of Transportation
on state highways, may prohibit a right or a left turn against a steady red
signal at any intersection, which shall be effective when signs giving notice
thereof are posted at the intersection.
   (D)   Flashing green signal indication. A flashing green signal indication
has no meaning and shall not be used.
   (E)   Flashing yellow signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing circular yellow signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter
the intersection to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-
turn movement except as such movement is modified by lane-use signs, turn
prohibition signs, lane markings, roadway design, separate turn signal
indications, or other traffic control devices. Such vehicular traffic,
including vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall
yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing yellow arrow signal indication, displayed alone or in combination
with another signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or other such
movement as is permitted by other signal indications displayed at the same
time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left or
making a u-turn, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing any flashing yellow signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of- way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing yellow signal indication is first displayed.
      (4)   When a flashing circular yellow signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory or warning requirements of the other traffic
control device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently
applicable.
   (F)   Flashing red signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing circular red signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line; but if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. The right to proceed
shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a
stop sign.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing any flashing red signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of- way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing red signal indication is first displayed.
      (3)   When a flashing circular red signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory requirements of the other traffic control
device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently applicable.
Use of this signal indication shall be limited to supplementing stop, do not
enter, or wrong way signs, and to applications where compliance with the
supplemented traffic control device requires a stop at a designated point.
   (G)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of
any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
   (H)   This section does not apply at railroad grade- crossings. Conduct of
drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed by
R.C. §§ 4511.61 and 4511.62.
(R.C. § 4511.13)
§ 70.32 SIGNALS OVER REVERSIBLE LANES.
   The meanings of lane-use control signal indications are as follows:
   (A)   A steady downward green arrow. A road user is permitted to drive in
the lane over which the arrow signal indication is located.
   (B)   A steady yellow “X”. A road user is to prepare to vacate the lane over
which the signal indication is located because a lane control change is being
made to a steady red “X” signal indication.
   (C)   A steady white two-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, but not
for through travel, with the understanding that common use of the lane by
oncoming road users for left turns also is permitted.
   (D)   A steady white one-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, without
opposing turns in the same lane, but not for through travel.
   (E)   A steady red “X”. A road user is not permitted to use the lane over
which the signal indication is located and that this signal indication shall
modify accordingly the meaning of other traffic controls present.
(R.C. § 4511.131)
§ 70.33 AMBIGUOUS OR NON-WORKING TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle who approaches an intersection where traffic
is controlled by traffic control signals shall do all of the following if the
signal facing the driver exhibits no colored lights or colored lighted arrows,
exhibits a combination of such lights or arrows that fails to clearly indicate
the assignment of right-of-way, or, if the vehicle is a bicycle or an electric
bicycle, the signals are otherwise malfunctioning due to the failure of a
vehicle detector to detect the presence of the bicycle or electric bicycle:
      (1)   Stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if none, stop
before entering the intersection;
      (2)   Yield the right-of-way to all vehicles in the intersection or
approaching on an intersecting road, if the vehicles will constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways;
      (3)   Exercise ordinary care while proceeding through the intersection.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.132)
§ 70.34 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“don’t walk”, or the symbol of a walking person or an upraised palm are in
place, these signals shall indicate the following instructions:
   (A)   A steady walking person signal indication, which symbolizes “walk”,
means that a pedestrian facing the signal indication is permitted to start to
cross the roadway in the direction of the signal indication, possibly in
conflict with turning vehicles. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the walking person
signal indication is first shown.
   (B)   A flashing upraised hand signal indication, which symbolizes “don’t
walk”, means that a pedestrian shall not start to cross the roadway in the
direction of the signal indication, but that any pedestrian who has already
started to cross on a steady walking person signal indication shall proceed to
the far side of the traveled way of the street or highway, unless otherwise
directed by a traffic control device to proceed only to the median of a divided
highway or only to some other island or pedestrian refuge area.
   (C)   A steady upraised hand signal indication means that a pedestrian shall
not enter the roadway in the direction of the signal indication.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the continued
use of pedestrian control signals utilizing the word “wait” if those signals
were installed prior to March 28, 1985.
   (E)   A flashing walking person signal indication has no meaning and shall
not be used.
(R.C. § 4511.14)
§ 70.35 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of
any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to
be, is an imitation of, or resembles a traffic-control device or railroad sign
or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or hides from
view or interferes with the effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal, and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any
public authority permit, upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising. This section does not prohibit either the
erection upon private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for traffic-
control devices, or the erection upon private property of traffic-control
devices by the owner of real property in accordance with R.C. §§ 4511.211 and
4511.432.
      (2)   Every prohibited sign, signal, marking, or device is a public
nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway may remove the
same or cause it to be removed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.16)
§ 70.36 ALTERATION, DEFACEMENT, OR REMOVAL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, without lawful authority, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly
tamper with any traffic-control device, any railroad sign or signal, or any
inscription, shield, or insignia on the device, sign, or signal, or any part of
the device, sign, or signal;
      (2)   Knowingly drive upon or over any freshly applied pavement marking
material on the surface of a roadway while the marking material is in an
undried condition, and is marked by flags, markers, signs, or other devices
intended to protect it;
      (3)   Knowingly move, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper
with a manhole cover.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of
this section causes serious physical harm to property that is owned, leased, or
controlled by a state or local authority, the offender is guilty of a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within
one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.17)
§ 70.37 UNAUTHORIZED POSSESSION OR SALE OF DEVICES.
   (A)   As used in this section, TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE means any sign,
traffic control signal or other device conforming to and placed or erected in
accordance with the manual adopted under R.C. § 4511.09 by authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic, including signs denoting the names of streets and
highways, but does not mean any pavement marking.
   (B)   No individual shall buy or otherwise possess, or sell, a traffic
control device, except when one of the following applies:
      (1)   In the course of the individual’s employment by the state or a
local authority for the express or implied purpose of manufacturing, providing,
erecting, moving or removing such a traffic control device;
      (2)   In the course of the individual’s employment by any manufacturer of
traffic control devices other than a state or local authority;
      (3)   For the purpose of demonstrating the design and function of a
traffic control device to state or local officials;
      (4)   When the traffic control device has been purchased from the state
or a local authority at a sale of property that is no longer needed or is unfit
for use; or
      (5)   When the traffic control device has been properly purchased from a
manufacturer for use on private property and the person possessing the device
has a sales receipt for the device or other acknowledgment of sale issued by
the manufacturer.
   (C)   This section does not preclude, and shall not be construed as
precluding, prosecution for theft in violation of R.C. § 2913.02, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or for receiving stolen property
in violation of R.C. § 2913.51, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.18)
§ 70.38 SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICES; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall possess a portable signal preemption device.
      (2)   No person shall use a portable signal preemption device to affect
the operation of a traffic- control device.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the following
persons and division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any of the
following persons when responding to an emergency call:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 109.71(A)(1), (A)(12), (A)
(14), or (A)(19);
      (2)   A state highway patrol officer;
      (3)   A person while occupying a public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01(E)(1), (E)(3), or (E)(4).
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, PORTABLE SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICE means a
device that, if activated by a person, is capable of changing a traffic-control
signal to green out of sequence.
(R.C. § 4511.031)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code for which no
penalty otherwise is provided in the section violated is guilty of one of the
following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section, a minor misdemeanor;
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
      (3)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.99)
   (B)   Violations committed while distracted.
      (1)   As used in this section and each section referenced in division (B)
(2) of this section, all of the following apply:
         (a)   “Distracted” means doing either of the following while operating
a vehicle:
2020 S-1
   General Provisions   32A
            1.   Using an electronic wireless communications device, as defined
in R.C. § 4511.204, in violation of that section;
            2.   Engaging in any activity that is not necessary to the
operation of a vehicle and impairs, or reasonably would be expected to impair,
the ability of the operator to drive the vehicle safely.
         (b)   “Distracted” does not include operating a motor vehicle while
wearing an earphone or earplug over or in both ears at the same time. A person
who so wears earphones or earplugs may be charged with a violation of R.C. §
4511.84, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (c)   “Distracted” does not include conducting any activity while
operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or on behalf of a utility,
provided that the driver of the vehicle is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage, or a circumstance affecting the health or safety of individuals.
As used in this division (B)(1)(c):
            UTILITY. An entity specified in R.C. § 4905.03(A), (C), (D), (E),
or (G).
            UTILITY SERVICE VEHICLE. A vehicle owned or operated by a utility.
      (2)   If an offender violates R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12,
4511.121, 4511.132, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25,
4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33,
4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41,
4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451, 4511.46, 4511.47,
4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.64,
4511.71, 4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, or 4511.73, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
violation, the offender is subject to the applicable penalty for the violation
and, notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, is subject to an additional fine of not
more than $100 as follows:
         (a)   1.   Subject to Traffic Rule 13, if a law enforcement officer
issues an offender a ticket, citation, or summons for a violation of any of the
aforementioned sections of the Ohio Revised Code, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that indicates that the offender was distracted
while committing the violation and that the distracting activity was a
contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the offender may enter
a written plea of guilty and waive the offender’s right to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial provided that the offender pays the total
amount of the fine established for the violation and pays the additional fine
of $100.
            2.   In lieu of payment of the additional fine of $100, the
offender instead may elect to attend a distracted driving safety course, the
duration and contents of which shall be established by the Ohio Director of
Public Safety. If the offender attends and successfully completes the course,
the offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of $100, so long as the offender submits to the court both the
offender’s payment in full and such written evidence within 90 days of the
underlying violation that resulted in the imposition of the additional fine
under division (B) of this section.
         (b)   1.   If the offender appears in person to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial and the offender pleads guilty to or is
convicted of the violation, the court, in addition to all other penalties
provided by law, may impose the applicable penalty for the violation and may
impose the additional fine of not more than $100.
            2.   If the court imposes upon the offender the applicable penalty
for the violation and an additional fine of not more than $100, the court shall
inform the offender that, in lieu of payment of the additional fine of not more
than $100, the offender instead may elect to attend the distracted driving
safety course described in division (B)(2)(a) of this section. If the offender
elects the course option and attends and successfully completes the course, the
offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of not more than $100, so long as the offender submits to the
court the offender’s payment and such written evidence within 90 days of the
underlying violation that resulted in the imposition of the additional fine
under division (B) of this section.
      (3)   If a law enforcement officer issues an offender a ticket, citation,
or summons for a violation of any of the sections of the Revised Code listed in
division (B)(2) of this section that indicates that the offender was distracted
while committing the violation and that the distracting activity was a
contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the officer shall do
both of the following:
         (a)   Report the issuance of the ticket, citation, or summons to the
officer's law enforcement agency;
         (b)   Ensure that such report indicates the offender's race.
(R.C. § 4511.991)
   (C)   Whoever is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor shall be sentenced in accordance with §
130.99.
Cross-reference:
   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor, see §
130.18
   Multiple sentences, see §
130.19
Statutory reference:
   Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
CHAPTER 71: LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
Motor Vehicle Licensing
   
71.01   Display of license plates or validation stickers; registration
   
71.02   Improper use of noncommercial motor vehicle
   
71.03   Operating motor vehicle ordered immobilized; forfeiture
   
71.04   Operation or sale without certificate of title
   
71.05   Display of certificate of registration
   
71.06   Use of unauthorized plates
   
71.07   Operating without dealer or manufacturer license plates
Driver’s Licenses
   
71.20   Prohibited acts
   
71.21   Permitting minor to operate vehicle prohibited; temporary instruction
permit; probationary license
   
71.22   License required as driver or commercial driver on public or private
property; nonresident exemption
   
71.23   Employment of a minor to operate a taxicab prohibited
   
71.24   Restriction against owner lending vehicle for use of another
   
71.25   Suspension of driver’s licenses; license suspended by court of record
   
71.26   Display of license
   
71.27   Prohibition against false statements
   
71.28   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction
   
71.29   Operating motor vehicle or motorcycle without valid license
   
71.30   Driving under OVI suspension
   
71.31   Driving under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation;
driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension
   
71.32   Failure to reinstate license
Commercial Driver’s Licenses
   
71.45   Definitions
   
71.46   Use of actual gross weight in lieu of rating
   
71.47   Prohibited acts
   
71.48   Prerequisites to operation of commercial motor vehicle
   
71.49   Physical qualification to operate commercial motor vehicles
   
71.50   Criminal offenses
   
71.51   Application of federal regulations
   
71.52   Employment of drivers of commercial vehicles
   
71.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Commercial driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4506
   Driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4507
   Motor vehicle licensing, see R.C. Chapter 4504
   Municipal motor vehicle license tax, see R.C. § 4504.06
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Proof of financial responsibility required; civil penalties; peace officers
as agents of Registrar of Motor Vehicles; procedures and rules, see R.C. §§
   Suspension and revocation of driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4510
   Suspension of driver’s licenses; municipal power to suspend for a period not
to exceed time permitted or required by state law, see R.C. § 4510.05
MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSING
§ 71.01 DISPLAY OF LICENSE PLATES OR VALIDATION STICKERS; REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person who is the owner or operator of a motor vehicle shall
fail to display in plain view on the rear of the motor vehicle a license plate
that displays the distinctive number and registration mark assigned to the
motor vehicle by the Ohio Director of Public Safety, including any county
identification sticker and any validation sticker when required by and issued
under R.C. §§ 4503.19 and 4503.191. However, a commercial tractor shall display
the license plate on the front of the commercial tractor.
      (2)   The license plate shall be securely fastened so as not to swing,
and shall not be covered by any material that obstructs its visibility.
      (3)   No person to whom a temporary motor vehicle license registration
has been issued for the use of a motor vehicle under R.C. § 4503.182, and no
operator of that motor vehicle, shall fail to display the temporary motor
vehicle license registration in plain view from the rear of the vehicle either
in the rear window or on an external rear surface of the motor vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall cover a temporary motor vehicle license
registration by any material that obstructs its visibility.
(R.C. § 4503.21(A))
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by R.C. §§ 4503.103, 4503.107, 4503.173,
4503.41, 4503.43, and 4503.46, no person who is the owner or chauffeur of a
motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways shall fail
to file annually the application for registration or to pay the tax therefor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(A))
   (C)    (1)   Within 30 days of becoming a resident of this state, any person
who owns a motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways
shall register the vehicle in this state. If such a person fails to register a
vehicle owned by the person, the person shall not operate any motor vehicle in
this state under a license issued by another state.
      (2)   For purposes of division (C)(1) of this section, RESIDENT means any
person to whom any of the following applies:
         (a)   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         (b)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to
be a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C.
§ 4507.01.
(R.C. § 4503.111(A), (C))
   (D)   Upon the transfer of ownership of a motor vehicle, the registration of
the motor vehicle expires, and the original owner immediately shall remove the
license plates from the motor vehicle, except as otherwise provided in R.C. §
4503.12.
(R.C. § 4503.12(A))
   (E)   No person shall operate or drive upon the highways of this
municipality a motor vehicle acquired from a former owner who has registered
the motor vehicle, while the motor vehicle displays the distinctive number or
identification mark assigned to it upon its original registration.
(R.C. § 4549.11(A))
   (F)   No person who is the owner of a motor vehicle and a resident of this
state shall operate or drive the motor vehicle upon the highways of this
municipality while it displays a distinctive number or identification mark
issued by or under the authority of another state, without complying with the
laws of this state relating to the registration and identification of motor
vehicles.
(R.C. § 4549.12(A))
   (G)   (1)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offenses established under division (A) of this section are
strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4503.21(B), (C))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(D))
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offense established under division (G)(3)(a) of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4503.111(B))
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4503.12(D))
      (5)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of
operation of a motor vehicle bearing license plates or an identification mark
issued to another, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.11(B))
      (6)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation by a resident of this state of a motor vehicle bearing the
distinctive number or identification mark issued by a foreign jurisdiction, a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.12(B))
§ 71.02 IMPROPER USE OF NONCOMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall use a motor vehicle registered as a noncommercial
motor vehicle for other than the purposes set forth in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4503.05)
§ 71.03 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE ORDERED IMMOBILIZED; FORFEITURE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or permit the operation of a
motor vehicle upon any public or private property used by the public for
vehicular travel or parking knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that
the motor vehicle has been ordered immobilized pursuant to an immobilization
order issued under R.C. § 4503.233.
   (B)   A motor vehicle that is operated by a person during a violation of
division (A) of this section shall be criminally forfeited to the state in
accordance with the procedures contained in R.C. § 4503.234.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4503.236)
§ 71.04 OPERATION OR SALE WITHOUT CERTIFICATE OF TITLE.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this municipality a motor vehicle for which a
certificate of title is required without having that certificate in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 4505 or, if a physical certificate of title has not been
issued for a motor vehicle, operate the motor vehicle in this state knowing
that the ownership information relating to the vehicle has not been entered
into the automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common
Pleas;
      (2)   Display or display for sale or sell as a dealer or acting on behalf
of a dealer, a motor vehicle without having obtained a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate, a certificate of title, or an assignment of a
certificate of title for it as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title or any certificate of
registration or license plates upon cancellation of the same by the Registrar
of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed in R.C. Chapter
4505;
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505 in case of the destruction or
dismantling or change of a motor vehicle in such respect that it is not the
motor vehicle described in the certificate of title;
      (5)   Violate any rules adopted pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (6)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapters 4505 and 4517, sell
at wholesale a motor vehicle ownership of which is not evidenced by an Ohio
certificate of title, or the current certificate of title issued for the motor
vehicle, or the manufacturer’s certificate of origin, and all title assignments
that evidence the seller’s ownership of the motor vehicle, and an odometer
disclosure statement that complies with R.C. § 4505.06 and subchapter IV of the
“Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act”, 86 Stat. 961 (1972), 15
U.S.C. § 1981;
      (7)   Operate in this state a motor vehicle knowing that the certificate
of title to the vehicle or ownership of the vehicle as otherwise reflected in
the automated title processing system has been canceled.
   (B)   This section does not apply to persons engaged in the business of
warehousing or transporting motor vehicles for the purpose of salvage
disposition.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200,
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4505.18)
§ 71.05 DISPLAY OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a “commercial car”, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, when the commercial car is required to be registered under state law,
shall, when operating the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer on the
streets, roads, or highways of this municipality display inside or on the
vehicle the certificate of registration for the commercial car, trailer or
semitrailer provided for in R.C. § 4503.19, or shall carry the certificate on
the operator’s person and display it upon the demand of any peace officer.
      (2)   Every person operating a commercial car, trailer or semitrailer
required to be registered under state law shall permit the inspection of the
certificate of registration upon demand of any peace officer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
commercial car certificate of registration violation, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.18)
§ 71.06 USE OF UNAUTHORIZED PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle upon the public roads
and highways in this municipality if it displays a license plate or a
distinctive number or identification mark that meets any of the following
criteria:
      (1)   It is fictitious;
      (2)   It is a counterfeit or an unlawfully made copy of any distinctive
number or identification mark;
      (3)   It belongs to another motor vehicle, provided that this section
does not apply to a motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads and
highways in this municipality when the motor vehicle displays license plates
that originally were issued for a motor vehicle that previously was owned by
the same person who owns the motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads
and highways in this municipality during the 30-day period described in R.C. §
4503.12(A)(4).
   (B)   A person who fails to comply with the transfer of registration
provisions of R.C. § 4503.12 and is charged with a violation of that section
shall not be charged with a violation of this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3) of this section is
guilty of operating a motor vehicle bearing an invalid license plate or
identification mark, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and
a misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.08)
§ 71.07 OPERATING WITHOUT DEALER OR MANUFACTURER LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated upon a public road or
highway a motor vehicle of a manufacturer or dealer unless the vehicle carries
and displays a placard, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.21, issued by the
Director of Public Safety that displays the registration number of its
manufacturer or dealer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation of a manufacturer’s or dealer’s motor vehicle, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.10)
DRIVER’S LICENSES
§ 71.20 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Display or cause or permit to be displayed, or possess any
identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
knowing the same to be fictitious, or to have been canceled, suspended, or
altered;
      (2)   Lend to a person not entitled thereto, or knowingly permit a person
not entitled thereto to use any identification card, driver’s or commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or commercial driver’s license
temporary instruction permit issued to the person so lending or permitting the
use thereof;
      (3)   Display, or represent as one’s own, any identification card,
driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit not issued to the
person so displaying the same;
      (4)   Fail to surrender to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, upon the
Registrar’s demand, any identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit that has been suspended or canceled;
      (5)   In any application for an identification card, driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or any renewal, reprint, or
duplicate thereof, knowingly conceal a material fact or present any physician’s
statement required under R.C. § 4507.08 or 4507.081 when knowing the same to be
false or fictitious.
   (B)   Whoever violates any division of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.30)
Statutory reference:
   Use of license to violate liquor laws; suspension; procedures, see R.C. §
4510.33
§ 71.21 PERMITTING MINOR TO OPERATE VEHICLE PROHIBITED; TEMPORARY INSTRUCTION
PERMIT; PROBATIONARY LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall cause or knowingly permit any minor to drive a motor
vehicle upon a highway as an operator, unless the minor has first obtained a
license or permit to drive a motor vehicle under R.C. Chapter 4507.
(R.C. § 4507.31(A))
   (B)   (1)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
in violation of the conditions established under R.C. § 4507.05(A).
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this section, no
holder of a temporary instruction permit that is issued under R.C. § 4507.05(A)
and that is issued on or after July 1, 1998, and who has not attained the age
of 18 years, shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m.
         (b)   The holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) on or after July 1, 1998, who has not attained the age of 18 years,
may operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or private property
used by the public for purposed of vehicular travel or parking between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. if, at the time of such operation, the holder
is accompanied by the holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian, and the parent,
guardian, or custodian holds a current valid driver’s or commercial driver’s
license issued by this state, is actually occupying a seat beside the permit
holder, and does not have a prohibited concentration of alcohol in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as provided in R.C. § 4511.19
(A).
(R.C. § 4507.05(F))
   (C)   (1)   (a)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held
the license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a
highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. unless
the holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
         (b)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for 12 months or longer shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. unless the
holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
      (2)   (a)   Subject to division (E)(1) of this section, division (C)(1)
(a) of this section does not apply to the holder of a probationary driver’s
license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of midnight and 6:
00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided
that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written documentation
from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
         (b)   Division (C)(1)(b) of this section does not apply to the holder
of a probationary driver’s license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and
5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.,
provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written
documentation from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
      (3)   An employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event is not liable in damages in a civil action for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises from, or is related
to, the fact that the employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event provided the holder of a probationary driver’s license with the
written documentation described in division (C)(2) of this section. The
Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall make available at no cost a form to serve as
the written documentation described in division (C)(2) of this section, and
employers, school officials, officials affiliated with religious events, and
holders of probationary driver’s licenses may utilize that form or may choose
to utilize any other written documentation to meet the requirements of that
division.
      (4)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking with more than one person who is not a family member
occupying the vehicle unless the probationary license holder is accompanied by
the probationary license holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or
(C)(1)(b) of this section if, at the time of the violation, an emergency
existed that required the holder of the probationary driver’s license to
operate a motor vehicle in violation of division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this
section or the holder was an emancipated minor.
   (E)   (1)   If a person is issued a probationary driver’s license prior to
attaining the age of 17 years and the person pleads guilty to, is convicted of,
or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a moving violation
during the six-month period commencing on the date on which the person is
issued the probationary driver’s license, the court with jurisdiction over the
violation may order that the holder must be accompanied by the holder’s parent
or guardian whenever the holder is operating a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking for a period not to exceed six months or the date the holder
attains the age of 17 years, whichever occurs first.
      (2)   Any person who is subject to the operating restrictions established
under division (E)(1) of this section as a result of a first moving violation
may petition the court for driving privileges without being accompanied by the
holder’s parent or guardian during the period of time determined by the court
under that division. In granting the driving privileges, the court shall
specify the purposes of the privileges and shall issue the person appropriate
forms setting forth the privileges granted. If a person is convicted of, pleads
guilty to, or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a second or
subsequent moving violation, the court with jurisdiction over the violation may
terminate any driving privileges previously granted under this division.
      (3)   No person shall violate any operating restriction imposed under
division (E)(1) or (E)(2) of this section.
   (F)   No holder of a probationary license shall operate a motor vehicle upon
a highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking unless the total number of occupants of the vehicle
does not exceed the total number of occupant restraining devices originally
installed in the motor vehicle by its manufacturer, and each occupant of the
vehicle is wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted
occupant restraining device.
   (G)   A restricted license may be issued to a person who is 14 or 15 years
of age under proof of hardship satisfactory to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether each occupant of the motor vehicle is wearing all of the
available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device as
required by division (F) of this section, or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons if that requirement has been or is being violated,
or for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a
violation of that requirement.
   (I)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this
section has been or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons for such a violation or for causing the arrest or
commencing a prosecution of a person for such a violation.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      FAMILY MEMBER. A family member of a probationary license holder includes
any of the following:
         (a)   A spouse;
         (b)   A child or stepchild;
         (c)   A parent, stepparent, grandparent, or parent-in-law;
         (d)   An aunt or uncle;
         (e)   A sibling, whether of the whole or half blood or by adoption, a
brother-in-law, or a sister-in-law;
         (f)   A son or daughter of the probationary license holder’s
stepparent if the stepparent has not adopted the probationary license holder;
         (g)   An eligible adult, as defined in R.C. § 4507.05.
      MOVING VIOLATION. Means any violation of any statute or ordinance that
regulates the operation of vehicles on the highways or streets. The term does
not include a violation of R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a violation of any statute or ordinance regulating
pedestrians or the parking of vehicles, vehicle size or load limitations,
vehicle fitness requirements, or vehicle registration.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4513.263.
(R.C. § 4507.071(B) - (I))
   (K)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.31(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates divisions (B), (C)(1), (C)(4), (E)(3), or (F) of
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4507.05(I), 4507.071(J))
§ 71.22 LICENSE REQUIRED AS DRIVER OR COMMERCIAL DRIVER ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE
PROPERTY; NONRESIDENT EXEMPTION.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   No person shall permit the operation of a motor vehicle
upon any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking, knowing the operator does not have a valid
driver's license issued to the operator by the Registrar of Motor Vehicle or a
deputy registrar under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid commercial driver's license
issued under R.C. Chapter 4506. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
whoever violates this division is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   No person shall receive a driver's license, or a motorcycle
operator's endorsement of a driver's or commercial driver's license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card unless and until the person
surrenders to the Registrar or a deputy registrar all valid licenses, temporary
instruction permits, and identification cards issued to the person by another
jurisdiction recognized by this state.
      (3)   The Registrar shall report the cancellation of a license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card to the issuing authority, together
with information that the license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card is now issued in this state. The Registrar or a deputy
registrar shall destroy any such license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (4)   No person shall possess more than one valid license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card at any time.
(R.C. § 4507.02(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling a road roller or road machinery upon a street or highway.
      (2)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling any agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a
street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
      (3)   No person shall drive, operate, draw, move, or propel any
agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a street or highway at a
speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the person has a current, valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (4)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate a
motorcycle having three wheels with a motor of not more than 50 cubic
centimeters piston displacement.
      (5)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate an
autocycle or a cab-enclosed motorcycle.
      (6)   Every person on active duty in the military or naval forces of the
United States, when furnished with a driver’s permit and when operating an
official motor vehicle in connection with such duty, is exempt from the license
requirements of R.C. Chapters 4506 and 4507. Every person on active duty in the
military or naval forces of the United States or in service with the peace
corps, volunteers in service to America, or the foreign service of the United
States, is exempt from the license requirements of such sections for the period
of the person’s active duty or service and for six months thereafter, provided
such person was a licensee under such sections at the time the person commenced
the person’s active duty or service. This section does not prevent such a
person or the person’s spouse or dependent from making an application, as
provided in R.C. § 4507.10(C), for the renewal of a driver’s license or
motorcycle operator’s endorsement or as provided in R.C. § 4506.14 for the
renewal of a commercial driver’s license during the period of the person’s
active duty or service.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.03)
   (C)   Nonresidents, permitted to drive upon the highways of their own state,
may operate any motor vehicle upon any highway in this state without
examination or license under R.C. §§ 4507.01 through 4507.164 and 4510.34
through 4510.41, inclusive, upon condition that such nonresident may be
required at any time or place to prove lawful possession or their right to
operate such motor vehicle, and to establish proper identity.
(R.C. § 4507.04)
   (D)   Surrender of driver’s license from another state.
      (1)   Any person who becomes a resident of this state, within 30 days of
becoming a resident, shall surrender any driver's license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card issued by another state to the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a deputy registrar. If such a person intends to
operate a motor vehicle upon the public roads or highways, the person shall
apply for a temporary instruction permit or driver's license in this state. If
the person fails to apply for a driver's license or temporary instruction
permit or within 30 days of becoming a resident, the person shall not operate
any motor vehicle in this state under a license or permit issued by another
state.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (D)(1) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offense established under division (D)(2)(a) of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
      (3)   For purposes of division (D)(1) of this section, “resident” means
any person to whom any of the following applies:
         (a)   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         (b)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to
be a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C.
§ 4507.01.
(R.C. § 4507.213)
§ 71.23 EMPLOYMENT OF A MINOR TO OPERATE A TAXICAB PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the definition of “chauffeur” in R.C. § 4501.01, no
person shall employ any minor for the purpose of operating a taxicab.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.321)
§ 71.24 RESTRICTION AGAINST OWNER LENDING VEHICLE FOR USE OF ANOTHER.
   (A)   No person shall permit a motor vehicle owned by the person or under
the person’s control to be driven by another if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person does not have a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or valid nonresident driving privileges;
      (2)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privileges have been suspended or canceled under R.C. Chapter 4510 or
any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (3)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving the motor vehicle would violate any prohibition
contained in R.C. Chapter 4509.
      (4)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving would violate R.C. § 4511.19 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (5)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
vehicle is the subject of an immobilization waiver order issued under R.C. §
4503.235 and the other person is prohibited from operating the vehicle under
that order.
   (B)   Without limiting or precluding the consideration of any other evidence
in determining whether a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section has occurred, it shall be prima facie evidence that
the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the operator of the
motor vehicle owned by the offender or under the offender’s control is in a
category described in division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(1), (A)(3), or (A)(5) of this section, the offender and the
operator of the motor vehicle reside in the same household and are related by
consanguinity or affinity.
      (2)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(2) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle reside in the same household, and the offender knows or has reasonable
cause to believe that the operator has been charged with or convicted of any
violation of law or ordinance, or has committed any other act or omission, that
would or could result in the suspension or cancellation of the operator’s
license, permit, or privilege.
      (3)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(4) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle occupied the motor vehicle together at the time of the offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of wrongful entrustment of a
motor vehicle, and shall be punished as provided in divisions (C) to (H) of
this section.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of an
unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the
offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   (a)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)
(2), or (A)(3) of this section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to
or been convicted of two or more violations of division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)
(3) of this section, R.C. § 4511.203(A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   For any violation of this section, in addition to the penalties
imposed under this Code or R.C. Chapter 2929, the court may impose a class
seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), and, if
the vehicle involved in the offense is registered in the name of the offender,
the court may order one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
of this section, the court may order, for 30 days, the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license
plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §
4503.233.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order, for 60 days, the
immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of
that vehicle’s license plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and
enforced under R.C. § 4503.233.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order the criminal
forfeiture to the state of the vehicle involved in the offense. If issued, the
order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234.
      (4)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order for
criminal forfeiture under division (C)(3)(c) of this section is assigned or
transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in addition to or
independent of any other penalty established by law, the court may fine the
offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the National
Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine imposed under this
division shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (D)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(a) or (C)(3)(b) of this section, the court shall not release the vehicle
from the immobilization before the termination of the period of immobilization
ordered unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
   (E)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(c) of this section, upon receipt of the order from the court, neither
the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor any deputy registrar shall accept any
application for the registration or transfer of registration of any motor
vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the order. The period of denial
shall be five years after the date the order is issued, unless, during that
five-year period, the court with jurisdiction of the offense that resulted in
the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar of the
termination. If the court terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar,
the Registrar shall take all necessary measures to permit the person to
register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to transfer the
registration of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section does not apply to motor vehicle rental dealers or motor
vehicle leasing dealers, as defined in R.C. § 4549.65.
   (G)   Evidence of a conviction of, plea of guilty to, or adjudication as a
delinquent child for a violation of this section shall not be admissible as
evidence in any civil action that involves the offender or delinquent child who
is the subject of the conviction, plea, or adjudication and that arises from
the wrongful entrustment of a motor vehicle.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, a vehicle is owned by a person if, at
the time of a violation of this section, the vehicle is registered in the
person’s name.
(R.C. § 4511.203)
§ 71.25 SUSPENSION OF DRIVER’S LICENSE; LICENSE SUSPENDED BY COURT OF RECORD.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4510.07 or in any other
provision of the Ohio Revised Code, whenever an offender is convicted of or
pleads guilty to a violation of any provision of this code that is
substantially equivalent to a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, and a court
is permitted or required to suspend a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit for a violation of that provision, a court, in addition to
any other penalties authorized by law, may suspend the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or non resident operating privileges for
the period of time the court determines appropriate, but the period of
suspension imposed for the violation of the provision of this code shall not
exceed the period of suspension that is permitted or required to be imposed for
the violation of the provision of the Ohio Revised Code to which the provision
of this code is substantially equivalent.
(R.C. § 4510.05)
   (B)   Whenever a person is found guilty under the laws of this state or any
ordinance of any political subdivision of this state, of operating a motor
vehicle in violation of any such law or ordinance relating to reckless
operation, the trial court of any court of record, in addition to or
independent of all other penalties provided by law, may impose a class five
suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(5).
   (C)   Suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section shall
be concurrent with any period of suspension disqualification under R.C. §§
3123.58 or 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from holding a
commercial driver’s license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a driver’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the commercial
driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person whose
commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be issued a
driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the suspension.
(R.C. § 4510.15)
§ 71.26 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall display the operator’s driver’s
license, or furnish satisfactory proof that the operator has a driver’s
license, upon demand of any peace officer or of any person damaged or injured
in any collision in which the licensee may be involved. When a demand is
properly made, and the operator has the operator’s driver’s license on or about
the operator’s person, the operator shall not refuse to display the license. A
person’s failure to furnish satisfactory evidence that the person is licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4507 when the person does not have the person’s license on
or about the person’s person shall be prima facie evidence of the person’s not
having obtained a driver’s license.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section,
R.C. § 4507.35, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.35)
§ 71.27 PROHIBITION AGAINST FALSE STATEMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement to any matter or
thing required by the provisions of this traffic code.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.36)
§ 71.28 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR IN VIOLATION OF LICENSE RESTRICTION.
   (A)   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, division (B)
of this section, §
71.31 and in R.C. §§ 4510.111 and 4510.16, no person whose driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended under any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, other than R.C.
Chapter 4509, or under any applicable law in any other jurisdiction in which
the person’s license or permit was issued shall operate any motor vehicle upon
the public roads and highways or upon any public or private property used by
the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking within this municipality
during the period of suspension unless the person is granted limited driving
privileges and is operating the vehicle in accordance with the terms of the
limited driving privileges.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality in violation of any restriction of the person’s
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit imposed under R.C. §§ 4506.10
(D) or 4507.14.
      (3)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under
suspension at the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(1) of this
section or the person operated a motor vehicle in violation of a restriction at
the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(2) of this section. The
person charged with a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. The court may impose upon the
offender a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. §
4510.02(A)(7).
         (b)   1.   Except as provided in division (A)(4)(b)2. or (A)(4)(b)3.
of this section, the court, in addition to any other penalty that it imposes on
the offender and if the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. §§ 4510.11,
4510.111 or 4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the
court, in addition to or independent of any other sentence that it imposes upon
the offender, may order the immobilization of the vehicle involved in the
offense for 30 days and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license plates for 30
days in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            2.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to two violations of this section, or any combination of
two violations of this section, R.C. §§ 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to any
other sentence that it imposes on the offender, may order the immobilization of
the vehicle involved in the offense for 60 days and the impoundment of that
vehicle’s license plates for 60 days in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            3.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, or any
combination of three or more violations of this section or R.C. §§ 4510.11,
4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the
court, in addition to any other sentence that it imposes on the offender, may
order the criminal forfeiture of the vehicle involved in the offense to the
state.
      (5)   Any order for immobilization and impoundment under this section
shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §§ 4503.233 and 4507.02, as applicable.
The court shall not release a vehicle from immobilization ordered under this
section unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
      (6)   Any order of criminal forfeiture under this section shall be issued
and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234. Upon receipt of the copy of the order from
the court, neither the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor a deputy registrar shall
accept any application for the registration or transfer of registration of any
motor vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the declaration of
forfeiture. The period of registration denial shall be five years after the
date of the order, unless, during that period, the court having jurisdiction of
the offense that led to the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the
Registrar of the termination. The Registrar then shall take necessary measures
to permit the person to register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to
transfer registration of the vehicle.
      (7)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.11)
   (B)   Driving under suspension in violation of other provisions.
      (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license
has been suspended pursuant to R.C. §§ 2151.354, 2151.87, 2935.27, 3123.58,
4301.99, 4510.032, 4510.22, or 4510.33, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
      (2)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (B)(1) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under suspension at the
time of the alleged violation of division (B)(1) of this section. The person
charged with a violation of division (B)(1) of this section may offer evidence
to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
driving under suspension and shall be punished as provided in division (B)(3)
(a) or division (B)(3)(b) of this section.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3)(b) of this
section, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. The offender shall be
sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
was convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)(1)
of this section, or any combination of two or more violations of division (B)
(1) of this section, R.C. §§ 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree, and the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.111)
   (C)   Repeat traffic offender; point system suspension. Any person whose
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privileges are suspended as a repeat traffic offender under R.C. § 4510.037 and
who, during the suspension, operates any motor vehicle upon any public roads
and highways is guilty of driving under a twelve-point suspension, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to a
minimum term of three days in jail. No court shall suspend the first three days
of jail time imposed pursuant to this division.
(R.C. § 4510.037(J))
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver's or commercial driver's license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
§ 71.29 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE OR MOTORCYCLE WITHOUT VALID LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   No person, except those expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public
road or highway or any public or private property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person
has a valid driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a commercial
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506.
      (2)   No person, except a person expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motorcycle upon a public road
or highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person has a valid
license as a motorcycle operator that was issued upon application by the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. Chapter 4507. The license shall be in
the form of an endorsement, as determined by the Registrar, upon a driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, if the person has a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle, or in the form of a restricted
license as provided in R.C. § 4507.14, if the person does not have a valid
license to operate a motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the person did not have either a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(1) of this section or a valid license as a motorcycle operator
either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or a restricted license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(2) of this section. The person charged with a violation of
division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may offer evidence to rebut this
prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or motorcycle without a valid license and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   If the trier of fact finds that the offender never has held a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license issued by this state or any other
jurisdiction, or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the
offender, if the offender has never held a valid license as a motorcycle
operator, either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or in the form of a restricted license, except as otherwise
provided in this division, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the offender, the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license bearing the motorcycle
endorsement or the offender’s restricted license was expired at the time of the
offense, except as otherwise provided in this division, the offense is a minor
misdemeanor. If within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
   (D)   The court shall not impose a license suspension for a first violation
of this section or if more than three years have passed since the offender’s
last violation of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (E)   If the offender is sentenced under division (C)(2) of this section, if
within three years of the offense the offender previously was convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one or more violations of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and if the offender’s license was
expired for more than six months at the time of the offense, the court may
impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or
nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)
(7).
(R.C. § 4510.12)
§ 71.30 DRIVING UNDER OVI SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege has been suspended under R.C. §§ 4511.19,
4511.191, or 4511.196 or under R.C. § 4510.07 for a conviction of a violation
of a municipal OVI ordinance shall operate any motor vehicle upon the public
roads or highways within this municipality during the period of the suspension.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of driving under OVI
suspension. The court shall sentence the offender under R.C. Chapter 2929,
subject to the differences authorized or required by this section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this
section, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first degree. The
court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of three consecutive days. The three-day
term shall be imposed, unless, subject to division (C) of this section, the
court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 30 consecutive days of house
arrest with electronic monitoring. A period of house arrest with electronic
monitoring imposed under this division shall not exceed six months. If the
court imposes a mandatory three-day jail term under this division, the court
may impose a jail term in addition to that term, provided that in no case shall
the cumulative jail term imposed for the offense exceed six months;
         (b)   A fine of not less than $250 and not more than $1,000;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization for 30 days of the
offender’s vehicle and impoundment for 30 days of the identification license
plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment shall be
issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (2)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section or one
equivalent offense, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of 10 consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The 10-
day mandatory jail term shall be imposed unless, subject to division (C) of
this section, the court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 90
consecutive days of house arrest with electronic monitoring. The period of
house arrest with electronic monitoring shall not exceed one year;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines provided for in R.C. Chapter 2929, a
fine of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization of the offender’s
vehicle for 60 days and the impoundment for 60 days of the identification
license plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment
shall be issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (3)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or two or more equivalent offenses, driving under OVI suspension is a
misdemeanor. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of 30 consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The
court shall not sentence the offender to a term of house arrest with electronic
monitoring in lieu of the mandatory portion of the jail term;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines set forth in R.C. Chapter 2929, a fine
of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, criminal forfeiture to the state
of the offender’s vehicle. The order of criminal forfeiture shall be issued and
enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234. If title to a motor vehicle that
is subject to an order for criminal forfeiture under this division is assigned
or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, the court may fine
the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the
National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine so imposed
shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (C)   (1)   No court shall impose an alternative sentence of house arrest
with electronic monitoring under division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section
unless, within 60 days of the date of sentencing, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the jail term imposed, the offender
will not be able to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following
the date of sentencing.
      (2)   An offender sentenced under this section to a period of house
arrest with electronic monitoring shall be permitted work release during that
period.
   (D)   Fifty percent of any fine imposed by a court under division (B)(1),
(B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section shall be deposited into the municipal
Indigent Drivers Alcohol Treatment Fund under the control of that court, as
created by the municipality pursuant to R.C. § 4511.191(H).
   (E)   In addition to or independent of all other penalties provided by law
or ordinance, the trial judge of any court of record or the mayor of a mayor’s
court shall impose on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of this section a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
      (1)   When permitted as specified in R.C. § 4510.021, if the court grants
limited driving privileges during a suspension imposed under this section, the
privileges shall be granted on the additional condition that the offender must
display restricted license plates, issued under R.C. § 4503.231, on the vehicle
driven subject to the privileges, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (2)   A suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section
shall be concurrent with any period of suspension or disqualification under
R.C. §§ 3123.58 or 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from holding
a commercial driver’s license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a driver’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the commercial
driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person whose
commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be issued a
driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the suspension.
   (F)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree under this
section for which the offender is sentenced.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC MONITORING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of a municipal ordinance, law of another state, or
law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to division (A) of
this section;
         (b)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to division (A) of this section.
      JAIL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Means the mandatory term in jail of 3, 10, or 30
consecutive days that must be imposed under division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3)
of this section upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of
this section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to any provision
of the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 4510.14)
   (H)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver's or commercial driver's license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 71.31 DRIVING UNDER FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY LAW SUSPENSION OR CANCELLATION;
DRIVING UNDER A NONPAYMENT OF JUDGMENT SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person, whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or temporary
instruction permit or nonresident’s operating privilege has been suspended or
canceled pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4509, shall operate any motor vehicle within
this municipality, or knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to
be operated by another person in the municipality, during the period of the
suspension or cancellation, except as specifically authorized by R.C. Chapter
4509. No person shall operate a motor vehicle within this municipality, or
knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to be operated by
another person in the municipality, during the period in which the person is
required by R.C. § 4509.45 to file and maintain proof of financial
responsibility for a violation of R.C. § 4509.101, unless proof of financial
responsibility is maintained with respect to that vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any public
or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking in this municipality if the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or temporary instruction permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended pursuant to R.C. §§ 4509.37 or 4509.40 for nonpayment of a
judgment.
   (C)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may be admitted into evidence
as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under either a
financial responsibility law suspension at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A) of this section or a nonpayment of judgment suspension at the time
of the alleged violation of division (B) of this section. The person charged
with a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may offer evidence to
rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of driving
under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation and shall be
punished as provided in this division (D). Whoever violates division (B) of
this section is guilty of driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension and
shall be punished as provided in this division (D).
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(2) of this section,
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified
misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously was
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section, or
any combination of two violations of this section, R.C. §§ 4510.11, 4510.111 or
4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.16)
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver's or commercial driver's license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 71.32 FAILURE TO REINSTATE LICENSE.
   (A)   No person whose driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, or nonresident’s operating privilege has been
suspended shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public road or highway or any
public or private property after the suspension has expired unless the person
has complied with all license reinstatement requirements imposed by the court,
the bureau of motor vehicles, or another provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person had not been reinstated by
the person at the time of the alleged violation of division (A) of this
section. The person charged with a violation of division (A) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to reinstate a
license, and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A) of this
section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of two
or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   In all cases, the court may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
(R.C. § 4510.21)
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver's or commercial driver's license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSES
§ 71.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL CONCENTRATION. The concentration of alcohol in a person’s blood,
breath or urine. When expressed as a percentage, it means grams of alcohol per
the following: 100 milliliters of whole blood, blood serum, or blood plasma;
210 liters of breath; or 100 milliliters of urine.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER'S LICENSE.
      (1)   A license issued in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4506 that
authorizes an individual to drive a commercial motor vehicle. Except as
otherwise specifically provided, "commercial driver's license" includes an
"enhanced commercial driver's license."
      (2)   "Enhanced commercial driver's license" means a commercial driver's
license issued in accordance with R.C. §§ 4507.021 and 4506.072 that denotes
citizenship and identity and is approved by the United States Secretary of
Homeland Security or other designated federal agency for purposes of entering
the United States.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE INFORMATION SYSTEM. The information system
established pursuant to the requirements of the “Commercial Motor Vehicle
Safety Act of 1986”, 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App. 2701.
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Except when used in R.C. § 4506.25, any motor
vehicle designed or used to transport persons or property that meets any of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Any combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight or combined
gross vehicle weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more, provided that the gross
vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight rating of the vehicle or vehicles being
towed is in excess of 10,000 pounds;
      (2)   Any single vehicle with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle
weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more;
      (3)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is not a Class A
or Class B vehicle, but is designed to transport 16 or more passengers
including the driver;
      (4)   Any school bus with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight
rating of less than 26,001 pounds that is designed to transport fewer than 16
passengers including the driver;
      (5)   Is transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is
required under 49 C.F.R. part 172, subpart F, as amended; or
      (6)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is designed to
be operated and to travel on a public street or highway and is considered by
the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration to be a commercial motor
vehicle, including but not limited to a motorized crane, a vehicle whose
function is to pump cement, a rig for drilling wells, and a portable crane.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Includes all of the following:
      (1)   Any substance classified as a controlled substance under the
“Controlled Substances Act”, 80 Stat. 1242 (1970), 21 U.S.C. § 802(6), as
amended;
      (2)   Any substance included in Schedules I through V of 21 C.F.R. part
1308, as amended;
      (3)   Any drug of abuse.
   CONVICTION. An unvacated adjudication of guilt or a determination that a
person has violated or failed to comply with the law in a court of original
jurisdiction or an authorized administrative tribunal, an unvacated forfeiture
of bail or collateral deposited to secure the person’s appearance in court, a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere accepted by the court, the payment of a fine
or court cost, or violation of a condition of release without bail, regardless
of whether or not the penalty is rebated, suspended or probated.
   DISQUALIFICATION. Means any of the following:
      (1)   The suspension, revocation, or cancellation of a person’s
privileges to operate a commercial motor vehicle;
      (2)   Any withdrawal of a person’s privileges to operate a commercial
motor vehicle as the result of a violation of state or local law relating to
motor vehicle traffic control other than parking, vehicle weight, or vehicle
defect violations;
      (3)   A determination by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
that a person is not qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle under 49
C.F.R. § 391.
   DOMICILED. Having a true, fixed, principal, and permanent residence to which
an individual intends to return.
   DOWNGRADE. Any of the following, as applicable:
      (1)   A change in the commercial driver’s license, or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit, holder’s self-certified status as
described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1);
      (2)   A change to a lesser class of vehicle;
      (3)   Removal of commercial driver’s license privileges from the
individual’s driver’s license.
   DRIVE. To drive, operate or be in physical control of a motor vehicle.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives, operates or is in physical control of a
commercial motor vehicle or is required to have a commercial driver’s license.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A license issued by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles that
authorizes an individual to drive.
   DRUG OF ABUSE. Any controlled substance, dangerous drug as defined in R.C. §
4729.01, harmful intoxicant as defined in R.C. § 2925.01, or over-the-counter
medication that, when taken in quantities exceeding the recommended dosage, can
result in impairment of judgment or reflexes.
   ELECTRONIC DEVICE. Includes a cellular telephone, a personal digital
assistant, a pager, a computer, and any other device used to input, write,
send, receive, or read text.
   ELIGIBLE UNIT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. A village, township, or county that has a
population of not more than 3,000 persons according to the most recent federal
census.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, including the federal government, any state, and a
political subdivision of any state, that owns or leases a commercial motor
vehicle or assigns a person to drive such a motor vehicle.
   ENDORSEMENT. An authorization on a person’s commercial driver’s license that
is required to permit the person to operate a specified type of commercial
motor vehicle.
   FARM TRUCK. A truck controlled and operated by a farmer for use in the
transportation to or from a farm, for a distance of not more than 150 miles, of
products of the farm, including livestock and its products, poultry and its
products, floricultural and horticultural products, and in the transportation
to the farm, from a distance of not more than 150 miles, of supplies for the
farm, including tile, fence and every other thing or commodity used in
agricultural, floricultural, horticultural, livestock, and poultry production,
and livestock, poultry, and other animals and things used for breeding,
feeding, or other purposes connected with the operation of the farm, when the
truck is operated in accordance with this definition and is not used in the
operations of a motor carrier, as defined in R.C. § 4923.01.
   FATALITY. The death of a person as the result of a motor vehicle accident
occurring not more than 365 days prior to the date of death.
   FELONY. Any offense under federal or state law that is punishable by death
or imprisonment for a term exceeding one year and includes any offense
specifically classified as a felony under the law of this state, regardless of
the penalty that may be imposed.
   FOREIGN JURISDICTION. Any jurisdiction other than a state.
   GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING. The value specified by the manufacturer as the
maximum loaded weight of a single or a combination vehicle. The gross vehicle
weight rating of a combination vehicle is the gross vehicle weight rating of
the power unit plus the gross vehicle weight rating of each towed unit.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material that has been designated as hazardous
under 49 U.S.C. § 5103 and is required to be placarded under 49 C.F.R. part
172, subpart F or any quantity of a material listed as a select agent or toxin
in 42 C.F.R. part 73, as amended.
   IMMINENT HAZARD. The existence of a condition that presents a substantial
likelihood that death, serious illness, severe personal injury, or a
substantial endangerment to health, property, or the environment may occur
before the reasonably foreseeable completion date of a formal proceeding begun
to lessen the risk of death, illness, injury, or endangerment.
   MEDICAL VARIANCE. One of the following received by a driver from the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration that allows the driver to be issued a
medical certificate:
      (1)   An exemption letter permitting operation of a commercial motor
vehicle under 49 C.F.R. part 381, subpart C or 49 C.F.R. § 391.64;
      (2)   A skill performance evaluation certificate permitting operation of
a commercial motor vehicle pursuant to 49 C.F.R. § 391.49.
   MOBILE TELEPHONE. A mobile communication device that falls under or uses any
commercial mobile radio service as defined in 47 C.F.R. part 20, except that
mobile telephone does not include two- way or citizens band radio services.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or semitrailer
propelled or drawn by mechanical power used on highways, except that such term
does not include a vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or semitrailer operated
exclusively on a rail.
   OUT-OF-SERVICE ORDER. A declaration by an authorized enforcement officer of
a federal, state, local, Canadian, or Mexican jurisdiction declaring that the
driver, commercial motor vehicle, or commercial motor carrier operation is out
of service as defined in 49 C.F.R. § 390.5.
   PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
   PORTABLE TANK. A liquid or gaseous packaging designed primarily to be loaded
onto or temporarily attached to a vehicle and equipped with skids, mountings,
or accessories to facilitate handling of the tank by mechanical means.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01(E)(1) and
(E)(3).
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Includes every vehicle that is defined as a
recreational vehicle in R.C. § 4501.01 and is used exclusively for purposes
other than engaging in business for profit.
   RESIDENCE. Any person’s residence determined in accordance with standards
prescribed in the rules adopted by the Registrar.
   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SERIOUS TRAFFIC VIOLATION. Any of the following:
      (1)   A conviction arising from a single charge of operating a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of any provision of R.C. § 4506.03;
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (2)(b) of this definition, a
violation while operating a commercial motor vehicle of a law of this state, or
any municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or any other
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, prohibiting either of the following:
            1.   Texting while driving;
            2.   Using a handheld mobile telephone.
         (b)   It is not a serious traffic violation if the person was texting
or using a handheld mobile telephone to contact law enforcement or other
emergency services.
      (3)   A conviction arising from the operation of any motor vehicle that
involves any of the following:
         (a)   A single charge of any speed in excess of the posted speed limit
by 15 miles per hour or more;
         (b)   Violations of R.C. §§ 4511.20 or 4511.201 or any substantially
equivalent ordinance or resolution, or of any substantially equivalent law of
another state or political subdivision of another state;
         (c)   Violation of a law of this state or an ordinance or resolution
relating to traffic control, other than a parking violation, or of any
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, that results in a fatal accident;
         (d)   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license with the proper class or endorsement for the specific vehicle
group being operated or for the passengers or type of cargo being transported;
         (e)   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license being in the person’s possession;
         (f)   Violation of R.C. §§ 4511.33 or 4511.34, or any municipal
ordinance or county or township resolution substantially equivalent to either
of those sections, or any substantially equivalent law of another state or
political subdivision of another state;
         (g)   Violation of any other law of this state, any law of another
state, or any ordinance or resolution of a political subdivision of this state
or another state that meets both of the following requirements:
            1.   It relates to traffic control, other than a parking violation;
            2.   It is determined to be a serious traffic violation by the
United States Secretary of Transportation and is designated by the director as
such by rule.
   STATE. A state of the United States and includes the District of Columbia.
   TANK VEHICLE. Any commercial motor vehicle that is designed to transport any
liquid or gaseous materials within a tank or tanks that are either permanently
or temporarily attached to the vehicle or its chassis and have an individual
rated capacity of more than 119 gallons and an aggregate rated capacity of
1,000 gallons or more. The term does not include a commercial motor vehicle
transporting an empty storage container tank that is not designed for
transportation, has a rated capacity of 1,000 gallons or more, and is
temporarily attached to a flatbed trailer.
   TESTER. Means a person or entity acting pursuant to a valid agreement
entered into pursuant to R.C. § 4506.09(B).
   TEXTING. Manually entering alphanumeric text into, or reading text from, an
electronic device. Texting includes short message service (SMS), e-mail,
instant messaging, a command or request to access a world wide web page,
pressing more than a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone, or engaging in any other form of
electronic text retrieval or entry, for present or future communication.
Texting does not include the following:
      (1)   Using voice commands to initiate, receive, or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone;
      (2)   Inputting, selecting, or reading information on a global
positioning system or navigation system;
      (3)   Pressing a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone; or
      (4)   Using, for a purpose that is not otherwise prohibited by law, a
device capable of performing multiple functions, such as a fleet management
system, a dispatching device, a mobile telephone, a citizens band radio, or a
music player.
   TEXTING WHILE DRIVING. Texting while operating a commercial motor vehicle,
with the motor running, including while temporarily stationary because of
traffic, a traffic control device, or other momentary delays. Texting while
driving does not include operating a commercial motor vehicle with or without
the motor running when the driver has moved the vehicle to the side of, or off,
a highway and is stopped in a location where the vehicle can safely remain
stationary.
   UNITED STATES. The 50 states and the District of Columbia.
   UPGRADE. A change in the class of vehicles, endorsements, or self-certified
status as described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1) that expands the ability of a
current commercial driver’s license holder to operate commercial motor vehicles
under this chapter or R.C. Chapter 4506.
   USE OF A HANDHELD MOBILE TELEPHONE. Means:
      (1)   Using at least one hand to hold a mobile telephone to conduct a
voice communication;
      (2)   Dialing or answering a mobile telephone by pressing more than a
single button; or
      (3)   Reaching for a mobile telephone in a manner that requires a driver
to maneuver so that the driver is no longer in a seated driving position, or
restrained by a seat belt that is installed in accordance with 49 C.F.R. §
393.93 and adjusted in accordance with the vehicle manufacturer’s instructions.
   VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4506.01)
§ 71.46 USE OF ACTUAL GROSS WEIGHT IN LIEU OF RATING.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the actual gross weight of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles may be used in lieu of a gross vehicle weight rating to
determine whether a vehicle or combination of vehicles qualifies as a
commercial motor vehicle if the gross vehicle weight rating specified by the
manufacturer for the vehicle of combination of vehicles is not determinable, or
if the manufacturer of the vehicle has not specified a gross vehicle weight
rating.
(R.C. § 4506.011)
§ 71.47 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having in the person’s
possession or otherwise under the person’s control more than one valid driver’s
license issued by this state, any other state, or by a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality
in violation of an out-of-service order while the person’s driving privilege is
suspended, revoked, or cancelled, or while the person is subject to
disqualification;
      (3)   Drive a motor vehicle on a highway in the municipality under the
authority of a commercial driver’s license issued by another state or a foreign
jurisdiction, after having been a resident of this state for 30 days or longer;
      (4)   Knowingly give false information in any application or
certification required by R.C. § 4506.07;
      (5)   Knowingly provide false statements or engage in any fraudulent act
related to testing for a commercial driver's license as required in R.C. §
4506.09.
   (B)   The municipality shall give every conviction occurring out of this
state and notice of which was received by the state Department of Public Safety
after December 31, 1989, full faith and credit and treat it for sanctioning
purposes under this chapter as though the conviction had occurred in this
state.
(R.C. § 4506.04(A), (B))
   (C)   No person shall drive any commercial motor vehicle for which an
endorsement is required under R.C. § 4506.12 unless the proper endorsement
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit. No person shall drive a commercial motor
vehicle in violation of a restriction established under R.C. § 4506.12 that
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit.
(R.C. § 4506.12(I))
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of
falsification, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition, the provisions
of R.C. § 4507.19 apply.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(5) of this section is guilty of
falsification, a misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition, the provisions
of R.C. § 4507.19 apply.
(R.C. § 4506.04(C))
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   The offenses established under division (C) of this section are
strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
whether in this section or another section of this code or the Ohio Revised
Code, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4506.12(J))
§ 71.48 PREREQUISITES TO OPERATION OF COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) or (C) of this section, the
following shall apply:
      (1)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in
this state unless the person holds, and has in the person’s possession, any of
the following:
         (a)   A valid commercial driver’s license with proper endorsements for
the motor vehicle being driven, issued by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or by
another jurisdiction recognized by this state;
         (b)   A valid examiner’s commercial driving permit issued under R.C. §
4506.13;
         (c)   A valid restricted commercial driver’s license and waiver for
farm-related service industries issued under R.C. § 4506.24;
         (d)   A valid commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
issued by the Registrar, provided that the person is accompanied by an
authorized state driver’s license examiner or tester or a person who has been
issued and has in the person’s immediate possession a current, valid commercial
driver’s license and who meets the requirements of R.C. § 4506.06(B).
      (2)   No person’s commercial driver’s license temporary instruction
permit shall be upgraded, and no commercial driver’s license shall be upgraded,
renewed, or issued to a person until the person surrenders to the registrar of
motor vehicles all valid licenses and permits issued to the person by this
state or by another jurisdiction recognized by this state. If the license or
permit was issued by any other state or another jurisdiction recognized by this
state, the Registrar shall report the surrender of a license or permit to the
issuing authority, together with information that a license or permit is now
issued in this state. The Registrar shall destroy any such license or permit
that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (3)   No person who has been a resident of this state for 30 days or
longer shall drive a commercial motor vehicle under the authority of a
commercial driver’s license issued in another jurisdiction.
   (B)   Nothing in division (A) of this section applies to any qualified
person when engaged in the operation of any of the following:
      (1)   A farm truck;
      (2)   Fire equipment for a fire department, volunteer or nonvolunteer
fire company, fire district, joint fire district, or the State Fire Marshal;
      (3)   A public safety vehicle used to provide transportation or emergency
medical service for ill or injured persons;
      (4)   A recreational vehicle;
      (5)   A commercial motor vehicle within the boundaries of an eligible
unit of local government, if the person is employed by the eligible unit of
local government and is operating the commercial motor vehicle for the purpose
of removing snow or ice from a roadway by plowing, sanding, or salting, but
only if either the employee who holds a commercial driver’s license issued
under R.C. Chapter 4506 and ordinarily operates a commercial motor vehicle for
these purposes is unable to operate the vehicle, or the employing eligible unit
of local government determines that a snow or ice emergency exists that
requires additional assistance;
      (6)   A vehicle operated for military purposes by any member or uniformed
employee of the armed forces of the United States or their reserve components,
including the Ohio National Guard. This exception does not apply to United
States reserve technicians;
      (7)   A commercial motor vehicle that is operated for nonbusiness
purposes. “Operated for nonbusiness purposes” means that the commercial motor
vehicle is not used in commerce as “commerce” is defined in 49 C.F.R. § 383.5,
as amended, and is not regulated by the Public Utilities Commission pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 4905, 4921, or 4923;
      (8)   A motor vehicle that is designed primarily for the transportation
of goods and not persons, while that motor vehicle is being used for the
occasional transportation of personal property by individuals not for
compensation and not in the furtherance of a commercial enterprise;
      (9)   A police SWAT team vehicle;
      (10)   A police vehicle used to transport prisoners.
   (C)   Nothing contained in division (B)(5) of this section shall be
construed as preempting or superseding any law, rule or regulation of this
state concerning the safe operation of commercial motor vehicles.
(R.C. § 4506.03(A) - (C))
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a person may drive a
commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality if all of the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person has a valid commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit issued by any state or
jurisdiction in accordance with the minimum standards adopted by the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration under the “Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety
Act of 1986”, 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App., for issuance of commercial
driver’s licenses;
      (2)   The person’s commercial driver’s license or temporary instruction
permit is not suspended, revoked, or canceled, and the person has the
appropriate endorsements for the vehicle that is being driven;
      (3)   The person is not disqualified from driving a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (4)   The person is not subject to an out-of-service order;
      (5)   The person is medically certified as physically qualified to
operate a commercial motor vehicle in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4506.
         (a)   A person who submitted a medical examiner’s certificate to the
Registrar in accordance with R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1) and whose medical
certification information is maintained in the commercial driver’s license
information system is not required to have the medical examiner’s certificate
in the person’s possession when on duty.
         (b)   A person whose medical certification information is not
maintained in the commercial driver’s license information system shall have in
the person’s possession when on duty the original or a copy of the current
medical examiner’s certificate that was submitted to the Registrar. However,
the person may operate a commercial motor vehicle with such proof of medical
certification for not more than 15 days after the date the current medical
examiner’s certificate was issued to the person.
         (c)   A person who has a medical variance shall have in the person’s
possession the original or copy of the medical variance documentation at all
times while on duty.
   (E)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this
municipality if the person does not meet the conditions specified in division
(D) of this section.
   (F)   Except as set forth in 49 C.F.R. §§ 390.3(f), 391.2, 391.62, 391.67,
and 391.68, no person holding a commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit or a commercial driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter
4506 may drive a commercial motor vehicle in interstate commerce until the
person is at least 21 years of age.
(R.C. § 4506.05(A) - (C))
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under divisions (D), (E) and (F) of this
section are strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The
designation of these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be
construed to imply that any other offense, for which there is no specified
degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4506.03(D), 4506.05(D))
§ 71.49 PHYSICAL QUALIFICATION TO OPERATE COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person who holds a valid commercial driver’s license shall drive a
commercial motor vehicle unless the person is physically qualified to do so.
      (1)   Any person applying for a commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit, the renewal or upgrade of a
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit, or the transfer of a commercial driver’s license from out
of state shall self-certify to the Registrar for purposes of 49 C.F.R. § 383.71
one of the following in regard to the applicant’s operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, as applicable:
         (a)   1.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in interstate or foreign commerce and is subject to
and meets the requirements under 49 C.F.R. part 391, the applicant shall self-
certify that the applicant is non-excepted interstate and shall provide the
Registrar with the original or a copy of a medical examiner’s certificate and
each subsequently issued medical examiner’s certificate prepared by a qualified
medical examiner to maintain a medically certified status on the applicant’s
commercial driver licensing system driver record;
            2.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in interstate commerce, but engages in transportation or
operations excepted under 49 C.F.R. §§ 390.3(f), 391.2, 391.68, or 398.3 from
all or parts of the qualification requirements of 49 C.F.R. part 391, the
applicant shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted interstate and is
not required to obtain a medical examiner’s certificate;
         (b)   1.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and
is subject to state driver qualification requirements, the applicant shall
self-certify that the applicant is non-excepted intrastate;
            2.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and is
excepted from all or parts of the state driver qualification requirements, the
applicant shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted intrastate.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the expiration date on a person’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit,
every commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit holder shall provide the Registrar with the certification
required by this section on or after January 30, 2012, but prior to January 30,
2014.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.10(A), (E))
§ 71.50 CRIMINAL OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person who holds a commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or who operates a motor vehicle
for which a commercial driver’s license or permit is required shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having a measurable or
detectable amount of alcohol or of a controlled substance in the person’s
blood, breath, or urine;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of 0.04% or more by whole blood or breath;
      (3)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of .048% or more by blood serum or blood plasma;
      (4)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of .056% or more by urine;
      (5)   Drive a motor vehicle while under the influence of a controlled
substance;
      (6)   Drive a motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a municipal
OVI ordinance as defined in R.C. § 4511.181;
      (7)   Use a vehicle in the commission of a felony;
      (8)   Refuse to submit to a test under R.C. §§ 4506.17 or 4511.191, or
any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (9)   Operate a commercial motor vehicle while the person’s commercial
driver’s license or permit or other commercial driving privileges are revoked,
suspended, cancelled, or disqualified;
      (10)   Cause a fatality through the negligent operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, including but not limited to the offenses of aggravated
vehicular homicide, vehicular homicide, and vehicular manslaughter;
      (11)   Fail to stop after an accident in violation of R.C. §§ 4549.02 to
4549.03, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (12)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle in violation of any provision of
R.C. §§ 4511.61 through 4511.63 or any federal or local law or ordinance
pertaining to railroad-highway grade crossings;
      (13)   Use a motor vehicle in the commission of a felony involving the
manufacture, distribution, or dispensing of a controlled substance as defined
in R.C. § 3719.01 or the possession with intent to manufacture, distribute, or
dispense a controlled substance;
      (14)   Use a commercial motor vehicle in the commission of a violation of
R.C. § 2905.32 or any other substantially equivalent offense established under
federal law or the laws of another state.
(R.C. § 4506.15(A))
   (B)   No person shall refuse to immediately surrender the person’s
commercial driver’s license or permit to a peace officer when required to do so
by R.C. § 4506.17.
(R.C. § 4506.17(H))
   (C)   (1)   Within the jurisdictional limits of the appointing authority,
any peace officer shall stop and detain any person found violating division (A)
of this section without obtaining a warrant. When there is reasonable ground to
believe that a violation of division (A) of this section has been committed and
a test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood plasma or blood serum,
breath or urine is necessary, the peace officer shall take the person to an
appropriate place for testing. If a person refuses to submit to a test after
being warned as provided in R.C. § 4506.17(C), or submits to a test that
discloses the presence of a controlled substance or an alcohol concentration of
0.04% or more by whole blood or breath, an alcohol concentration of .048% or
more by blood serum or blood plasma, or an alcohol concentration of .056% or
more by urine, the peace officer shall require that the person immediately
surrender the person’s commercial driver’s license to the peace officer.
      (2)   As used in this division (C), JURISDICTIONAL LIMITS means the
limits within which a peace officer may arrest and detain a person without a
warrant under R.C. § 2935.03, except that the Superintendent and the troopers
of the State Highway Patrol may stop and detain, without warrant, any person
who, in the presence of the Superintendent or any trooper, is engaged in a
violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter or R.C. Chapter 4506.
(R.C. § 4506.23)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. §§ 4506.15(B), 4506.17(N))
   (E)   The offenses established under division (A) of this section are strict
liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of these
offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply that any
other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a
strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4506.15(C))
Statutory reference:
   Alcohol or controlled substance testing, disqualification of drivers, see
R.C. § 4506.17
   Disqualification of drivers for violations, see R.C. § 4506.16
§ 71.51 APPLICATION OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of 49 C.F.R. part 383, subpart C (Notification
Requirements and Employer Responsibilities), as amended, shall apply to all
commercial drivers or persons who apply for employment as commercial drivers.
No person shall fail to make a report to the person’s employer as required by
this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.19)
§ 71.52 EMPLOYMENT OF DRIVERS OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Each employer shall require every applicant for employment as a driver
of a commercial vehicle to provide the applicant’s employment history for the
10 years preceding the date the employment application is submitted to the
prospective employer. The following information shall be submitted:
      (1)   A list of the names and addresses of the applicant’s previous
employers for which the applicant was the operator of a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (2)   The dates the applicant was employed by these employers;
      (3)   The reason for leaving each of these employers.
   (B)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize any driver employed by
the employer to drive a commercial motor vehicle during any period in which any
of the following apply:
      (1)   The driver’s commercial driver’s license is suspended, revoked, or
cancelled by any state or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   The driver has lost the privilege to drive, or currently is
disqualified from driving, a commercial motor vehicle in any state or foreign
jurisdiction;
      (3)   The driver, the commercial motor vehicle the driver is driving, or
the motor carrier operation is subject to an out-of-service order in any state
or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (4)   The driver has more than one driver’s license.
   (C)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4506.15.
   (D)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle if the driver does not hold a valid, current
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit bearing the proper class or endorsements for the vehicle. No
employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of the restrictions on the driver’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A), (B) or (D) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 4506.20)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty
otherwise is provided in the section that contains the provision violated is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. §§ 4506.99, 4507.99)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
72.001   Lanes of travel upon roadways
   
72.002   Driving through safety zone
   
72.003   Vehicles traveling in opposite directions
   
72.004   Rules governing overtaking and passing of vehicles
   
72.005   Permission to overtake and pass on the right
   
72.006   Driving to left of center line
   
72.007   Prohibition against driving upon left side of roadway
   
72.008   Hazardous zones
   
72.009   One-way highways and rotary traffic islands
   
72.010   Rules for driving in marked lanes
   
72.011   Space between moving vehicles
   
72.012   Divided roadways
   
72.013   Rules for turns at intersections
   
72.014   U-turns and turning in roadway prohibited
   
72.015   Starting and backing vehicles
   
72.016   Turn and stop signals
   
72.017   Hand and arm signals
Right-of-Way
   
72.030   Right-of-way at intersections
   
72.031   Right-of-way when turning left
   
72.032   Right-of-way at through highways; stop signs; yield signs
   
72.033   Stop at sidewalk area; stop signs on private roads and driveways
   
72.034   Right-of-way on public highway
   
72.035   Pedestrian on sidewalk has right-of-way
   
72.036   Right-of-way of public safety vehicles
   
72.037   Funeral procession has right-of-way
   
72.038   Pedestrians yield right-of-way to public safety vehicle
   
72.039   Pedestrian on crosswalk has right-of-way
   
72.040   Right-of-way yielded to blind person
   
72.041   Right-of-way yielded by pedestrian
Pedestrians
   
72.055   Pedestrian movement in crosswalks
   
72.056   Pedestrian walking along highway
   
72.057   Prohibition against soliciting rides; riding on outside of vehicle
   
72.058   Pedestrian on bridge or railroad crossing
   
72.059   Persons operating motorized wheelchairs
   
72.060   Intoxicated or drugged pedestrian hazard on highway
   
72.061   Operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices
   
72.062   Operation of personal delivery device on sidewalks and crosswalks
   
72.063   Low-speed micromobility devices
Grade Crossings
   
72.075   Stop signs at grade crossings
   
72.076   Driving vehicle across railroad grade crossing
   
72.077   Vehicles required to stop at grade crossings
   
72.078   Slow-moving vehicles or equipment crossing railroad tracks
School Buses
   
72.090   Regulations concerning school buses
   
72.091   Violation of regulations; report; investigation; citation; warning
   
72.092   Restrictions on the operation of school buses
   
72.093   School bus inspection
   
72.094   School bus not used for school purposes
   
72.095   Licensing by Department of Public Safety
   
72.096   Registration and identification of school buses
   
72.097   School bus marking
   
72.098   Flashing light signal lamps
   
72.099   Occupant restraining device for operator
Prohibitions
   
72.115   Obstruction and interference affecting view and control of driver
   
72.116   Occupying travel trailer, fifth wheel vehicle, or manufactured or
mobile home while in motion
   
72.117   Driving upon closed highway prohibited
   
72.118   Driving upon sidewalk area or paths exclusively for bicycles
   
72.119   Obstructing passage of other vehicles
   
72.120   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited; approaching
stationary public safety vehicle with caution
   
72.121   Driving over unprotected fire hose
   
72.122   Placing injurious material on highway or depositing litter from motor
vehicle
   
72.123   Transporting child not in child-restraint system prohibited
   
72.124   Occupant restraining devices
   
72.125   Use of engine brakes prohibited
   
72.126   Operating motor vehicle while wearing earphones or earplugs
   
72.127   Chauffeured limousines and livery services
   
72.128   Operating traction engine upon improved highway
   
72.129   Cracking exhaust noises; peeling out
   
72.130   Shortcutting across private property
   
72.131   Texting while driving prohibited
   
72.132   Use of electronic wireless communication devices by minors or
probationary drivers while driving prohibited
   
72.133   Truck routes
Statutory reference:
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.001 LANES OF TRAVEL UPON ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, or when making a left turn under the rules governing such movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   When driving upon a roadway divided into three or more marked lanes
for traffic under the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   When driving upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for
one-way traffic;
      (5)   When otherwise directed by a police officer or traffic-control
device.
   (B)   (1)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the
prevailing and lawful speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall be driven in the right-hand lane then available
for traffic, and far enough to the right to allow passing by faster vehicles if
such passing is safe and reasonable, except under any of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
         (b)   When preparing for a left turn;
         (c)   When the driver must necessarily drive in a lane other than the
right-hand lane to continue on the driver’s intended route.
      (2)   Nothing in division (B)(1) of this section requires a driver of a
slower vehicle to compromise the driver’s safety to allow overtaking by a
faster vehicle.
   (C)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the center line of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left of the center of
the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the lanes, or
except as permitted under division (A)(2) of this section. This division shall
not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the center line in making a
left turn into or from an alley, private road, or driveway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.25)
§ 72.002 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety
zone.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.60)
§ 72.003 VEHICLES TRAVELING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   Operators of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass
each other to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one
line of traffic in each direction, each operator shall give to the other one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway or as nearly one-half as is
reasonably possible.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.26)
§ 72.004 RULES GOVERNING OVERTAKING AND PASSING OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction:
      (1)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall, except as provided in division (A)(3) of this
section, signal to the vehicle to be overtaken, shall pass to the left thereof
at a safe distance, and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway
until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle. When a motor vehicle overtakes and
passes a bicycle or electric bicycle, three feet or greater is considered a
safe passing distance.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
operator of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle at the latter’s audible signal, and the operator shall not
increase the speed of the operator’s vehicle until completely passed by the
overtaking vehicle.
      (3)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction on a divided highway as defined in R.C. §
4511.35, a limited access highway as defined in R.C. § 5511.02, or a highway
with four or more traffic lanes is not required to signal audibly to the
vehicle being overtaken and passed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.27)
§ 72.005 PERMISSION TO OVERTAKE AND PASS ON THE RIGHT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass on the right of another
vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
or
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle only
under conditions permitting the movement in safety. The movement shall not be
made by driving off the roadway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.28)
§ 72.006 DRIVING TO LEFT OF CENTER LINE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing traffic proceeding in the same direction, unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic approaching from the
opposite direction or any traffic overtaken. In every event, the overtaking
vehicle must return to an authorized lane of travel as soon as practicable, and
in the event the passing movement involves the use of a lane authorized for the
traffic approaching from the opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet
of any approaching vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.29)
§ 72.007 PROHIBITION AGAINST DRIVING UPON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven upon the left side of the roadway under the
following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway, where the operator’s view is obstructed within such a distance as to
create a hazard in the event traffic might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct, or tunnel; or
      (3)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing.
   (B)   This section does not apply to vehicles upon a one-way roadway, upon a
roadway where traffic is lawfully directed to be driven to the left side, or
under the conditions described in R.C. § 4511.25(A)(2) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.30)
§ 72.008 HAZARDOUS ZONES.
   (A)   The Department of Transportation may determine those portions of any
state highway where overtaking and passing other traffic or driving to the left
of the center or center line of the roadway would be especially hazardous, and
may, by appropriate signs or markings on the highway, indicate the beginning
and end of such zones. When signs or markings are in place and clearly visible,
every operator of a vehicle shall obey the directions of the signs or markings,
notwithstanding the distances set out in R.C. § 4511.30.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply when all of the following
apply:
      (1)   The slower vehicle is proceeding at less than half the speed of the
speed limit applicable to that location.
      (2)   The faster vehicle is capable of overtaking and passing the slower
vehicle without exceeding the speed limit.
      (3)   There is sufficient clear sight distance to the left of the center
or center line of the roadway to meet the overtaking and passing provisions of
R.C. § 4511.29, considering the speed of the slower vehicle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.31)
§ 72.009 ONE-WAY HIGHWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for one-way
traffic, a vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
      (2)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven
only to the right of the rotary traffic island.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under § (B).
(R.C. § 4511.32)
§ 72.010 RULES FOR DRIVING IN MARKED LANES.
   (A)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic, or wherever within the municipality traffic is lawfully
moving in two or more substantially continuous lines in the same direction, the
following rules apply:
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven, as nearly as is practicable, entirely
within a single lane or line of traffic and shall not be moved from the lane or
line until the driver has first ascertained that the movement can be made with
safety.
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for
the two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center
lane, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle where the roadway is
clearly visible and the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance,
or when preparing for a left turn, or where the center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding, and is posted with signs to give notice of such allocation.
      (3)   Official signs may be erected directing specified traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway, or restricting
the use of a particular lane to only buses during certain hours or during all
hours, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of such signs.
      (4)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey
the directions of every such device.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.33)
§ 72.011 SPACE BETWEEN MOVING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle
more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of
the vehicle and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
      (2)   The driver of any truck, or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle,
when traveling upon a roadway outside a business or residence district, shall
maintain a sufficient space, whenever conditions permit, between the vehicle
and another vehicle ahead so an overtaking motor vehicle may enter and occupy
the space without danger. This division does not prevent overtaking and passing
nor does it apply to any lane specially designated for use by trucks.
      (3)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business
or residence district in a caravan or motorcade shall maintain a sufficient
space between the vehicles so an overtaking vehicle may enter and occupy the
space without danger. This division shall not apply to funeral processions.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.34)
§ 72.012 DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two roadways by an
intervening space, or by a physical barrier, or a clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway, and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across, or within any dividing space, barrier, or section, except through an
opening, crossover, or intersection established by public authority. This
section does not prohibit the occupancy of the dividing space, barrier, or
section for the purpose of an emergency stop, or in compliance with an order of
a police officer.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.35)
§ 72.013 RULES FOR TURNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall be
governed by the following rules:
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right- hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
center line thereof and by passing to the right of the center line where it
enters the intersection, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn
shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center line
of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made
in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
      (3)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of the
vehicle, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so
as to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane
of the roadway being entered lawfully available to traffic moving in that lane.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities may cause
markers, buttons, or signs to be placed within or adjacent to intersections,
and thereby require and direct that a different course from that specified in
this section be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when
markers, buttons, or signs are so placed, no operator of a vehicle shall turn
the vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and required by the
markers, buttons, or signs.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.36)
§ 72.014 U-TURNS AND TURNING IN ROADWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.13 and division (B) of this section,
no vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any
curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, if such vehicle
cannot be seen within 500 feet by the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from either direction.
   (B)   The driver of an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, may turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction. This division applies only when the emergency vehicle or
public safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle, and when the driver of the vehicle is giving an audible signal by
siren, exhaust whistle, or bell. This division does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.37)
§ 72.015 STARTING AND BACKING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or
parked until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
      (2)   Before backing, operators of vehicles shall give ample warning, and
while backing they shall exercise vigilance not to injure person or property on
the street or highway.
      (3)   No person shall back a motor vehicle on a freeway, except:
         (a)   In a rest area;
         (b)   In the performance of public works or official duties;
         (c)   As a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown
of a motor vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.38)
§ 72.016 TURN AND STOP SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle or move right or left upon a
highway unless and until the person has exercised due care to ascertain that
the movement can be made with reasonable safety, nor without giving an
appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
      (2)   When required, a signal of intention to turn or move right or left
shall be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by
the vehicle before turning, except that in the case of a person operating a
bicycle or electric bicycle, the signal shall be made not less than one time
but is not required to be continuous. A bicycle or electric bicycle operator is
not required to make a signal if the bicycle is in a designated turn lane, and
a signal shall not be given when the operator’s hands are needed for the safe
operation of the bicycle or electric bicycle.
      (3)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear, when there is opportunity to
give a signal.
      (4)   Any stop or turn signal required by this section shall be given
either by means of the hand and arm, or by signal lights that clearly indicate
to both approaching and following traffic the intention to turn or move right
or left, except that any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped
with, and the required signal shall be given by, signal lights when the
distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the left outside
limit of the body, cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches, or when
the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit
of the body or load thereof exceeds 14 feet, whether a single vehicle or a
combination of vehicles.
      (5)   The signal lights required by this section shall not be flashed on
one side only on a disabled vehicle, flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal
to operators of other vehicles approaching from the rear, nor be flashed on one
side only of a parked vehicle except as may be necessary for compliance with
this section.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.39)
§ 72.017 HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, all signals
required by the provisions of this traffic code, when given by hand and arm,
shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and
the signals shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn, hand and arm extended upward;
      (3)   Stop or decrease speed, hand and arm extended downward.
   (B)   As an alternative to division (A)(2) of this section, a person
operating a bicycle or electric bicycle may give a right turn signal by
extending the right hand and arm horizontally and to the right side of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.40)
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 72.030 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
streets or highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle
on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (B)   The right-of-way rule declared in division (A) of this section is
modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in this traffic code or
R.C. Chapter 4511.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.41)
§ 72.031 RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.42)
§ 72.032 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT THROUGH HIGHWAYS; STOP SIGNS; YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a law enforcement officer, every
driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering it. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-
way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so
closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is
moving across or within the intersection or junction of roadways.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow down to a
speed reasonable for the existing conditions, and if required for safety to
stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering it. After
slowing, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways. Whenever a driver is involved in a
collision with a vehicle in the intersection or junction of roadways, after
driving past a yield sign without stopping, the collision shall be prima facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield the right-of- way.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.43)
§ 72.033 STOP AT SIDEWALK AREA; STOP SIGNS ON PRIVATE ROADS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private
road, or driveway within a business or residence district shall stop the
vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area
extending across the alley, building entrance, road, or driveway, or in the
event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the point nearest the street to
be entered where the driver has a view of approaching traffic thereon.
(R.C. § 4511.431(A))
   (B)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may erect stop signs at
places where the road or driveway intersects with another private road or
driveway in the residential area, in compliance with all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   The stop sign is sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily
observant person and meets the specifications of and is placed in accordance
with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation pursuant to R.C. §
4511.09;
      (2)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road or
driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road or
driveway that they are entering private property, stop signs have been posted
and must be obeyed, and the signs are enforceable by law enforcement officers
under state law. The sign required by this division, where appropriate, may be
incorporated with the sign required by R.C. § 4511.211(A)(2), or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.43(A) and 4511.46, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be deemed to apply to the driver of a
vehicle on a private road or driveway where a stop sign is placed in accordance
with division (B) of this section and to a pedestrian crossing such a road or
driveway at an intersection where a stop sign is in place.
   (D)   When a stop sign is placed in accordance with division (B) of this
section, any law enforcement officer may apprehend a person found violating the
stop sign and may stop and charge the person with violating the stop sign.
   (E)   As used in this section, and for the purpose of applying R.C. §§
4511.43(A) and 4511.46, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, to
conduct under this section:
      INTERSECTION. Means:
         (a)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two private roads or driveways which join one another at, or
approximately at, right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling
upon different private roads or driveways joining at any other angle may come
in conflict.
         (b)   Where a private road or driveway includes two roadways 30 feet
or more apart, then every crossing of two roadways of such private roads or
driveways shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      OWNER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.211.
      PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS. Has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.211.
      ROADWAY. Means that portion of a private road or driveway improved,
designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder.
If a private road or driveway includes two or more separate roadways, the term
means any such roadway separately but not all such roadways collectively.
(R.C.§ 4511.432(A) - (C), (E))
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. §§ 4511.431(B), 4511.432(D))
   (G)   If the offender violates division (A) of this section while distracted
and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.431(B))
§ 72.034 RIGHT-OF-WAY ON PUBLIC HIGHWAY.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from any
place other than another roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all traffic
approaching on the roadway to be entered or crossed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.44)
§ 72.035 PEDESTRIAN ON SIDEWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
on a sidewalk.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.441)
§ 72.036 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the approach of a public safety vehicle or coroner’s vehicle,
equipped with at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible
under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
the vehicle, and the driver is giving an audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle, or bell, no driver of any other vehicle shall fail to yield the right-
of-way, immediately drive if practical to a position parallel to, and as close
as possible to, the right edge or curb of the highway clear of any
intersection, and stop and remain in that position until the public safety
vehicle or coroner’s vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (B)   This section does not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle or
coroner’s vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   This section applies to a coroner’s vehicle only when the vehicle is
operated in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. As used in this section, CORONER’S VEHICLE means a vehicle
used by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator that is equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and a siren, exhaust
whistle or bell capable of giving an audible signal.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (E), whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on a first offense. On a second offense within one year after the first
offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree, and, on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4511.45)
   (E)   (1)   When the failure of a motor vehicle operator to yield the right-
of-way to a public safety vehicle as required by division (A) of this section
impedes the ability of the public safety vehicle to respond to an emergency,
any emergency personnel in the public safety vehicle may report the license
plate number and a general description of the vehicle and the operator of the
vehicle to the law enforcement agency exercising jurisdiction over the area
where the alleged violation occurred.
      (2)   (a)   Upon receipt of a report under division (E)(1) of this
section, the law enforcement agency may conduct an investigation to attempt to
determine or confirm the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation.
         (b)   If the identity of the operator at the time of an alleged
violation of division (A) of this section is established, the law enforcement
agency has probable cause to issue either a written warning or a citation for
that violation, and the agency shall issue a written warning or a citation to
the operator.
         (c)   If the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency may
issue a written warning to the person who owned the vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation. However, in the case of a leased or rented vehicle, the law
enforcement agency shall issue the written warning to the person who leased or
rented the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation.
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section based on a
report filed under division (E)(1) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be fined $150.
         (b)   If a person who is issued a citation for a violation of division
(A) of this section based on a report filed under division (E)(1) of this
section does not enter a written plea of guilty and does not waive the person’s
right to contest the citation but instead appears in person in the proper court
to answer the charge, the trier of fact cannot find beyond a reasonable doubt
that the person committed that violation unless the emergency personnel who
filed the report appears in person in the court and testifies.
      (4)   As used in this division (E):
         LICENSE PLATE. Includes any temporary motor vehicle license
registration issued under R.C. § 4503.182 or similar law of another
jurisdiction.
         PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Does not include an unmarked public safety
vehicle or a vehicle used by a public law enforcement officer or other person
sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state or a vehicle used
by the motor carrier enforcement unit for the enforcement of orders and rules
of the public utilities commission.
(R.C. § 4511.454)
§ 72.037 FUNERAL PROCESSION HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   As used in this section, FUNERAL PROCESSION means two or more vehicles
accompanying the cremated remains or the body of a deceased person in the
daytime when each of the vehicles has its headlights lighted and is displaying
a purple and white or an orange and white pennant attached to each vehicle in
such a manner as to be clearly visible to traffic approaching from any
direction.
   (B)   Excepting public safety vehicles proceeding in accordance with R.C. §
4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or when directed
otherwise by a police officer, pedestrians and the operators of all vehicles
shall yield the right-of-way to each vehicle that is a part of a funeral
procession. Whenever the lead vehicle in a funeral procession lawfully enters
an intersection, the remainder of the vehicles in the procession may continue
to follow the lead vehicle through the intersection, notwithstanding any
traffic-control devices or right-of-way provisions of the Ohio Revised Code,
provided that the operator of each vehicle exercises due care to avoid
colliding with any other vehicle or pedestrian.
   (C)   No person shall operate any vehicle as a part of a funeral procession
without having the headlights of the vehicle lighted and without displaying a
purple and white or an orange and white pennant in such a manner as to be
clearly visible to traffic approaching from any direction.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.451)
§ 72.038 PEDESTRIANS YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY TO PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of a public safety vehicle, as stated in
R.C. § 4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, every
pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the public safety vehicle.
   (B)   This section shall not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle
from the duty to exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.452)
§ 72.039 PEDESTRIAN ON CROSSWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place, not in operation, or
are not clearly assigning the right-of-way, the driver of a vehicle shall yield
the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield, or if
required by R.C. § 4511.132 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is
upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the
pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as
to be in danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply under the conditions
stated in R.C. § 4511.48(B), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (F)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.46)
§ 72.040 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED TO BLIND PERSON.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section BLIND PERSON or BLIND PEDESTRIAN means a
person having not more than 20/200 visual acuity in the better eye with
correcting lenses, or visual acuity greater than 20/200, but with a limitation
in the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual field
subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees.
      (2)   The driver of every vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to every
blind pedestrian guided by a guide dog, or carrying a cane which is
predominantly white or metallic in color, with or without a red tip.
   (B)   No person, other than a blind person, while on any public highway,
street, alley, or other public thoroughfare, shall carry a white or metallic
cane, with or without a red tip.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.47)
§ 72.041 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED BY PEDESTRIAN.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all traffic upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic- control devices; and when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
   (E)   This section does not relieve the operator of a vehicle from
exercising due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway.
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.48)
PEDESTRIANS
§ 72.055 PEDESTRIAN MOVEMENT IN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.49)
§ 72.056 PEDESTRIAN WALKING ALONG HIGHWAY.
   (A)   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of the roadway, and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on
the left side of the roadway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. §§ 4511.13 and 4511.46, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, any pedestrian upon a roadway
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (E), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.50)
(Ord. 2002-008, passed 4-1-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.057 PROHIBITION AGAINST SOLICITING RIDES; RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person while on a roadway outside a safety zone shall solicit a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, no person
shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting employment, business, or
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle.
      (2)   The Legislative Authority, by ordinance, may authorize the issuance
of a permit to a charitable organization to allow a person acting on behalf of
the organization to solicit charitable contributions from the occupant of a
vehicle by standing on a highway, other than a freeway as provided in R.C. §
4511.051(A)(1), that is under the jurisdiction of the municipality. The permit
shall be valid for only one period of time, which shall be specified in the
permit, in any calendar year. The Legislative Authority also may specify the
locations where contributions may be solicited and may impose any other
restrictions on or requirements regarding the manner in which the solicitations
are to be conducted that the Legislative Authority considers advisable.
      (3)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section, CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION
means an organization that has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
currently valid ruling or determination letter recognizing the tax-exempt
status of the organization pursuant to IRC § 501(c)(3).
   (C)   No person shall hang onto or ride on the outside of any motor vehicle
while it is moving upon a roadway, except mechanics or test engineers making
repairs or adjustments, or workers performing specialized highway or street
maintenance or construction under authority of a public agency.
   (D)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person to hang onto or ride on
the outside of any motor vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway, except
mechanics or test engineers making repairs or adjustments, or workers
performing specialized highway or street maintenance or construction under
authority of a public agency.
   (E)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall knowingly permit
any person who has not attained the age of 16 years to ride in the unenclosed
or unroofed cargo storage area of the driver’s vehicle if the vehicle is
traveling faster than 25 miles per hour, unless either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The cargo storage area of the vehicle is equipped with a properly
secured seat to which is attached a seat safety belt that is in compliance with
federal standards for an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. §
4513.263(A)(2), the seat and seat safety belt were installed at the time the
vehicle was originally assembled, and the person riding in the cargo storage
area is in the seat and is wearing the seat safety belt; or
      (2)   An emergency exists that threatens the life of the driver or the
person being transported in the cargo storage area of the truck, trailer, or
semitrailer.
   (F)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall permit any person,
except for those workers performing specialized highway or street maintenance
or construction under authority of a public agency, to ride in the cargo
storage area or on a tailgate of the driver’s vehicle while the tailgate is
unlatched.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
any provision of divisions (A) through (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates any provision of divisions (A) through (D) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates any provision of
divisions (A) through (D) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E) or (F) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.51)
§ 72.058 PEDESTRIAN ON BRIDGE OR RAILROAD CROSSING.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate, or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.511)
§ 72.059 PERSONS OPERATING MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS.
   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair shall have all of the rights
and duties applicable to a pedestrian that are contained in this chapter,
except those provisions which by their nature can have no application.
(R.C. § 4511.491)
§ 72.060 INTOXICATED OR DRUGGED PEDESTRIAN HAZARD ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol, any drug of abuse,
or any combination of them to a degree that renders the pedestrian a hazard
shall not walk or be upon a highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.481)
§ 72.061 OPERATION OF ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Electric personal assistive mobility devices may be operated on
the public streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this Traffic Code that by their nature are applicable to an electric personal
assistive mobility device apply to the device and the person operating it
whenever it is operated upon any public street, highway, sidewalk, or path or
upon any portion of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
      (3)   The municipality may regulate or prohibit the operation of electric
personal assistive mobility devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and
paths, or portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles,
under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   No operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians and human-powered
vehicles at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (4)   Operate the device on any portion of a street or highway that has
an established speed limit of 55 miles per hour or more;
      (5)   Operate the device upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
pedestrians or other specialized use when an appropriate sign giving notice of
the specialized use is posted on the path;
      (6)   If under 18 years of age, operate the device unless wearing a
protective helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened;
      (7)   If under 16 years of age, operate the device unless, during the
operation, the person is under the direct visual and audible supervision of
another person who is 18 years of age or older and is responsible for the
immediate care of the person under 16 years of age.
   (C)   No person who is under 14 years of age shall operate an electric
personal assistive mobility device.
   (D)   No person shall distribute or sell an electric personal assistive
mobility device unless the device is accompanied by a written statement that is
substantially equivalent to the following: “WARNING: TO REDUCE THE RISK OF
SERIOUS INJURY, USE ONLY WHILE WEARING FULL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT – HELMET,
WRIST GUARDS, ELBOW PADS, AND KNEE PADS”.
   (E)   Nothing in this section affects or shall be construed to affect any
rule of the Director of Natural Resources or a board of park district
commissioners governing the operation of vehicles on lands under the control of
the Director or board, as applicable.
   (F)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor and shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be fined $10;
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to imposing
the fine required under division (F)(1)(a) of this section, shall do one of the
following:
            1.   Order the impoundment for not less than one day but not more
than 30 days of the electric personal assistive mobility device that was
involved in the current violation of that division. The court shall order the
device to be impounded at a safe indoor location designated by the court and
may assess storage fees of not more than $5 per day; provided the total
storage, processing, and release fees assessed against the offender or the
device in connection with the device’s impoundment or subsequent release shall
not exceed $50.
            2.    If the court does not issue an impoundment order pursuant to
division (F)(1)(b)1. of this section, issue an order prohibiting the offender
from operating any electric personal assistive mobility device on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles for not less than one day but not more than 30
days.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.512)
   (G)   As used in this code, ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE
means a self- balancing two non-tandem wheeled device that is designed to
transport only one person, has an electric propulsion system of an average of
750 watts, and when ridden on a paved level surface by an operator who weighs
170 pounds has a maximum speed of less than 20 miles per hour.
(R.C. § 4501.01(TT))
§ 72.062 OPERATION OF PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE ON SIDEWALKS AND CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ELIGIBLE ENTITY. Means a corporation, partnership, association, firm,
sole proprietorship, or other entity engaged in business.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE. Means an electrically powered device to which
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The device is intended primarily to transport property and cargo
on sidewalks and crosswalks.
         (b)   The device weighs less than 250 pounds excluding any property or
cargo being carried in the device.
         (c)   The device has a maximum speed of ten miles per hour.
         (d)   The device is equipped with technology that enables the
operation of the device with active control or monitoring by a person, without
active control or monitoring by a person, or both with or without active
control or monitoring by a person.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE OPERATOR. Means an agent of an eligible entity
who exercises direct physical control over, or monitoring of, the navigation
and operation of a personal delivery device. The phrase does not include, with
respect to a delivery or other service rendered by a personal delivery device,
the person who requests the delivery or service. The phrase also does not
include a person who only arranges for and dispatches a personal delivery
device for a delivery or other service.
   (B)   An eligible entity may operate a personal delivery device on sidewalks
and crosswalks so long as all of the following requirements are met:
      (1)   The personal delivery device is operated in accordance with all
regulations, if any, established by each local authority within which the
personal delivery device is operated.
      (2)   A personal delivery device operator is actively controlling or
monitoring the navigation and operation of the personal delivery device.
      (3)   The eligible entity maintains an insurance policy that includes
general liability coverage of not less than $100,000 for damages arising from
the operation of the personal delivery device by the eligible entity and any
agent of the eligible entity.
      (4)   The device is equipped with all of the following:
         (a)   A marker that clearly identifies the name and contact
information of the eligible entity operating the personal delivery device and a
unique identification number;
         (b)   A braking system that enables the personal delivery device to
come to a controlled stop;
         (c)   If the personal delivery device is being operated between sunset
and sunrise, a light on both the front and rear of the personal delivery device
that is visible in clear weather from a distance of at least 500 feet to the
front and rear of the personal delivery device when directly in front of low
beams of headlights on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   No personal delivery device operator shall allow a personal delivery
device to do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with traffic or pedestrian control devices and
signals;
      (2)   Unreasonably interfere with pedestrians or traffic;
      (3)   Transport any hazardous material that would require a permit issued
by the Public Utilities Commission;
      (4)   Operate on a street or highway, except when crossing the street or
highway within a crosswalk.
   (D)   A personal delivery device has all of the rights and obligations
applicable to a pedestrian under the same circumstances, except that a personal
delivery device shall yield the right-of-way to human pedestrians on sidewalks
and crosswalks.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall operate a personal delivery device unless the
person is authorized to do so under this section and complies with the
requirements of this section.
      (2)   An eligible entity is responsible for both of the following:
         (a)   Any violation of this section that is committed by a personal
delivery device operator; and
         (b)   Any other circumstance, including a technological malfunction,
in which a personal delivery device operates in a manner prohibited by
divisions (C)(1) to (C)(4) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.513) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.063 LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   A low-speed micromobility device may be operated on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and may be operated on any
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance
with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this title that by their nature could apply to a low-speed micromobility device
do apply to the device and the person operating it whenever it is operated upon
any public street, highway, sidewalk, or shared-use path, or upon any portion
of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   No operator of a low-speed micromobility device shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   No person who is under 16 years of age shall rent a low-speed
micromobility device.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device to
a person who is under 16 years of age.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device on
behalf of a person who is under 16 years of age.
   (D)   No person shall operate a low-speed micromobility device at a speed
greater than 20 miles per hour.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Unless a mens rea is otherwise specified in this section, an
offense established under this section is a strict liability offense and R.C. §
2901.20 does not apply. The designation of that offense as a strict liability
offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for which there
is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
   (F)   Notwithstanding division (A)(1) of this section, the municipality,
county, township, metropolitan park district, township park district,
recreation district, or any division of the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources if the division has the approval of the Ohio Director of Natural
Resources may do any of the following:
      (1)   Regulate or prohibit the operation of low-speed micromobility
devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, under its
jurisdiction;
      (2)   Include low-speed micromobility devices that are adapted to expand
access for people with various physical limitations into a shared bicycle,
shared electric bicycle, or similar vehicle sharing program, under its
jurisdiction;
      (3)   Require the owner or operator of a low-speed micromobility device
rental service or low-speed micromobility device sharing program to maintain
commercial general liability insurance related to the operation of the devices,
with limits of up to $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 per aggregate.
(R.C. § 4511.514) Penalty, see §
70.99
GRADE CROSSINGS
§ 72.075 STOP SIGNS AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   As used in this section, ACTIVE GRADE CROSSING WARNING DEVICE means
signs, signals, gates, or other protective devices erected or installed at a
public highway-railway crossing at common grade and activated by an electrical
circuit.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities, with the
approval of the Department, may designate dangerous highway crossings over
railroad tracks and erect stop signs thereat.
   (C)   (1)   The Department and local authorities shall erect stop signs at a
railroad highway grade crossing in either of the following circumstances:
         (a)   New warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning
devices are being installed at the grade crossing, and railroad crossbucks were
the only warning devices at the grade crossing prior to the installation of the
new warning devices.
         (b)   The grade crossing is constructed after July 1, 2013, and only
warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning devices are
installed at the grade crossing.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a railroad
highway grade crossing that the Director of Transportation has exempted from
that division because of traffic flow or other considerations or factors.
   (D)   When stop signs are erected pursuant to division (B) or (C) of this
section, the operator of any vehicle shall stop within 50, but not less than
15, feet from the nearest rail of the railroad tracks and shall exercise due
care before proceeding across such grade crossing.
   (E)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (3)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (F)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.61)
§ 72.076 DRIVING VEHICLE ACROSS RAILROAD GRADE CROSSING.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad
grade crossing, the person shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet
from the nearest rail of the railroad if any of the following circumstances
exist at the crossing:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a train.
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered.
         (c)   A flagperson gives or continues to give a signal of the approach
or passage of a train.
         (d)   There is insufficient space on the other side of the railroad
grade crossing to accommodate the vehicle the person is operating without
obstructing the passage of other vehicles, pedestrians or railroad trains,
notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed.
         (e)   An approaching train is emitting an audible signal or is plainly
visible, and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing.
         (f)   There is insufficient undercarriage clearance to safely
negotiate the crossing.
      (2)   A person who is driving a vehicle and who approaches a railroad
grade crossing shall not proceed as long as any of the circumstances described
in divisions (A)(1)(a) through (A)(1)(f) of this section exist at the crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed, or is being opened or closed unless the person is signaled by a law
enforcement officer or flagperson that it is permissible to do so.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.62)
§ 72.077 VEHICLES REQUIRED TO STOP AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the operator of
any bus, any school vehicle, or any vehicle transporting material required to
be placarded under 49 C.F.R. parts 100 through 185, before crossing at grade
any track of a railroad, shall stop the vehicle, and while so stopped, shall
listen through an open door or open window, and look in both directions along
the track for any approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of
a train, and shall proceed only upon exercising due care after stopping,
looking, and listening as required by this section. Upon proceeding, the
operator of such a vehicle shall cross only in a gear that will ensure there
will be no necessity for changing gears while traversing the crossing, and
shall not shift gears while crossing the tracks.
   (B)   This section does not apply at grade crossings when any local
authority has filed an application with the Public Utilities Commission
requesting the approval of an exempt crossing, and the Public Utilities
Commission has authorized and approved an exempt crossing as provided in R.C. §
4511.63(B).
   (C)   As used in this section:
      BUS. Means any vehicle originally designed by its manufacturer to
transport 16 or more passengers, including the driver, or carries 16 or more
passengers, including the driver.
      EXEMPT CROSSING. Means a highway rail grade crossing authorized and
approved by the Public Utilities Commission under R.C. § 4511.63(B) at which
vehicles may cross without making the stop otherwise required by this section.
      SCHOOL VEHICLE. Means any vehicle used for the transportation of pupils
to and from a school or school-related function if the vehicle is owned or
operated by, or operated under contract with, a public or nonpublic school.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. §§ 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or 4511.79, or
a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of those
sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.63)
§ 72.078 SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES OR EQUIPMENT CROSSING RAILROAD TRACKS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move any crawler-type tractor, steam
shovel, derrick, roller, or any equipment or structure having a normal
operating speed of six or less miles per hour or a vertical body or load
clearance of less than nine inches above the level surface of a roadway, upon
or across any tracks at a railroad grade crossing without first complying with
divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) of this section.
      (1)   Before making any such crossing, the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same, and while stopped, the
person shall listen and look in both directions along the track for any
approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of a train, and shall
proceed only upon exercising due care.
      (2)   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal, crossing gates, or a flagperson, or otherwise of the immediate approach
of a railroad train or car.
   (B)   If the normal sustained speed of the vehicle, equipment, or structure
is not more than three miles per hour, the person owning, operating, or moving
the same shall also give notice of the intended crossing to a station agent or
superintendent of the railroad, and a reasonable time shall be given to the
railroad to provide proper protection for the crossing. Where the vehicles or
equipment are being used in constructing or repairing a section of highway
lying on both sides of a railroad grade crossing, and in this construction or
repair it is necessary to repeatedly move the vehicles or equipment over the
crossing, one daily notice specifying when the work will start and stating the
hours during which it will be prosecuted is sufficient.
   (C)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (3)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.64)
SCHOOL BUSES
§ 72.090 REGULATIONS CONCERNING SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle, upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging
any school child, person attending programs offered by community boards of
mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child
attending a program offered by a head start agency, shall stop at least ten
feet from the front or rear of the school bus and shall not proceed until such
school bus resumes motion, or until signaled by the school bus driver to
proceed. It is no defense to a charge under this division that the school bus
involved failed to display or be equipped with an automatically extended stop
warning sign as required by division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Every school bus shall be equipped with amber and red visual signals
meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.771 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce, which shall be
actuated by the driver of the bus whenever but only whenever the bus is stopped
or stopping on the roadway for the purpose of receiving or discharging school
children, persons attending programs offered by community boards of mental
health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or children attending
programs offered by head start agencies. A school bus driver shall not actuate
the visual signals or the stop warning sign in designated school bus loading
areas where the bus is entirely off the roadway or at school buildings when
children or persons attending programs offered by community boards of mental
health and county boards of developmental disabilities are loading or unloading
at curbside or at buildings when children attending programs offered by head
start agencies are loading or unloading at curbside. The visual signals and
stop warning sign shall be synchronized or otherwise operated as required by
the Ohio Administrative Code.
   (C)   Where a highway has been divided into four or more traffic lanes, a
driver of a vehicle need not stop for a school bus approaching from the
opposite direction which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school child, persons attending programs offered by community
boards of mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or
children attending programs offered by head start agencies. The driver of any
vehicle overtaking the school bus shall comply with division (A) above.
   (D)   School buses operating on divided highways or on highways with four or
more traffic lanes shall receive and discharge all school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities, and children attending programs offered
by head start agencies on their residence side of the highway.
   (E)   No school bus driver shall start the driver’s bus until after any
child, person attending programs offered by community boards of mental health
and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child attending a program
offered by a head start agency who may have alighted therefrom has reached a
place of safety on the child’s or person’s residence side of the road.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section may be fined an
amount not to exceed $500. A person who is issued a citation for a violation of
division (A) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty
and waive the person’s right to contest the citation in a trial but instead
must appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
      (2)   In addition to and independent of any other penalty provided by
law, the court or mayor may impose upon an offender who violates this section a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7). When a
license is suspended under this section, the court or mayor shall cause the
offender to deliver the license to the court, and the court or clerk of the
court immediately shall forward the license to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles,
together with notice of the court’s action.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      HEAD START AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3301.32.
      SCHOOL BUS. As used in relation to children who attend a program offered
by a head start agency, means a bus that is owned and operated by a head start
agency, is equipped with an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce, is painted the
color and displays the markings described in R.C. § 4511.77, and is equipped
with amber and red visual signals meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.77,
irrespective of whether or not the bus has 15 or more children aboard at any
time. The term does not include a van owned and operated by a head start
agency, irrespective of its color, lights or markings.
(R.C. § 4511.75)
§ 72.091 VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS; REPORT; INVESTIGATION; CITATION; WARNING.
   (A)   As used in this section, LICENSE PLATE includes but is not limited to
any temporary motor vehicle license registration issued under R.C. § 4503.182
or substantially equivalent law of another jurisdiction.
   (B)   When the operator of a school bus believes that a motorist has
violated R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
the operator shall report the license plate number and general description of
the vehicle and of the operator of the vehicle to the law enforcement agency
exercising jurisdiction over the area where the alleged violation occurred. The
information contained in the report relating to the license plate number and to
the general description of the vehicle and the operator of the vehicle at the
time of the alleged violation may be supplied by any person with first-hand
knowledge of the information. Information of which the operator of the school
bus has first-hand knowledge also may be corroborated by any other person.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the report of the alleged violation of R.C. § 4511.75
(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the law enforcement
agency shall conduct an investigation to attempt to determine the identity of
the operator of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation. If the
identity of the operator at the time of the alleged violation is established,
the reporting of the license plate number of the vehicle shall establish
probable cause for the law enforcement agency to issue a citation for the
violation of R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. However, if the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time
of the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency
shall issue a warning to the owner of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation, except in the case of a leased or rented vehicle when the warning
shall be issued to the lessee at the time of the alleged violation.
(R.C. § 4511.751)
§ 72.092 RESTRICTIONS ON THE OPERATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle used for pupil transportation within
this municipality in violation of the rules of the Ohio Department of Education
and Workforce or the Ohio Department of Public Safety. No person, being the
owner thereof, or having the supervisory responsibility therefor, shall permit
the operation of a vehicle used for pupil transportation within this
municipality in violation of the rules of the Ohio Department of Education and
Workforce or the Ohio Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   As used in this section, VEHICLE USED FOR PUPIL TRANSPORTATION means
any vehicle that is identified as such by the Ohio Department of Education and
Workforce by rule and that is subject to O.A.C. Chapter 3301-83.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.76, or R.C. §§ 4511.63, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.76(C), (H), (I))
§ 72.093 SCHOOL BUS INSPECTION.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof,
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of, a
school bus within this municipality, unless there is displayed thereon the
decals issued by the state highway patrol bearing the proper date of inspection
for the calendar year for which the inspection decals were issued.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.761, or R.C. §§ 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.761)
§ 72.094 SCHOOL BUS NOT USED FOR SCHOOL PURPOSES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no person who is
the owner of a bus that previously was registered as a school bus that is used
or is to be used exclusively for purposes other than the transportation of
children shall operate the bus or permit it to be operated within this
municipality unless the bus has been painted a color different from that
prescribed for school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance and painted in such a way that the words “stop” and “school
bus” are obliterated.
   (B)   Any church bus that previously was registered as a school bus and is
registered under R.C. § 4503.07 may retain the paint color prescribed for
school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance if the bus complies with all of the following:
      (1)   The words “school bus” required by R.C. § 4511.77 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or obliterated and the
bus is marked on the front and rear with the words “church bus” painted in
black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
      (2)   The automatically extending stop warning sign required by R.C. §
4511.75 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance is removed and the
word “stop” required by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance is covered or obliterated.
      (3)   The flashing red and amber lights required by R.C. § 4511.771 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or removed.
      (4)   The inspection decal required by R.C. § 4511.761 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance is covered or removed.
      (5)   The identification number assigned under R.C. § 4511.764 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance and marked in black lettering on
the front and rear of the bus is covered or obliterated.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.762, or R.C. §§ 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (D)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.762)
§ 72.095 LICENSING BY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   No person, partnership, association, or corporation shall transport
pupils to or from school on a school bus or enter into a contract with a board
of education of any school district for the transportation of pupils on a
school bus without being licensed by the Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (3)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.763)
§ 72.096 REGISTRATION AND IDENTIFICATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of a school
bus within this municipality unless there is displayed thereon an identifying
number in accordance with R.C. § 4511.764.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of R.C. §§ 4511.63,
4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.77, or 4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that
is substantially equivalent to any of those sections, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.764)
§ 72.097 SCHOOL BUS MARKING.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor permit the operation of, a school
bus within this municipality unless it is painted national school bus yellow
and is marked on both front and rear with the words “school bus” in black
lettering not less than eight inches in height and on the rear of the bus with
the word “stop” in black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.77, or R.C. §§ 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend, for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.77)
§ 72.098 FLASHING LIGHT SIGNAL LAMPS.
   (A)   Every school bus shall, in addition to any other equipment and
distinctive markings required pursuant to R.C. §§ 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764
and 4511.77, and any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, be equipped
with signal lamps mounted as high as practicable, which shall display to the
front two alternately flashing red lights and two alternately flashing amber
lights located at the same level and to the rear two alternately flashing red
lights and alternately flashing amber lights located at the same level, and
these lights shall be visible at 500 feet in normal sunlight. The alternately
flashing red lights shall be spaced as widely as practicable, and the
alternately flashing amber lights shall be located next to them.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.771)
§ 72.099 OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE FOR OPERATOR.
   (A)   On and after May 6, 1986, no person, school board, or governmental
entity shall purchase, lease, or rent a new school bus unless the school bus
has an occupant restraining device, as defined in R.C. § 4513.263, installed
for use in its operator’s seat.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.772)
PROHIBITIONS
§ 72.115 OBSTRUCTION AND INTERFERENCE AFFECTING VIEW AND CONTROL OF DRIVER.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, as to obstruct the view of the
driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in a position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (3)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.70)
§ 72.116 OCCUPYING TRAVEL TRAILER, FIFTH WHEEL VEHICLE, OR MANUFACTURED OR
MOBILE HOME WHILE IN MOTION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no person shall
occupy any travel trailer, fifth wheel trailer, or manufactured or mobile home
while it is being used as a conveyance upon a street or highway.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a fifth wheel
trailer when both of the following apply:
         (a)   Any child riding in the fifth wheel trailer is properly secured
in the manner provided in R.C. § 4511.81.
         (b)   The operator of the vehicle towing the fifth wheel trailer has
some means of viable communication with the passengers riding in the trailer.
      (2)   As used in this division, "viable communication" includes a
cellular or satellite telephone, a radio, or any other similar electronic
wireless communications device.
   (C)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense as a
strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict
liability offense.
(R.C. § 4511.701)
§ 72.117 DRIVING UPON CLOSED HIGHWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall drive upon, along, or across a street or highway, or
any part of a street or highway that has been closed in the process of its
construction, reconstruction, or repair, and posted with appropriate signs by
the authority having jurisdiction to close the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.71(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on or onto a public street or
highway that is temporarily covered by a rise in water level, including
groundwater or an overflow of water, and that is clearly marked by a sign that
specifies that the road is closed due to the rise in water level and that any
person who uses the closed portion of the road may be fined up to $2,000.
      (2)   A person who is issued a citation for a violation of division (B)
(1) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty and
waive the person’s right to contest the citation in court, but instead must
appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
(R.C. § 4511.714(A), (B))
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.71(B))
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required
under R.C. § 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required under
any provision of law, the court imposing the sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (B) of this section
shall order the offender to reimburse one or more rescuers for the cost any
such rescuer incurred in rescuing the person, excluding any cost of
transporting the rescued person to a hospital or other facility for treatment
of injuries, up to a cumulative maximum of $2,000. If more than one rescuer was
involved in the emergency response, the court shall allocate the reimbursement
proportionately, according to the cost each rescuer incurred. A financial
sanction imposed under this section is a judgment in favor of the rescuer and,
subject to a determination of indigency under R.C. § 2929.28(B), a rescuer may
collect the financial sanction in the same manner as provided in R.C. §
2929.28.
(R.C. § 4511.714(C))
   (D)   As used in this section:
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Has the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 9.60.
      FIREFIGHTING AGENCY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      PRIVATE FIRE COMPANY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      RESCUER. Means a state agency, political subdivision, firefighting
agency, private fire company, or emergency medical service organization.
(R.C. § 4511.714(D))
§ 72.118 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK AREA OR PATHS EXCLUSIVELY FOR BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall drive any vehicle, other than a bicycle or an
electronic bicycle if the motor is not engaged, upon a sidewalk or sidewalk
area, except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
      (2)   This prohibition does not apply to a law enforcement officer, or
other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state, using
an electric bicycle with the motor engaged while in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting local
authorities from regulating the operation of bicycles or electric bicycles,
except that no local authority may require that bicycles or electric bicycles
be operated on sidewalks.
(R.C. § 4511.711(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, snowmobile, or all-
purpose vehicle upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, when
an appropriate sign giving notice of such use is posted on the path.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect any rule of
the Director of Natural Resources governing the operation of motor vehicles,
snowmobiles, all-purpose vehicles, and bicycles on lands under the Director’s
jurisdiction.
(R.C. § 4511.713(A))
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.711(B), 4511.713(B))
§ 72.119 OBSTRUCTING PASSAGE OF OTHER VEHICLES.
   (A)   No driver shall enter an intersection or marked crosswalk, or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing, unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk, or grade crossing to accommodate the
vehicle the driver is operating without obstructing the passage of other
vehicles, pedestrians, or railroad trains, notwithstanding any traffic-control
signal indication to proceed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.712)
§ 72.120 FOLLOWING AN EMERGENCY OR PUBLIC VEHICLE PROHIBITED; APPROACHING
STATIONARY PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE WITH CAUTION.
   (A)   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited. The driver of any
vehicle, other than an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle on official
business, shall not follow any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle
traveling in response to an alarm closer than 500 feet, or drive into or park
the vehicle within the block where the fire apparatus has stopped in answer to
a fire alarm, unless directed to do so by a police officer or a firefighter.
(R.C. § 4511.72(A))
   (B)   Approaching stationary public safety vehicle with caution.
      (1)   The driver of a motor vehicle, upon approaching a stationary public
safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection
vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor
vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a
highway maintenance vehicle that is displaying the appropriate visual signals
by means of flashing, oscillating, or rotating lights, as prescribed in R.C. §
4513.17, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   If the driver of the motor vehicle is traveling on a highway
that consists of at least two lanes that carry traffic in the same direction of
travel as that of the driver’s motor vehicle, the driver shall proceed with due
caution and, if possible and with due regard to the road, weather, and traffic
conditions, shall change lanes into a lane that is not adjacent to that of the
stationary public safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle,
waste collection vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to
conduct motor vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and
4923.06, or a highway maintenance vehicle.
         (b)   If the driver is not traveling on a highway of a type described
in division (B)(1)(a) of this section, or if the driver is traveling on a
highway of that type but it is not possible to change lanes or if to do so
would be unsafe, the driver shall proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of
the motor vehicle, and maintain a safe speed for the road, weather, and traffic
conditions.
       (2)   This division (B) does not relieve the driver of a public safety
vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection vehicle,
vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor vehicle
inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a highway
maintenance vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of
all persons and property upon the highway.
      (3)   No person shall fail to drive a motor vehicle in compliance with
divisions (B)(1)(a) or (B)(1)(b) of this section when so required by division
(B) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.213(A) - (C))
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding §
130.99 or R.C. § 2929.28, upon a finding that a person operated a motor vehicle
in violation of division (B)(3) of this section, the court, in addition to all
other penalties provided by law, shall impose a fine of two times the usual
amount imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.213(D), 4511.72(B))
   (D)   The offense established under division (B) of this section is a strict
liability offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this
offense as a strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any
other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a
strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4511.213(E))
§ 72.121 DRIVING OVER UNPROTECTED FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall, without the consent of the fire department official
in command, be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department that is
laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of
fire.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.73)
§ 72.122 PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON HIGHWAY OR DEPOSITING LITTER FROM MOTOR
VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a
highway, lane, road, street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails,
or other articles which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal
traveling along or upon the highway, except such substances that may be placed
upon the roadway by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
      (2)   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the
same.
      (3)   Any person authorized to remove a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a
highway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
highway from such vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall place any obstruction in or upon a highway without
proper authority.
   (B)   No person, with intent to cause physical harm to a person or a
vehicle, shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a highway, lane, road,
street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails, or other articles
which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal traveling along or
upon such highway, except such substances that may be placed upon the roadway
by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
(R.C. § 4511.74(A), (B))
   (C)   No operator or occupant of a motor vehicle shall, regardless of
intent, throw, drop, discard, or deposit litter from any motor vehicle in
operation upon any street, road, or highway, except into a litter receptacle in
a manner that prevents its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (D)   No operator of a motor vehicle in operation upon any street, road, or
highway shall allow litter to be thrown, dropped, discarded, or deposited from
the motor vehicle, except into a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents
its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (E)   As used in this section, LITTER means garbage, trash, waste, rubbish,
ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts, furniture,
glass, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
(R.C. § 4511.82(A), (B), (D))
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4511.74(C))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.82(C))
§ 72.123 TRANSPORTING CHILD NOT IN CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly secured in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child
restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (B)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab, that is owned,
leased, or otherwise under the control of a nursery school or child care
center, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child properly secured
in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions in a child restraint system
that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (C)   When any child who is less than eight years of age and less than four
feet nine inches in height, who is not required by division (A) or (B) of this
section to be secured in a child restraint system, is being transported in a
motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01 or a vehicle that is regulated under R.C. § 5104.015, that is
required by the United States Department of Transportation to be equipped with
seat belts at the time of manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor
vehicle shall have the child properly secured in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions on a booster seat that meets federal motor vehicle
safety standards.
   (D)   When any child who is at least eight years of age but not older than
15 years of age, and who is not otherwise required by division (A), (B), or (C)
of this section to be secured in a child restraint system or booster seat, is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly restrained either in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions
in a child restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards
or in an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. § 4513.263.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section or causing the
arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of division
(C) or (D) of this section, and absent another violation of law, a law
enforcement officer’s view of the interior or visual inspection of a motor
vehicle being operated on any street or highway may not be used for the purpose
of determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section has
been or is being committed.
   (F)   The Director of Public Safety shall adopt such rules as are necessary
to carry out this section.
   (G)   The failure of an operator of a motor vehicle to secure a child in a
child restraint system, a booster seat, or an occupant restraining device as
required in this section is not negligence imputable to the child, is not
admissible as evidence in any civil action involving the rights of the child
against any other person allegedly liable for injuries to the child, is not to
be used as a basis for a criminal prosecution of the operator of the motor
vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section, and is not
admissible as evidence in any criminal action involving the operator of the
motor vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
   (H)   This section does not apply when an emergency exists that threatens
the life of any person operating or occupying a motor vehicle that is being
used to transport a child who otherwise would be required to be restrained
under this section. This section does not apply to a person operating a motor
vehicle who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states that the child who otherwise would be
required to be restrained under this section has a physical impairment that
makes use of a child restraint system, booster seat, or an occupant restraining
device impossible or impractical, provided that the person operating the
vehicle has safely and appropriately restrained the child in accordance with
any recommendations of the physician or chiropractor as noted on the affidavit.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any person to
carry with the person the birth certificate of a child to prove the age of the
child, but the production of a valid birth certificate for a child showing that
the child was not of an age to which this section applies is a defense against
any ticket, citation, or summons issued for violating this section.
   (J)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section
shall be punished as follows, provided that the failure of an operator of a
motor vehicle to secure more than one child in a child restraint system,
booster seat, or occupant restraining device as required by this section that
occurred at the same time, on the same day, and at the same location is deemed
to be a single violation of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (J)(1)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than $25 nor more than $75.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section or of a
state law or municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent any of those
divisions, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   All fines imposed pursuant to division (J)(1) of this section shall
be forwarded to the State Treasurer for deposit in the Child Highway Safety
Fund created by R.C. § 4511.81(I).
(R.C. § 4511.81(A) - (H), (K), (L))
§ 72.124 OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      AUTOMOBILE. Means any commercial tractor, passenger car, commercial car,
or truck that is required to be factory-equipped with an occupant restraining
device for the operator or any passenger by regulations adopted by the United
States Secretary of Transportation pursuant to the “National Traffic and Motor
Vehicle Safety Act of 1966”, 80 Stat. 719, 15 U.S.C. § 1392.
      COMMERCIAL CAR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. A seat safety belt, shoulder belt, harness,
or other safety device for restraining a person who is an operator of or
passenger in an automobile and that satisfies the minimum federal vehicle
safety standards established by the United States Department of Transportation.
      PASSENGER. Any person in an automobile, other than its operator, who is
occupying a seating position for which an occupant restraining device is
provided.
      PASSENGER CAR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      TORT ACTION. A civil action for damages for injury, death, or loss to
person or property. The term includes a product liability claim, as defined in
R.C. § 2307.71, and as asbestos claim, as defined in R.C. § 2307.91, but does
not include a civil action for damages for breach of contract or another
agreement between persons.
      VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE. As used in the definitions of the terms set
forth above, VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE have the same meanings as in R.C. §
4511.01.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless he or she is
wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device, or operate a school bus that has an occupant restraining
device installed for use in its operator’s seat unless he or she is wearing all
of the available elements of the device, as properly adjusted.
      (2)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless each
passenger in the automobile who is subject to the requirement set forth in
division (B)(3) of this section is wearing all of the available elements of a
properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
      (3)   Occupy, as a passenger, a seating position on the front seat of an
automobile being operated on any street or highway unless he or she is wearing
all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining
device.
      (4)   Operate a taxicab on any street or highway unless all factory-
equipped occupant restraining devices in the taxicab are maintained in usable
form.
   (C)    Exceptions
      (1)   Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person who is
required by R.C. § 4511.81 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to
be secured in a child restraint device or booster seat.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
an employee of the United States Postal Service or of a newspaper home delivery
service, during any period in which the person is engaged in the operation of
an automobile to deliver mail or newspapers to addressees.
      (3)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states the following:
         (a)   That the person has a physical impairment that makes use of an
occupant restraining device impossible or impractical;
         (b)   Whether the physical impairment is temporary, permanent, or
reasonably expected to be permanent;
         (c)   If the physical impairment is temporary, how long the physical
impairment is expected to make the use of an occupant restraining device
impossible or impractical.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has registered with the Registrar of Motor Vehicles in accordance
with division (C)(5) of this section.
      (5)   A person who has received an affidavit under division (C)(3) of
this section stating that the person has a permanent or reasonably expected to
be permanent physical impairment that makes use of an occupant restraining
device impossible or impracticable may register with the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles attesting to that fact. Upon such registration, the Registrar shall
make that information available in the law enforcement automated data system. A
person included in the database under division (C)(5) of this section is not
required to have the affidavit obtained in accordance with division (C)(3) of
this section in their possession while operating or occupying an automobile.
      (6)   A physician or chiropractor who issues an affidavit for the
purposes of division (C)(3) or (C)(4) of this section is immune from civil
liability arising from any injury or death sustained by the person who was
issued the affidavit due to the failure of the person to wear an occupant
restraining device unless the physician or chiropractor, in issuing the
affidavit, acted in a manner that constituted willful, wanton, or reckless
misconduct.
      (7)   The Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 establishing a process for a person to be included in the
database under division (C)(5) of this section. The information provided and
included in the database under division (C)(5) of this section is not a public
record subject to inspection or copying under R.C. § 149.43.
   (D)   Officers not permitted to stop cars to determine violation.
Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law enforcement
officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on any street
or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of determining whether a
violation of division (B) of this section has been or is being committed or for
the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or summons for the violation or
for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for the
violation. No law enforcement officer shall view the interior or visually
inspect any automobile being operated on any street or highway for the sole
purpose of determining whether the violation has been or is being committed.
   (E)   Use of fines for educational program. All fines collected for
violations of division (B) of this section shall be forwarded to the State
Treasurer for deposit in the funds as set forth in R.C. § 4513.263(E).
   (F)   Limitations on evidence used for prosecution.
      (1)   Subject to division (F)(2) of this section, the failure of a person
to wear all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device in violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(3) of this section or
the failure of a person to ensure that each minor who is a passenger of an
automobile being operated by that person is wearing all of the available
elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device in violation of
division (B)(2) of this section shall not be considered or used by the trier of
fact in a tort action as evidence of negligence or contributory negligence.
But, the trier of fact may determine based on evidence admitted consistent with
the Ohio Rules of Evidence that the failure contributed to the harm alleged in
the tort action and may diminish a recovery of compensatory damages that
represents non-economic loss, as defined in R.C. § 2307.011, in a tort action
that could have been recovered but for the plaintiff’s failure to wear all of
the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
Evidence of that failure shall not be used as a basis for a criminal
prosecution of the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this
section; and shall not be admissible as evidence in a criminal action involving
the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
      (2)   If, at the time of an accident involving a passenger car equipped
with occupant restraining devices, any occupant of the passenger car who
sustained injury or death was not wearing an available occupant restraining
device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a device, or was
not wearing such a device as properly adjusted, then, consistent with the Rules
of Evidence, the fact that the occupant was not wearing the available occupant
restraining device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a
device, or was not wearing such a device as properly adjusted is admissible in
evidence in relation to any claim for relief in a tort action to the extent
that the claim for relief satisfies all of the following:
         (a)   It seeks to recover damages for injury or death to the occupant;
         (b)   The defendant in question is the manufacturer, designer,
distributor, or seller of the passenger car;
         (c)   The claim for relief against the defendant in question is that
the injury or death sustained by the occupant was enhanced or aggravated by
some design defect in the passenger car or that the passenger car was not
crashworthy.
   (G)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section shall be fined
$30.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) shall be subject to the penalty
set forth in §
70.99(B).
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section shall be fined
$20.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (B)(4) of this section, whoever violates division (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4513.263)
Cross-reference:
   Child restraint systems, see §
72.123
   Installation and sale of seat safety belts, see §
74.33
   School bus operators, restraining devices, see §
72.099
§ 72.125 USE OF ENGINE BRAKES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The non-emergency use of engine brakes within the municipality is
prohibited.
   (B)   As used in this section, ENGINE BRAKES shall be defined to include but
is not limited to Jake Brakes, Jacobs Brakes, C Brakes, PacBrakes, TekBrakes,
and any other type of engine retarders commonly utilized within the trucking
industry.
   (C)   This section does not apply to emergency vehicles operated by fire,
police, or military units.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
§ 72.126 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE WHILE WEARING EARPHONES OR EARPLUGS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      EARPHONES. Any device that covers all or a portion of both ears and that
does either of the following:
         (a)   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         (b)   Provides hearing protection.
      EARPHONES does not include speakers or other listening devices that are
built into protective headgear.
      EARPLUGS. Any device that can be inserted into one or both ears and that
does either of the following:
         (a)   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         (b)   Provides hearing protection.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle while wearing earphones over,
or earplugs in, both ears.
   (C)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any person wearing a hearing aid;
      (2)   Law enforcement personnel while on duty;
      (3)   Fire Department personnel and emergency medical service personnel
while on duty;
      (4)   Any person engaged in the operation of equipment for use in the
maintenance or repair of any highway;
      (5)   Any person engaged in the operation of refuse collection equipment;
      (6)   Any person wearing earphones or earplugs for hearing protection
while operating a motorcycle.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.84)
§ 72.127 CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINES AND LIVERY SERVICES.
   (A)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine shall accept passengers only
on the basis of prearranged contracts, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, and shall
not cruise in search of patronage unless the limousine is in compliance with
any statute or ordinance governing the operation of taxicabs or other similar
vehicles for hire.
   (B)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine may provide transportation to
passengers who arrange for the transportation through an intermediary,
including a digital dispatching service. Notwithstanding any law to the
contrary, when providing transportation arranged through an intermediary, the
operator of a chauffeured limousine may establish the fare and method of fare
calculation, so long as the method of fare calculation is provided to the
passenger upon request.
   (C)   No person shall advertise or hold himself or herself out as doing
business as a limousine service or livery service or other similar designation
unless each vehicle used by the person to provide the service is registered in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.24 and is in compliance with R.C. § 4509.80.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.85)
Statutory reference:
   Chauffeured limousine, motor vehicle licensing, see R.C. § 4503.24
   Proof of financial responsibility, see R.C. § 4509.80
§ 72.128 OPERATING TRACTION ENGINE UPON IMPROVED HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   No person shall drive over the improved highways of this municipality
a traction engine or tractor with tires or wheels equipped with ice picks,
spuds, spikes, chains or other projections of any kind extending beyond the
cleats, and no person shall tow or in any way pull another vehicle over the
improved highways of this municipality which towed or pulled vehicle has tires
or wheels equipped with ice picks, spuds, spikes, chains or other projections
of any kind. As used in this section, “traction engine” or “tractor” applies to
all self-propelling engines equipped with metal-tired wheels operated or
propelled by any form of engine, motor or mechanical power.
   (B)   This municipality shall not adopt, enforce, or maintain any ordinance,
rule or regulation contrary to or inconsistent with division (A), nor shall
this municipality require any license tax upon or registration fee for any
traction engine, tractor, or trailer, or any permit or license to operate.
Operators of traction engines or tractors shall have the same rights upon the
public streets and highways as the drivers of any other vehicles, unless some
other safe and convenient way is provided, and no public road open to traffic
shall be closed to traction engines or tractors.
(R.C. § 5589.08)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
§ 72.129 CRACKING EXHAUST NOISES; PEELING OUT.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe
operation, or in compliance with law, in such a manner that the vehicle is so
rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped position, or in the shifting of
gears while in motion, that the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking or
chattering noise unusual to its normal operation, or that the rubber tires of
such vehicle squeal or leave tire marks on the roadway, commonly known as
“peeling out”.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.130 SHORTCUTTING ACROSS PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall enter upon private property for the
sole purpose of driving across such property, between abutting streets or other
public ways thereof. The failure to stop on such property in connection with or
in furtherance of the enterprise or activities being conducted on the property
shall constitute prima facie evidence of the violation.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.131 TEXTING WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on any street, highway, or
property open to the public for vehicular traffic while using a handheld
electronic wireless communications device to write, send, or read a text-based
communication.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   A person using a handheld electronic wireless communications device
in that manner for emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a
law enforcement agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department, or
other similar emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person driving a public safety vehicle who uses a handheld
electronic wireless communications device in that manner in the course of the
person’s duties;
      (3)   A person using a handheld electronic wireless communications device
in that manner whose motor vehicle is in a stationary position and who is
outside a lane of travel;
      (4)   A person reading, selecting, or entering a name or telephone number
in a handheld electronic wireless communications device for the purpose of
making or receiving a telephone call;
      (5)   A person receiving wireless messages on a device regarding the
operation or navigation of a motor vehicle; safety-related information,
including emergency, traffic, or weather alerts; or data used primarily by the
motor vehicle;
      (6)   A person receiving wireless messages via radio waves;
      (7)   A person using a device for navigation purposes;
      (8)   A person conducting wireless interpersonal communication with a
device that does not require manually entering letters, numbers, or symbols or
reading text messages, except to activate, deactivate, or initiate the device
or a feature or function of the device;
      (9)   A person operating a commercial truck while using a mobile data
terminal that transmits and receives data; or
      (10)   A person using a handheld electronic wireless communications
device in conjunction with a voice-operated or hands-free device feature or
function of the vehicle.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on
any street or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (A) of this section has been or is
being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of that nature or causing the arrest of or commencing a
prosecution of a person for a violation of that nature, and no law enforcement
officer shall view the interior or visually inspect any automobile being
operated on any street or highway for the sole purpose of determining whether a
violation of that nature has been or is being committed.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
   (E)   A prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 4511.204 does not preclude a
prosecution for a violation of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance
based on the same conduct. However, if an offender is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.204 and is also convicted of or pleads
guilty to a violation of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance based
on the same conduct, the two offenses are allied offenses of similar import
under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (F)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Includes any of the following:
         (a)   A wireless telephone;
         (b)   A text-messaging device;
         (c)   A personal digital assistant;
         (d)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
and
         (e)   Any other substantially similar wireless device that is designed
or used to communicate text.
      VOICE-OPERATED OR HANDS-FREE DEVICE. A device that allows the user to
vocally compose or send, or to listen to a text-based communication without the
use of either hand except to activate or deactivate a feature or function.
      WRITE, SEND, OR READ A TEXT-BASED COMMUNICATION. To manually write or
send, or read a text-based communication using an electronic wireless
communications device, including manually writing or sending, or reading
communications referred to as text messages, instant messages, or electronic
mail.
(Ord. 2015-030, passed 8-17-2015)
Statutory reference:
   No preemption for local regulations imposing greater penalties, see R.C. §
4511.204(E)
§ 72.132 USE OF ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES BY MINORS OR
PROBATIONARY DRIVERS WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit who has not attained the
age of 18 years and no holder of a probationary driver’s license shall drive a
motor vehicle on any street, highway, or property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking while using in any manner an
electronic wireless communications device.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to either of the
following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a law enforcement
agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department, or other similar
emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device whose
motor vehicle is in a stationary position and the motor vehicle is outside a
lane of travel; or
      (3)   A person using a navigation device in a voice-operated or hands-
free manner who does not manipulate the device while driving.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A) of this section shall be fined $150. In addition, the
court shall impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license
or permit for a definite period of 60 days.
      (2)   If the person previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or
a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section, whoever violates
this section shall be fined $300. In addition, the court shall impose a class
seven suspension of the person’s driver’s license or permit for a definite
period of one year.
   (D)   The filing of a sworn complaint against a person for a violation of
R.C. § 4511.205 does not preclude the filing of a sworn complaint for a
violation of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for the same
conduct. However, if a person is adjudicated a delinquent child or a juvenile
traffic offender for a violation of R.C. § 4511.205 and is also adjudicated a
delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for the same conduct, the two
offenses are allied offenses of similar import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (E)   As used in this section, ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE
includes any of the following:
      (1)   A wireless telephone;
      (2)   A personal digital assistant;
      (3)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
      (4)   A text-messaging device; and
      (5)   Any other substantially similar electronic wireless device that is
designed or used to communicate via voice, image, or written word.
(Ord. 2015-030, passed 8-17-2015)
§ 72.133 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   No person shall drive a truck over any public street within the
village except upon those streets hereinafter designated as truck routes and
except upon streets providing the shortest and most direct course of travel
between truck routes and origin or destination points as herein provided. All
trucks within the village shall be operated only over and along the following
established and designated truck routes and on such other designated streets
over which truck travel is otherwise permitted:
      (1)   State Route 42;
      (2)   State Route 73;
      (3)   North Street to Dayton Road to Lytle Road;
      (4)   Old State Route 73 to Dayton Road to North Street to State Route
42; and
      (5)   Old State Route 73 to Lytle Road.
   (B)   The foregoing routes shall serve as the established truck routes. All
trucks entering the village from points outside the village and proceeding
directly to a destination point outside the village shall operate only over
these designated routes. All trucks entering the village for a destination
point in the village should proceed only over an established truck route and
shall deviate only at the intersection nearest the destination point. Upon
leaving the destination point, a deviating truck shall return to the truck
route by the shortest permissible route.
   (C)   All trucks entering the village for multiple destination points shall
proceed only over established truck routes and shall deviate only at the
intersection nearest to the first destination point. Upon leaving the first
destination point, a deviating truck shall proceed to other destination points
by the shortest and most direct course. Upon leaving the last destination
point, a deviating truck shall return to the truck route by the shortest
permissible route.
   (D)   All trucks on a trip originating in the village and traveling in the
village for a destination point outside the village shall proceed by the
shortest and most direct course over streets to a truck route as herein
established. All trucks on a trip originating in the village and traveling in
the village for a destination point in the village shall proceed only by the
shortest and most direct route.
   (E)   A TRUCK is herein defined as any vehicle designed or operated
primarily for the transportation of property and whose body weight or combined
body and load weight exceeds three tons or any commercial vehicle having six or
more wheels.
   (F)   A truck which leaves and departs from a truck route while traveling
inside the village shall be considered a “deviating truck.”
   (G)   This section shall not prohibit:
      (1)   Operation on street of destination. The operation of trucks upon
any street of origin or where necessary to conduct business at a destination
point, provided truck routes are used to or from the nearest intersection to
the point of origin or destination;
      (2)   Public safety vehicles. The operation of emergency vehicles upon
any street in the village;
      (3)   Public utilities. The operation of trucks owned or operated by the
village, public utilities, and any contractor or materialman, while engaged in
the repair, maintenance or construction of streets, street improvements, or
street utilities in the village; or
      (4)   Detoured trucks. The operation of trucks upon any officially
established street for which such detour is established.
   (H)   Upon application and for good cause shown, the Village Manager, or
Council’s designee, may issue a local permit authorizing an applicant to move
an oversize or overweight vehicle or combination of vehicles upon local
streets. Nothing herein shall prevent such applicant from also obtaining any
required permits from the Ohio Director of Transportation as may be necessary
for movement upon state routes.
   (I)   This permit may be for single or round trip and may provide for such
prescribed terms or conditions of operation for such vehicle or combination of
vehicles by designating the route, hours, speed, or such other restrictions as
may be necessary for the preservation of the public peace, property, health and
safety. The village may further require the posting of bond or other security
necessary to compensation for any damage to a roadway or road structure.
   (J)   For each permit, the village shall charge the sum as set forth in the
village’s fee schedule, as adopted by reference in §
36.05, and for each hour of time or any part thereof spent by the Police
Division in supervising the movement of such vehicle, the applicant shall pay
the sum as set forth in the village’s fee schedule, as adopted by reference in
§
36.05.
   (K)   Signs shall be posted on all truck routes designated herein clearly
indicating “No Thru Trucks - Gross Weight 3 Tons” or words of similar import to
apprise drivers of the limitations imposed by this section. No driver shall
disobey the instructions on any such sign. A violation of this section, subject
to enforcement by the Police Division, shall constitute a fourth degree
misdemeanor and result in a fine not to exceed $250 per violation.
   (L)   Violation of any of the terms of a permit granted hereunder shall be
cause for immediate revocation or suspension of such permit, and denial of
request for any future permit.
   (M)   No trucks over three-fourth ton rated capacity or those described
above shall be stored on village streets or roadways for any period of time,
unless making deliveries or pick-ups.
(Ord. 87-130, passed 10-19-1987; Ord. 94-122, passed 7-5-1994; Ord. 94-156,
passed 12-19-1994; Ord. 95-141, passed 6-19-1995; Ord. 95-145, passed 6-19-
1995)
CHAPTER 73: MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs
   
73.02   Implied consent
   
73.03   Physical control of vehicle while under the influence
   
73.04   Driving commercial vehicle with impaired alertness or ability; use of
drugs
   
73.05   Reckless operation of vehicles
   
73.06   Reckless operation off streets and highways; competitive operation
   
73.07   Operator to be in reasonable control
   
73.08   Immobilizing or disabling device violation
   
73.09   Street racing defined; prohibited on public highways
   
73.10   Speed limits
   
73.11   Slow speed or stopping
   
73.12   Emergency vehicles excepted from speed limitation
   
73.13   Speed regulations on bridges
   
73.14   Presenting false name or information to officer
   
73.15   Prohibition against resisting officer
   
73.16   Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or
utility vehicles
Stopping After Accident
   
73.30   Failure to stop after accident
   
73.31   Stopping after accident on other than public roads or highways
   
73.32   Accident involving damage to realty
   
73.33   Failure to report accident
Statutory reference:
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
Cross-reference:
   Drug offenses, see
Ch. 138
   General provisions, see
Ch. 70
   Offenses against justice and administration, see
Ch. 136
   Traffic rules, see
Ch. 72
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any vehicle within this municipality,
if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse,
or a combination of them;
         (b)   The person has a concentration of 0.08% or more but less than
0.17% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood;
         (c)   The person has a concentration of 0.096% or more but less than
0.204% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma;
         (d)   The person has a concentration of 0.08 grams or more but less
than 0.17 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath;
         (e)   The person has a concentration of 0.11 grams or more but less
than 0.238 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s
urine;
         (f)   The person has a concentration of 0.17% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood;
         (g)   The person has a concentration of 0.204% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or plasma;
         (h)   The person has a concentration of 0.17 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath;
         (i)   The person has a concentration of 0.238 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine; or
         (j)   Except as provided in division (K) of this section, the person
has a concentration of any of the following controlled substances or
metabolites of a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum
or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds any of the following:
            1.   The person has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s
urine of at least 500 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter
of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma;
            2.   The person has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s
urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s urine
or has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma;
            3.   The person has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s urine or has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms of
cocaine metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma;
            4.   The person has a concentration of heroin in the person’s urine
of at least 2,000 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s urine or
has a concentration of heroin in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma;
            5.   The person has a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-
monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s urine of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s urine or has
a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s whole blood
or blood serum or plasma;
            6.   The person has a concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s urine
of at least 25 nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s urine or a
concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of
at least ten nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma;
            7.   The person has a concentration of marijuana in the person’s
urine of at least ten nanograms of marijuana per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of marijuana in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least two nanograms of marijuana per milliliter of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma;
            8.   Either of the following applies:
               A.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or a combination of them, and the person has a concentration of
marijuana metabolite in the person’s urine of at least 15 nanograms of
marijuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s urine or has a
concentration of marijuana metabolite in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least five nanograms of marijuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma; or
               B.   The person has a concentration of marijuana metabolite in
the person’s urine of at least 35 nanograms of marijuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s urine or has a concentration of marijuana metabolite
in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms
of marijuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma.
            9.   The person has a concentration of methamphetamine in the
person’s urine of at least 500 nanograms of methamphetamine per milliliter of
the person’s urine or has a concentration of methamphetamine in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of
methamphetamine per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma;
            10.   The person has a concentration of phencyclidine in the
person’s urine of at least 25 nanograms of phencyclidine per milliliter of the
person’s urine or has a concentration of phencyclidine in the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 10 nanograms of phencyclidine per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma; or
            11.   The State Board of Pharmacy has adopted a rule pursuant to
R.C. § 4729.041 that specifies the amount of salvia divinorum and the amount of
salvinorin A that constitute concentrations of salvia divinorum and salvinorin
A in a person’s urine, in a person’s whole blood, or in a person’s blood serum
or plasma at or above which the person is impaired for purposes of operating
any vehicle within this state, the rule is in effect, and the person has a
concentration of salvia divinorum or salvinorin A of at least that amount so
specified by rule in the person’s urine, in the person’s whole blood, or in the
person’s blood serum or plasma.
      (2)   No person who, within 20 years of the conduct described in division
(A)(2)(a) of this section, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of this division or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) or (B) of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or any other
equivalent offense shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Operate any vehicle within this municipality while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         (b)   Subsequent to being arrested for operating the vehicle as
described in division (A)(2)(a) of this section, being asked by a law
enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and being advised by the
officer in accordance with R.C. § 4511.192 or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance of the consequences of the person’s refusal or submission
to the test or tests, refuse to submit to the test or tests.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall operate any vehicle within this
municipality, if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02% but less than
0.08% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood;
      (2)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.03% but less than
0.096% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma;
      (3)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02 grams but less than
0.08 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath; or
      (4)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.028 grams but less
than 0.11 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
   (C)   In any proceeding arising out of one incident, a person may be charged
with a violation of division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(2) and a violation of division
(B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section, but the person may not be convicted
of more than one violation of these divisions.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding
for a violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section or for an equivalent
offense that is vehicle-related, the result of any test of any blood or urine
withdrawn and analyzed at any health care provider, as defined in R.C. §
2317.02, may be admitted with expert testimony to be considered with any other
relevant and competent evidence in determining the guilt or innocence of the
defendant.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) or
(B) of this section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, the
court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of abuse,
controlled substances, metabolites of a controlled substance, or a combination
of them in the defendant’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine,
or other bodily substance at the time of the alleged violation as shown by
chemical analysis of the substance withdrawn within three hours of the time of
the alleged violation. The three-hour time limit specified in this division
regarding the admission of evidence does not extend or affect the two-hour time
limit specified in R.C. § 4511.192(A) as the maximum period of time during
which a person may consent to a chemical test or tests as described in that
section. The court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of
abuse, or a combination of them as described in this division (D)(1)(b) when a
person submits to a blood test at the request of a law enforcement officer
under R.C. § 4511.191 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a
blood or urine sample is obtained pursuant to a search warrant. Only a
physician, a registered nurse, an emergency medical technician-intermediate, an
emergency medical technician-paramedic, or a qualified technician, chemist, or
phlebotomist shall withdraw a blood sample for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the whole blood, blood serum, or blood plasma. This
limitation does not apply to the taking of breath or urine specimens. A person
authorized to withdraw blood under this division (D)(1)(b) may refuse to
withdraw blood under this division (D)(1)(b), if in that person’s opinion, the
physical welfare of the person would be endangered by the withdrawing of blood.
The bodily substance withdrawn under this division (D)(1)(b) shall be analyzed
in accordance with methods approved by the Director of Health by an individual
possessing a valid permit issued by the Director pursuant to R.C. § 3701.143.
         (c)   As used in division (D)(1)(b) of this section, EMERGENCY MEDICAL
TECHNICIAN-INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4765.01.
      (2)   In a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) of this
section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, if there was at
the time the bodily substance was withdrawn a concentration of less than the
applicable concentration of alcohol specified in divisions (A)(1)(b), (A)(1)
(c), (A)(1)(d) and (A)(1)(e) of this section or less than the applicable
concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance specified for a violation of division (A)(1)(j) of this
section, that fact may be considered with other competent evidence in
determining the guilt or innocence of the defendant. This division does not
limit or affect a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (B) of this
section.
      (3)   Upon the request of the person who was tested, the results of the
chemical test shall be made available to the person or the person’s attorney,
immediately upon the completion of the chemical test analysis. If the chemical
test was obtained pursuant to division (D)(1)(b) of this section, the person
tested may have a physician, a registered nurse, or a qualified technician,
chemist, or phlebotomist of the person’s own choosing administer a chemical
test or tests, at the person’s expense, in addition to any administered at the
request of a law enforcement officer. If the person was under arrest as
described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the arresting officer shall advise the
person at the time of the arrest that the person may have an independent
chemical test taken at the person’s own expense. If the person was under arrest
other than described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the form to be read to the
person to be tested, as required under §
73.02, shall state that the person may have an independent test performed at
the person’s expense. The failure or inability to obtain an additional chemical
test by a person shall not preclude the admission of evidence relating to the
chemical test or tests taken at the request of a law enforcement officer.
      (4)   (a)   As used in division (D)(4)(b) and (D)(4)(c) of this section,
NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION means the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration established as an administration of the United
States Department of Transportation under 96 Stat. 2415 (1983), 49 U.S.C. §
105.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, of a municipal ordinance
relating to operating a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or alcohol and a drug of abuse, or of a municipal ordinance relating to
operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine, if a law enforcement officer has
administered a field sobriety test to the operator of the vehicle involved in
the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally accepted field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including,
but not limited to, any testing standards then in effect that were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply.
            1.   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
            2.   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field
sobriety test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding.
            3.   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (D)(4)(b)1. or (D)(4)(b)2. of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
         (c)   Division (D)(4)(b) of this section does not limit or preclude a
court, in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (D)(4)(b) of this section.
   (E)   (1)   Subject to division (E)(3) of this section, in any criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a violation of division (A)(1)(b),
(A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), (A)(1)(e), (A)(1)(f), (A)(1)(g), (A)(1)(h), (A)(1)(i), or
(A)(1)(j) or (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section or for an
equivalent offense that is substantially equivalent to any of those divisions,
a laboratory report from any laboratory personnel issued a permit by the
Department of Health authorizing an analysis as described in this division (E)
that contains an analysis of the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath,
urine, or other bodily substance tested and that contains all of the
information specified in this division (E) shall be admitted as prima facie
evidence of the information and statements that the report contains. The
laboratory report shall contain all of the following:
         (a)   The signature, under oath, of any person who performed the
analysis;
         (b)   Any findings as to the identity and quantity of alcohol, a drug
of abuse, a controlled substance, a metabolite of a controlled substance, or a
combination of them that was found;
         (c)   A copy of a notarized statement by the laboratory director of a
designee of the director that contains the name of each certified analyst or
test performer involved with the report, the analyst’s or test performer’s
employment relationship with the laboratory that issued the report, and a
notation that performing an analysis of the type involved is part of the
analyst’s or test performer’s regular duties;
         (d)   An outline of the analyst’s or test performer’s education,
training, and experience in performing the type of analysis involved and a
certification that the laboratory satisfies appropriate quality control
standards in general and, in this particular analysis, under rules of the
Department of Health.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law regarding the admission
of evidence, a report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
is not admissible against the defendant to whom it pertains in any proceeding,
other than a preliminary hearing or a grand jury proceeding, unless the
prosecutor has served a copy of the report on the defendant’s attorney or, if
the defendant has no attorney, on the defendant.
      (3)   A report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents, identity, or amount of any
substance if, within seven days after the defendant to whom the report pertains
or the defendant’s attorney receives a copy of the report, the defendant or the
defendant’s attorney demands the testimony of the person who signed the report.
The judge in the case may extend the seven-day time limit in the interest of
justice.
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (F), any
physician, registered nurse, emergency medical technician-intermediate,
emergency medical technician-paramedic, or qualified technician, chemist, or
phlebotomist who withdraws blood from a person pursuant to this section or R.C.
§§ 4511.19, 4511.191 or 4511.192, and any hospital, first-aid station, or
clinic at which blood is withdrawn from a person pursuant to this section or
R.C. §§ 4511.19, 4511.191 or 4511.192, is immune from criminal liability and
civil liability based upon a claim of assault and battery or any other claim
that is not a claim of malpractice, for any act performed in withdrawing blood
from the person. The immunity provided in this division (F) also extends to an
emergency medical service organization that employs an emergency medical
technician-intermediate or emergency medical technician-paramedic who withdraws
blood under this section. The immunity provided in this division (F) is not
available to a person who withdraws blood if the person engages in willful or
wanton misconduct.
      (2)   As used in division (F)(1), EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-
INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 4765.01.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates any provisions of divisions (A)(1)(a) through
(A)(1)(i) or (A)(2) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them. Whoever
violates division (A)(1)(j) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle
while under the influence of a listed controlled substance or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance. The court shall sentence the offender for
either offense under R.C. Chapter 2929, except as otherwise authorized or
required by divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) of this section.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(b), (G)(1)(c),
(G)(1)(d), or (G)(1)(e) of this section, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree, and the court shall sentence the offender to
all of the penalties and sanctions provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a)(i)
through (G)(1)(a)(iv).
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of division (A) or (B) of this
section or one other equivalent offense is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and
sanctions provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) through (G)(1)(b)(v).
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (A) or (B) of this
section or other equivalent offenses is guilty of a misdemeanor. The court
shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions provided in
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c)(i) through (G)(1)(c)(vi).
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division (A) or
(B) of this section or other equivalent offenses or an offender who, within 20
years of the offense, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
five or more violations of that nature is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
         (e)   An offender who previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) that was a felony, regardless of
when the violation and the conviction or guilty plea occurred, is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   An offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section and who subsequently seeks reinstatement of the
driver’s or occupational driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege suspended under this section or R.C. § 4511.19 as a result of the
conviction or guilty plea shall pay a reinstatement fee as provided in R.C. §
4511.191(F)(2).
      (3)   (a)   If an offender is sentenced to a jail term under R.C. §
4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) or (G)(1)(b)(ii) or (G)(1)(c)(i) or (G)(1)(c)(ii) and if,
within 60 days of sentencing of the offender, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the term, the offender will not be able
to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following the date of
sentencing, the court may impose an alternative sentence as specified in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3) that includes a term of house arrest with electronic monitoring,
with continuous alcohol monitoring, or with both electronic monitoring and
continuous alcohol monitoring.
         (b)   As an alternative to the mandatory jail terms as required by
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1), the court may sentence the offender as provided in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3).
      (4)   If an offender’s driver’s or occupational driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is suspended under division (G) of
this section or R.C. § 4511.19(G) and if R.C. § 4510.13 permits the court to
grant limited driving privileges, the court may grant the limited driving
privileges in accordance with that section. If division (A)(7) of that section
requires the court impose as a condition of the privileges that the offender
must display on the vehicle that is driven subject to the privileges restricted
license plates that are issued under R.C. § 4503.231, except as provided in
division (B) of that section, the court shall impose that condition as one of
the conditions of the limited driving privileges granted to the offender,
except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (5)   Fines imposed under this section for a violation of division (A) of
this section shall be distributed as provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(5).
      (6)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order of criminal
forfeiture under division (G)(1)(c), (G)(1)(d), or (G)(1)(e) of this section is
assigned or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in
addition to or independent of any other penalty established by law, the court
may fine the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of
the National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds of any fine so
imposed shall be distributed in accordance with division (C)(2) of that
section.
      (7)   In all cases in which an offender is sentenced under division (G)
of this section, the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, the court, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. §§ 2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for
any economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and
proximate result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under this
division (G).
      (8)   A court may order an offender to reimburse a law enforcement agency
for any costs incurred by the agency with respect to a chemical test or tests
administered to the offender if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section.
         (b)   The test or tests were of the offender’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, or urine.
         (c)   The test or tests indicated that the offender had a prohibited
concentration of a controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled
substance in the offender’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine at the
time of the offense.
      (9)   As used in division (G) of this section, ELECTRONIC MONITORING has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of operating a
motor vehicle after underage alcohol consumption and shall be punished as
follows.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (H)(2) of this section,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. In addition to
any other sanction imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class six
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege form the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6). The court may grant
limited driving privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021
and 4510.13. The court may grant unlimited driving privileges with an ignition
interlock device relative to the suspension and may reduce the period of
suspension as authorized under R.C. § 4510.022. If the court grants unlimited
driving privileges under R.C. § 4510.022, the court shall suspend any jail term
imposed under division (H)(1) of this section as required under that section.
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of division (A)
or (B) of this section or other equivalent offense or offenses, the offender is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition to any other sanction
imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class four suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4). The court may grant limited driving
privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021 and 4510.13.
      (3)   If the offender also is convicted of or also pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1414 and if the court
imposes a jail term for the violation of division (B) of this section, the
court shall impose upon the offender an additional definite jail term pursuant
to R.C. § 2929.24(E).
      (4)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the violation of division (B) of this section.
   (I)   (1)   No court shall sentence an offender to an alcohol treatment
program under this section unless the treatment program complies with the
minimum standards for alcohol treatment programs adopted under R.C. Chapter
5119 by the Director of Mental Health and Addiction Services.
      (2)   An offender who stays in a drivers’ intervention program or in an
alcohol treatment program under an order issued under this section shall pay
the cost of the stay in the program. However, if the court determines that an
offender who stays in an alcohol treatment program under an order issued under
this section is unable to pay the cost of the stay in the program, the court
may order that the cost be paid from the court’s Indigent Drivers’ Alcohol
Treatment Fund.
   (J)   If a person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege is suspended under this section or R.C. §
4511.19 files an appeal regarding any aspect of the person’s trial or sentence,
the appeal itself does not stay the operation of the suspension.
   (K)   Division (A)(1)(j) of this section does not apply to a person who
operates a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed controlled
substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s
whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds the amount
specified in that division, if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs; and
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
   (L)   The prohibited concentrations of a controlled substance or a
metabolite of a controlled substance listed in division (A)(1)(j) of this
section also apply in a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2923.16(D) in the
same manner as if the offender is being prosecuted for a prohibited
concentration of alcohol.
   (M)   All terms defined in R.C. § 4510.01 apply to this section. If the
meaning of a term defined in R.C. § 4510.01 conflicts with the meaning of the
same term as defined in R.C. §§ 4501.01 or 4511.01, the term as defined in R.C.
§ 4510.01 applies to this section.
(R.C. § 4511.19(A) - (M))
   (N)   As used in this section, §
73.02 and §
73.03:
      COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2929.01.
      CONTINUOUS ALCOHOL MONITORING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B);
         (b)   A violation of a municipal OVI ordinance;
         (c)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in a case in which the offender
was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that section;
         (d)   A violation of R.C. §§ 2903.06(A)(1) or 2903.08 or a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to either of those divisions;
         (e)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4), R.C. §
2903.08(A)(2), or former R.C. § 2903.07, or a municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to any of those divisions or that former section, in a
case in which a judge or jury as the trier of fact found that the offender was
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         (f)   A violation of R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B);
         (g)   A violation of a municipal ordinance prohibiting a person from
operating or being in physical control of any vessel underway or from
manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar device on the waters of this
state while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination
of them or prohibiting a person from operating or being in physical control of
any vessel underway or from manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar
device on the waters of this state with a prohibited concentration of alcohol,
a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine;
         (h)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B); and
         (i)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B).
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE THAT IS VEHICLE-RELATED. An equivalent offense that is
any of the following:
         (a)   A violation described in division (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e) of
the definition for “equivalent offense” provided in this division (N);
         (b)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B); or
         (c)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B).
      JAIL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM. The mandatory term in jail of three, six, ten, 20,
30, or 60 days that must be imposed under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a), (G)(1)(b),
or (G)(1)(c) upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of that
section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to R.C. §§ 2929.21
through 2929.28 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY TERM OF LOCAL INCARCERATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2929.01.
      MUNICIPAL OVI ORDINANCE and MUNICIPAL OVI OFFENSE. Any municipal
ordinance prohibiting a person from operating a vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or prohibiting
a person from operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
      PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
(R.C. § 4511.181)
(Ord. 98-127, passed 5-18-1998; Ord. 2003-050, passed 9-15-2003)
Cross-reference:
   Endangering children, see §
135.14
   Power to suspend driver’s license, see §
73.05
Statutory reference:
   Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see R.C. § 4510.13
   Trial judge to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. § 4510.05
§ 73.02 IMPLIED CONSENT.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section:
         ALCOHOL MONITORING DEVICE. Means any device that provides for
continuous alcohol monitoring, any ignition interlock device, any immobilizing
or disabling device other than an ignition interlock device that is constantly
available to monitor the concentration of alcohol in a person’s system, or any
other device that provides for the automatic testing and periodic reporting of
alcohol consumption by a person and that a court orders a person to use as a
sanction imposed as a result of the person’s conviction of or plea of guilty to
an offense.
         COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 5119.01.
         PHYSICAL CONTROL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.194.
      (2)   Any person who operates a vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for vehicular travel or parking within this
municipality or who is in physical control of a vehicle shall be deemed to have
given consent to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine to determine the alcohol, drug of abuse,
controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or combination
content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine if
arrested for a violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance.
      (3)   The chemical test or tests under division (A)(2) of this section
shall be administered at the request of a law enforcement officer having
reasonable grounds to believe the person was operating or in physical control
of a vehicle in violation of a division, section, or ordinance identified in
division (A)(2) of this section. The law enforcement agency by which the
officer is employed shall designate which of the tests shall be administered.
      (4)   Any person who is dead or unconscious, or who otherwise is in a
condition rendering the person incapable of refusal, shall be deemed to have
consented as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, and the test or tests
may be administered, subject to R.C. §§ 313.12 through 313.16.
      (5)   (a)   If a law enforcement officer arrests a person for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance and if the person if
convicted would be required to be sentenced under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c), (d),
or (e), the law enforcement officer shall request the person to submit, and the
person shall submit, to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood,
blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, or urine. A law enforcement officer who makes a request
pursuant to this division that a person submit to a chemical test or tests is
not required to advise the person of the consequences of submitting to, or
refusing to submit to, the test or tests and is not required to give the person
the form described in division (C) of this section, but the officer shall
advise the person at the time of the arrest that if the person refuses to take
a chemical test the officer may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. The officer shall also advise the person at the
time of the arrest that the person may have an independent chemical test taken
at the person’s own expense. Divisions (A)(3) and (A)(4) of this section apply
to the administration of a chemical test or tests pursuant to this division.
         (b)   If a person refuses to submit to a chemical test upon a request
made pursuant to division (A)(5)(a) of this section, the law enforcement
officer who made the request may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. A law enforcement officer who acts pursuant to
this division to ensure that a person submits to a chemical test of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma is immune from criminal and civil
liability based upon a claim for assault and battery or any other claim for the
acts, unless the officer so acted with malicious purpose, in bad faith, or in a
wanton or reckless manner.
(R.C. § 4511.191(A))
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, the arresting
law enforcement officer shall give advice in accordance with this section to
any person under arrest for a violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance. The officer shall
give that advice in a written form that contains the information described in
division (C) of this section and shall read the advice to the person. The form
shall contain a statement that the form was shown to the person under arrest
and read to the person by the arresting officer. One or more persons shall
witness the arresting officer’s reading of the form, and the witnesses shall
certify to this fact by signing the form. The person must submit to the
chemical test or tests, subsequent to the request of the arresting officer,
within two hours of the time of the alleged violation and, if the person does
not submit to the test or tests within that two-hour time limit, the failure to
submit automatically constitutes a refusal to submit to the test or tests.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, if a person is
under arrest as described in division (B) of this section, before the person
may be requested to submit to a chemical test or tests to determine the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, or urine, the arresting officer shall read the following form
to the person:
      You now are under arrest for (specifically state the offense under state
law or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for which the person was
arrested – operating a vehicle under the influence of alcohol, a drug, or a
combination of them; operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance;
operating a vehicle after underage alcohol consumption; or having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence).
      If you refuse to take any chemical test required by law, your Ohio
driving privileges will be suspended immediately, and you will have to pay a
fee to have the privileges reinstated. If you have a prior conviction of OVI or
operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed controlled substance
or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance under state or municipal law
within the preceding 20 years, you are now under arrest for state OVI, and, if
you refuse to take a chemical test, you will face increased penalties if you
subsequently are convicted of the state OVI.
   (Read this part unless the person is under arrest for solely having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence.) If you take any chemical test
required by law and are found to be at or over the prohibited amount of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
your whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as set by law, your
Ohio driving privileges will be suspended immediately, and you will have to pay
a fee to have the privileges reinstated.
   If you take a chemical test, you may have an independent chemical test taken
at your own expense.
   (D)   If the arresting law enforcement officer does not ask a person under
arrest as described in division (B) of this section or division (A)(5) of this
section to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this
section, the arresting officer shall seize the Ohio or out-of-state driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit of the person and immediately forward it
to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the charge. If the
arrested person is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is
not in the person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it
to the law enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after
the arrest, and, upon the surrender, the agency immediately shall forward the
license or permit to the court in which the person is to appear on the charge.
Upon receipt of the license or permit, the court shall retain it pending the
arrested person’s initial appearance and any action taken under R.C. §
4511.196.
   (E)   (1)   If a law enforcement officer asks a person under arrest as
described in division (A)(5) of this section to submit to a chemical test or
tests under that division and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, or if a law enforcement
officer asks a person under arrest as described in division (B) of this section
to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this section, if
the officer advises the person in accordance with this section of the
consequences of the person’s refusal or submission, and if either the person
refuses to submit to the test or tests or, unless the arrest was for a
violation of §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the
person submits to the test or tests and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, the arresting officer
shall do all of the following:
         (a)   On behalf of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, notify the person
that, independent of any penalties or sanctions imposed upon the person, the
person’s Ohio driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege is suspended immediately, that the suspension will last at
least until the person’s initial appearance on the charge, which will be held
within five days after the date of the person’s arrest or the issuance of a
citation to the person, and that the person may appeal the suspension at the
initial appearance or during the period of time ending 30 days after that
initial appearance;
         (b)   Seize the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit of
the person and immediately forward it to the Registrar. If the arrested person
is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is not in the
person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it to the law
enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after the person is
given notice of the suspension, and, upon the surrender, the officer’s
employing agency immediately shall forward the license or permit to the
Registrar;
         (c)   Verify the person’s current residence and, if it differs from
that on the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, notify
the Registrar of the change;
         (d)   Send to the Registrar, within 48 hours after the arrest of the
person, a sworn report that includes all of the following statements:
            1.   That the officer had reasonable grounds to believe that, at
the time of the arrest, the arrested person was operating a vehicle in
violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or a municipal OVI ordinance or for being
in physical control of a stationary vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   That the person was arrested and charged with a violation of
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance;
            3.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that the
officer asked the person to take the designated chemical test or tests, advised
the person in accordance with this section of the consequences of submitting
to, or refusing to take, the test or tests, and gave the person the form
described in division (C) of this section;
            4.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that
either the person refused to submit to the chemical test or tests or, unless
the arrest was for a violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the person submitted to the chemical test or tests and the
test results indicate a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time of the alleged
offense.
            5.   If the person was under arrest as described in division (A)(5)
of this section and the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance
with that division, that the person was under arrest as described in that
division, that the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance with
that division, and that test results indicated a prohibited concentration of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time
of the alleged offense.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
arrested for a violation of §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, who
is asked by a law enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests
under this section, and who submits to the test or tests, regardless of the
amount of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled
substance that the test results indicate is present in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
   (F)   The arresting officer shall give the officer’s sworn report that is
completed under this section to the arrested person at the time of the arrest,
or the Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall send the report to the person by
regular first class mail as soon as possible after receipt of the report, but
not later than 14 days after receipt of it. An arresting officer may give an
unsworn report to the arrested person at the time of the arrest provided the
report is complete when given to the arrested person and subsequently is sworn
to by the arresting officer. As soon as possible, but not later than 48 hours
after the arrest of the person, the arresting officer shall send a copy of the
sworn report to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the
charge for which the person was arrested.
   (G)   The sworn report of an arresting officer completed under this section
is prima facie proof of the information and statements that it contains. It
shall be admitted and considered as prima facie proof of the information and
statements that it contains in any appeal under R.C. § 4511.197 relative to any
suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege that results from the arrest covered by the
report.
(R.C. § 4511.192)
   (H)   (1)   A suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit or nonresident operating privilege under this section for the
time described in R.C. § 4511.191(B) or (C) is effective immediately from the
time at which the arresting officer serves the notice of suspension upon the
arrested person. Any subsequent finding that the person is not guilty of the
charge that resulted in the person’s being requested to take the chemical test
or tests under division (A) of this section does not affect the suspension.
      (2)   If a person arrested for operating a vehicle in violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), or any other municipal OVI
ordinance, or for being in physical control of a vehicle in violation of §
73.03 or R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
regardless of whether the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is or is not suspended under R.C. §
4511.191(B) or (C) or R.C. Chapter 4510, the person’s initial appearance on the
charge resulting from the arrest shall be held within five days of the persons’
arrest or the issuance of the citation to him or her, subject to any
continuance granted by the court pursuant to R.C. § 4511.197 regarding the
issues specified in that section.
(R.C. § 4511.191(D))
Statutory reference:
   Continuous alcohol monitoring, see R.C. § 4511.198
   Disposition of fines, immobilization of vehicle and impoundment of license
plates, criminal forfeiture for municipal ordinance conviction, see R.C. §
4511.193
   Effect of refusal to submit to test, seizure of license, suspension periods,
appeal procedures, occupational driving privileges, and Indigent Drivers
Alcohol Treatment Funds, see R.C. § 4511.191
   Judicial pretrial suspension, initial appearance, see R.C. § 4511.196
   Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see R.C. § 4510.13
   Seizure of vehicles upon arrest, see R.C. § 4511.195
§ 73.03 PHYSICAL CONTROL OF VEHICLE WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, PHYSICAL CONTROL means being in the driver’s
position of the front seat of a vehicle and having possession of the vehicle’s
ignition key or other ignition device.
   (B)   No person shall be in physical control of a vehicle if, at the time of
the physical control, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them.
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains at least the concentration of alcohol specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(b), (A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), or (A)(1)(e).
      (3)   Except as provided in division (E) of this section, the person has
a concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or
urine that equals or exceeds the concentration specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(j).
   (C)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of this section, if a law enforcement officer has administered a
field sobriety test to the person in physical control of the vehicle involved
in the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally acceptable field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect what were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
         (a)   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
         (b)   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field sobriety
test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal prosecution
or juvenile court proceeding.
         (c)   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence, and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not limit or preclude a court,
in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (C)(1) of this section.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having physical control of
a vehicle while under the influence, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In
addition to other sanctions imposed, the court may impose on the offender a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
   (E)   Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person who is in
physical control of a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the
person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds
the amount specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(j) if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
(R.C. § 4511.194)
§ 73.04 DRIVING COMMERCIAL VEHICLE WITH IMPAIRED ALERTNESS OR ABILITY; USE OF
DRUGS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4506.01, or a commercial car or commercial tractor, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, while the person’s ability or alertness is so impaired by fatigue,
illness, or other causes that it is unsafe for the person to drive such
vehicle. No driver shall use any drug which would adversely affect the driver’s
ability or alertness.
   (B)   No owner, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, of a commercial motor vehicle,
commercial car or commercial tractor, or a person employing or otherwise
directing the driver of such vehicle, shall require or knowingly permit a
driver in any such condition described in division (A) of this section to drive
such vehicle upon any street or highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.79, or R.C. §§ 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, or
4511.77 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.79)
§ 73.05 RECKLESS OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any street or highway in willful
or wanton disregard of the safety of persons or property.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.20)
Cross-reference:
   License suspension, see §
71.25
§ 73.06 RECKLESS OPERATION OFF STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; COMPETITIVE OPERATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any public or private
property other than streets or highways in willful or wanton disregard of the
safety of persons or property.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the competitive operation of
vehicles on public or private property when the owner of such property
knowingly permits such operation thereon.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.201)
Cross-reference:
   License suspension, see §
71.25
§ 73.07 OPERATOR TO BE IN REASONABLE CONTROL.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, agricultural tractor, or
agricultural tractor that is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing a unit of
farm machinery on any street, highway, or property open to the public for
vehicular traffic without being in reasonable control of the vehicle,
agricultural tractor, or unit of farm machinery.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or agricultural tractor without being in control of it, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.202)
§ 73.08 IMMOBILIZING OR DISABLING DEVICE VIOLATION.
   (A)   (1)   No offender who has been granted limited or unlimited driving
privileges, during any period that the offender is required to operate only a
motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, shall request
or permit any other person to breathe into the device if it is an ignition
interlock device or another type of device that monitors the concentration of
alcohol in a person’s breath or to otherwise start the motor vehicle equipped
with the device, for the purpose of providing the offender with an operable
motor vehicle.
      (2)   No person shall breathe into an immobilizing or disabling device
that is an ignition interlock device or another type of device that monitors
the concentration of alcohol in a person’s breath or otherwise start a motor
vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, for the purpose of
providing an operable motor vehicle to another person who has been granted
limited or unlimited driving privileges under the condition that the person
operate only a motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device.
      (3)   No unauthorized person shall tamper with or circumvent the
operation of an immobilizing or disabling device.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an immobilizing or
disabling device violation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4510.44)
§ 73.09 STREET RACING DEFINED; PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   As used in this section, STREET RACING means the operation of two or
more vehicles from a point side by side at accelerating speeds in a competitive
attempt to outdistance each other, or the operation of one or more vehicles
over a common selected course, from the same point to the same point, wherein
timing is made of the participating vehicles involving competitive
accelerations or speeds. Persons rendering assistance in any manner to such
competitive use of vehicles shall be equally charged as the participants. The
operation of two or more vehicles side by side either at speeds in excess of
prima facie lawful speeds established by R.C. § 4511.21(B)(1)(a) through (B)(9)
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or rapidly accelerating from
a common starting point to a speed in excess of such prima facie lawful speeds
shall be prima facie evidence of street racing.
   (B)   No person shall participate in street racing upon any public road,
street, or highway in this municipality.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of street racing, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to any other sanctions, the court
shall suspend the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privileges for not less than 30 days or more than three years. No judge shall
suspend the first 30 days of any suspension of an offender’s license, permit,
or privilege imposed under this division.
(R.C. § 4511.251)
§ 73.10 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater or less
than is reasonable or proper, having due regard for the traffic, surface, and
width of the street or highway and any other conditions, and no person shall
drive any motor vehicle in and upon any street or highway at a greater speed
than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
   (B)   It is prima facie lawful, in the absence of a lower limit declared or
established pursuant to this section by the Director of Transportation or local
authorities, for the operator of a motor vehicle to operate the same at a speed
not exceeding the following:
      (1)   (a)   Twenty miles per hour in school zones during school recess
and while children are going to or leaving school during the opening or closing
hours, and when 20 miles per hour school speed limit signs are erected, except
that on controlled-access highways and expressways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by division (B)(4) of this section, and on freeways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by divisions (B)(10) and (B)(11) of this section. The end of every school zone
may be marked by a sign indicating the end of the zone. Nothing in this section
or in the Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control
Devices shall be construed to require school zones to be indicated by signs
equipped with flashing or other lights, or giving other special notice of the
hours in which the school zone speed limit is in effect.
         (b)   As used in this section, SCHOOL means all of the following:
            1.   Any school chartered under R.C. § 3301.16;
            2.   Any nonchartered school that during the preceding year filed
with the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce in compliance with O.A.C. §
3301-35-08, a copy of the school's report for the parents of the school's
pupils certifying that the school meets state minimum standards for
nonchartered, nontax-supported schools and presents evidence of this filing to
the jurisdiction from which it is requesting the establishment of a school
zone;
            3.   Any special elementary school that in writing requests the
County Engineer to create a school zone at the location of the school. Upon
receipt of such written request, the County Engineer shall create a school zone
at that location by erecting appropriate signs;
            4.   Any preschool education program operated by an educational
service center that is located on a street or highway with a speed limit of 45
miles per hour or more, when the educational service center in writing requests
that the County Engineer create a school zone at the location of that program.
Upon receipt of such a written request, the County Engineer shall create a
school zone at that location by erecting the appropriate signs.
         (c)   As used in this section, SCHOOL ZONE means that portion of a
street or highway passing a school fronting upon the street or highway that is
encompassed by projecting the school property lines to the fronting street or
highway, and also includes that portion of a state highway. Upon request from
local authorities for streets and highways under their jurisdiction and that
portion of a state highway under the jurisdiction of the Director of
Transportation or a request from a County Engineer in the case of a school zone
for a special elementary school, the Director may extend the traditional school
zone boundaries. The distances in divisions (B)(1)(c)1. through (B)(1)(c)3.
below shall not exceed 300 feet per approach per direction, and are bounded by
whichever of the following distances or combination thereof the Director
approves as most appropriate:
            1.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school building
lines normal to the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            2.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school property
lines intersecting the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            3.   The distance encompassed by the special marking of the
pavement for a principal school pupil crosswalk plus a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction of the highway.
         (d)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the
Director’s initial action on August 9, 1976, establishing all school zones at
the traditional school zone boundaries defined by projecting school property
lines, except when those boundaries are extended as provided in divisions (B)
(1)(a) and (B)(1)(c) of this section.
         (e)   As used in this division, CROSSWALK has the meaning given that
term in R.C. § 4511.01(LL)(2).
         (f)   The Director may, upon request by resolution of the Legislative
Authority and upon submission by the municipality of such engineering, traffic,
and other information as the Director considers necessary, designate a school
zone on any portion of a state route lying within the municipality that
includes a crosswalk customarily used by children going to or leaving a school
during recess and opening and closing hours, whenever the distance, as measured
in a straight line, from the school property line nearest the crosswalk to the
nearest point of a crosswalk is no more than 1,320 feet. Such a school zone
shall include the distance encompassed by the crosswalk and extending 300 feet
in each appropriate direction of the state route.
         (g)   As used in this section, SPECIAL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL means a
school that meets all of the following:
            1.   It is not chartered and does not receive tax revenue from any
source.
            2.   It does not educate children beyond the eighth grade.
            3.   It is located outside the limits of a municipal corporation.
            4.   A majority of the total number of students enrolled at the
school are not related by blood.
            5.   The principal or other person in charge of the special
elementary school annually sends a report to the superintendent of the school
district in which the special elementary school is located indicating the total
number of students enrolled at the school, but otherwise the principal or other
person in charge does not report any other information or data to the
superintendent.
      (2)   Twenty-five miles per hour in all other portions of the
municipality, except on state routes outside business districts, through
highways outside business districts, and alleys;
      (3)   Thirty-five miles per hour on all state routes or through highways
within the municipality outside business districts, except as provided in
divisions (B)(4) and (B)(6) of this section;
      (4)   Fifty miles per hour on controlled-access highways and expressways
within the municipality, except as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)
(14), (B)(15), and (B)(16) of this section;
      (5)   Fifty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality,
other than highways within island jurisdictions as provided in division (B)(8)
of this section, highways as provided in divisions (B)(9) and (B)(10) of this
section, and highways, expressways and freeways as provided in divisions (B)
(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), and (B)(16) of this section;
      (6)   Fifty miles per hour on state routes within the municipality
outside urban districts unless a lower prima facie speed is established as
further provided in this section;
      (7)   Fifteen miles per hour on all alleys within the municipality;
      (8)   Thirty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality
that are within an island jurisdiction;
      (9)   Thirty-five miles per hour on through highways, except state
routes, that are outside municipal corporations and that are within a national
park with boundaries extending through two or more counties;
      (10)   Sixty miles per hour on two-lane state routes outside municipal
corporations as established by the Director under R.C. § 4511.21(H)(2);
      (11)   Fifty-five miles per hour on freeways with paved shoulders inside
the municipality, other than freeways as provided in divisions (B)(14) and (B)
(16) of this section;
      (12)   Sixty miles per hour on rural expressways with traffic control
signals and on all portions of rural divided highways, except as provided in
divisions (B)(13) and (B)(14) of this section;
      (13)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all rural expressways without traffic
control signals;
      (14)   Seventy miles per hour on all rural freeways;
      (15)   Fifty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways in congested areas as determined by the Director and that are
located within a municipal corporation or within an interstate freeway
outerbelt, except as provided in division (B)(16) of this section;
      (16)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways without traffic control signals in urbanized areas.
   (C)   It is prima facie unlawful for any person to exceed any of the speed
limitations in divisions (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)
(8) and (B)(9) of this section or any declared or established pursuant to this
section by the Director or local authorities and it is unlawful for any person
to exceed any of the speed limitations in division (D) of this section. No
person shall be convicted of more than one violation of this section for the
same conduct, although violations of more than one provision of this section
may be charged in the alternative in a single affidavit.
   (D)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon a street or highway as
follows:
      (1)   At a speed exceeding 55 miles per hour, except upon a two-lane
state route as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway,
expressway or freeway as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), and
(B)(16) of this section;
      (2)   At a speed exceeding 60 miles per hour upon a two-lane state route
as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway as provided
in division (B)(12) of this section;
      (3)   At a speed exceeding 65 miles per hour upon an expressway as
provided in division (B)(13) of this section or upon a freeway as provided in
division (B)(16) of this section, except upon a freeway as provided in division
(B)(14) of this section;
      (4)   At a speed exceeding 70 miles per hour upon a freeway as provided
in division (B)(14) of this section;
      (5)   At a speed exceeding the posted speed limit upon a highway,
expressway or freeway for which the Director has determined and declared a
speed limit pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(I)(2) or (L)(2).
   (E)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(E), in every charge of violating this
section, the affidavit and warrant shall specify the time, place and speed at
which the defendant is alleged to have driven, and in charges made in reliance
upon division (C) of this section also the speed which division (B)(1)(a), (B)
(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared
or established pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21 declares is prima
facie lawful at the time and place of such alleged violation, except that in
affidavits where a person is alleged to have driven at a greater speed than
will permit the person to bring the vehicle to stop within the assured clear
distance ahead, the affidavit and warrant need not specify the speed at which
the defendant is alleged to have driven.
   (F)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(F), when a speed in excess of both a prima
facie limitation and a limitation in division (D) of this section is alleged,
the defendant shall be charged in a single affidavit, alleging a single act,
with a violation indicated of both division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4),
(B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of this section, or of a limit declared or
established pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.21 by the Director or local
authorities, and of the limitation in division (D) of this section. If the
court finds a violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6),
(B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared or established pursuant to,
this section or R.C. § 4511.21 has occurred, it shall enter a judgment of
conviction under such division and dismiss the charge under division (D) of
this section. If it finds no violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3),
(B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared or established
pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21, it shall then consider whether the
evidence supports a conviction under division (D) of this section.
   (G)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(G), points shall be assessed for a
violation of a limitation under division (D) of this section in accordance with
R.C. § 4510.036.
(R.C. § 4511.21(A) - (G))
   (H)   Whenever, in accordance with R.C. § 4511.21(H) through (N), the
maximum prima facie speed limitations as established herein have been altered,
either higher or lower, and the appropriate signs giving notice have been
erected as required, operators of motor vehicles shall be governed by the speed
limitations set forth on such signs. It is prima facie unlawful for any person
to exceed the speed limits posted upon such signs.
   (I)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL BUS. Means a motor vehicle designed for carrying more than
nine passengers and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
      DIVIDED. Means a roadway having two or more travel lanes for vehicles
moving in opposite directions and that is separated by a median of more than
four feet, excluding turn lanes.
      INTERSTATE SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
      NONCOMMERCIAL BUS. Includes but is not limited to a school bus, or a
motor vehicle operated solely for the transportation of persons associated with
a charitable or nonprofit organization.
      OUTERBELT. A portion of a freeway that is part of the interstate system
and is located in the outer vicinity of a major municipal corporation or group
of municipal corporations, as designated by the Director.
      RURAL. Means an area outside urbanized areas and outside of a business or
urban district, and areas that extend within urbanized areas where the roadway
characteristics remain mostly unchanged from those outside the urbanized areas.
      URBANIZED AREA. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
(R.C. § 4511.21(O))
   (J)   Speed limits for private roads and driveways.
      (1)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may establish a speed
limit on the road or driveway by complying with all of the following
requirements:
         (a)   The speed limit is not less than 25 miles per hour and is
indicated by a sign that is in a proper position, is sufficiently legible to be
seen by an ordinarily observant person, and meets the specifications for the
basic speed limit sign included in the manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation pursuant to R.C. § 4511.09;
         (b)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road
or driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road
or driveway that they are entering private property, a speed limit has been
established for the road or driveway, and the speed limit is enforceable by law
enforcement officers under state law.
      (2)   No person shall operate a vehicle upon a private road or driveway
as provided in division (J)(1) of this section at a speed exceeding any speed
limit established and posted pursuant to division (J)(1).
      (3)   When a speed limit is established and posted in accordance with
division (J)(1) of this section, a law enforcement officer may apprehend a
person violating the speed limit of the residential area by utilizing any of
the means described in R.C. § 4511.091 or by any other accepted method of
determining the speed of a motor vehicle and may stop and charge the person
with exceeding the speed limit.
      (4)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.211(D), points shall be assessed for
violation of a speed limit established and posted in accordance with division
(J)(1) of this section in accordance with R.C. § 4510.036.
      (5)   As used in this division (J):
         OWNER. Includes but is not limited to a person who holds title to the
real property in fee simple, a condominium owners’ association, a property
owners’ association, a board of directors or trustees of a private community,
and a nonprofit corporation governing a private community.
         PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS. Does
not include a Chautauqua assembly as defined in R.C. § 4511.90.
(R.C. § 4511.211(A) - (E))
   (K)   Penalties.
      (1)   Divisions (A) through (I).
         (a)   A violation of any provision of divisions (A) through (I) of
this section is one of the following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(1)(a)2., (K)(1)
(a)3., (K)(1)(b), and (K)(1)(c) of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of any provision of
divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any provision of
any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any provision
of that section, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of any
provision of divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any
provision of any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to
any provision of that section, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (b)   If the offender operated a motor vehicle faster than 35 miles an
hour in a business district of the municipality, faster than 50 miles an hour
in other portions of the municipality, or faster than 35 miles an hour in a
school zone during recess or while children are going to or leaving school
during the school's opening or closing hours, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. This division does not apply if penalties may be imposed under division
(K)(1)(a)2. or (K)(1)(a)3. of this section.
         (c)   Notwithstanding division (K)(1)(a) of this section, if the
offender operated a motor vehicle in a construction zone where a sign was then
posted in accordance with R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other
penalties provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times
the usual amount imposed for the violation. No court shall impose a fine of two
times the usual amount imposed for the violation upon an offender if the
offender alleges, in an affidavit filed with the court prior to the offender’s
sentencing, that the offender is indigent and is unable to pay the fine imposed
pursuant to this division and if the court determines that the offender is an
indigent person and unable to pay the fine.
         (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.21(P))
      (2)   Division (J).
         (a)   A violation of division (J)(2) of this section is one of the
following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(2)(a)2. and (K)
(2)(a)3. of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (J)(2) of
this section, R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division
(J)(2) of this section, R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance
that is substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.211(F))
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of speed limits with approval of Director, see R.C. § 4511.21(H)
through (N)
   Arrest pending warrant when radar, electrical or mechanical timing device
used to determine violation, see R.C. § 4511.091
§ 73.11 SLOW SPEED OR STOPPING.
   (A)   No person shall stop or operate a vehicle at such an unreasonably slow
speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic,
except when stopping or reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or to
comply with law.
   (B)   Whenever the Director of Transportation or local authorities determine
on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that slow speeds on
any part of a controlled-access highway, expressway, or freeway consistently
impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, the Director or such
local authority may declare a minimum speed limit below which no person shall
operate a motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe operation or in
compliance with the law. No minimum speed limit established hereunder shall be
less than 30 miles per hour, greater than 50 miles per hour, nor effective
until the provisions of R.C. § 4511.21 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, relating to appropriate signs, have been fulfilled and local
authorities have obtained the approval of the Director.
   (C)   In a case involving a violation of this section, the trier of fact, in
determining whether the vehicle was being operated at an unreasonably slow
speed, shall consider the capabilities of the vehicle and its operator.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.22)
§ 73.12 EMERGENCY VEHICLES EXCEPTED FROM SPEED LIMITATION.
   The prima facie speed limitations set forth in R.C. § 4511.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance do not apply to emergency vehicles
or public safety vehicles when they are responding to emergency calls and are
equipped with and displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating
light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet
to the front of the vehicle, and when the drivers thereof sound audible signals
by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle. This section does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons using the street or highway.
(R.C. § 4511.24)
§ 73.13 SPEED REGULATIONS ON BRIDGES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle over any bridge or other
elevated structure constituting a part of a highway at a speed which is greater
than the maximum speed that can be maintained with safety to such bridge or
structure, when such structure is posted with signs as provided in this
section.
      (2)   The Department of Transportation upon request from any local
authority shall, or upon its own initiative may, conduct an investigation of
any bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part of a highway, and if
it finds that such structure cannot with safety withstand traffic traveling at
the speed otherwise permissible under this Traffic Code, the Department shall
determine and declare the maximum speed of traffic which such structure can
withstand, and shall cause or permit suitable signs stating such maximum speed
to be erected and maintained at a distance of a least 100 feet before each end
of the structure.
      (3)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of this
section, proof of such determination of the maximum speed by the Department and
the existence of such signs shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   If within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (3)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.23)
§ 73.14 PRESENTING FALSE NAME OR INFORMATION TO OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly present, display, or orally communicate a
false name, social security number, or date of birth to a law enforcement
officer who is in the process of issuing to the person a traffic ticket or
complaint.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4513.361)
§ 73.15 PROHIBITION AGAINST RESISTING OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall resist, hinder, obstruct, or abuse any sheriff,
constable, or other official while that official is attempting to arrest
offenders under any provision of this Title VII. No person shall interfere with
any person charged under any provision of this Title VII with the enforcement
of the law relative to public highways.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.36)
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
§ 73.16 OPERATION RESTRICTED FOR MINI-TRUCKS AND LOW-SPEED, UNDER- SPEED, OR
UTILITY VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a low-speed vehicle upon any street or
highway having an established speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour.
      (2)   No person shall operate an under-speed or utility vehicle or a
mini-truck upon any street or highway except as follows:
         (a)   Upon a street or highway having an established speed limit not
greater than 35 miles per hour and only upon such streets or highways where the
municipality has granted permission for such operation in accordance with
division (E) of this section;
         (b)   A state park or political subdivision employee or volunteer
operating a utility vehicle exclusively within the boundaries of state parks or
political subdivision parks for the operation or maintenance of state or
political subdivision park facilities.
      (3)   No person shall operate a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter upon
any street or highway having an established speed limit greater than 45 miles
per hour.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   A person operating a low-speed, under-speed, or utility vehicle or
a mini-truck from proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway
having a speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   A person operating a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter from
proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway having a speed limit
greater than 45 miles per hour.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the municipality from adopting
more stringent local ordinances, resolutions, or regulations governing the
operation of a low-speed vehicle or a mini-truck, or a motor-driven cycle or
motor scooter.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.214)
   (E)   By ordinance or resolution, the municipality may authorize the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on a public street
or highway under its jurisdiction. The municipality shall do all of the
following:
      (1)   Limit the operation of those vehicles to streets and highways
having an established speed limit not greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   Require the vehicle owner who wishes to operate an under-speed or
utility vehicle or a mini-truck on the public streets or highways to submit the
vehicle to an inspection conducted by a local law enforcement agency that
complies with inspection requirements established by the Department of Public
Safety under R.C. § 4513.02;
      (3)   Permit the operation on public streets or highways of only those
vehicles that successfully pass the required vehicle inspection, are registered
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4503, and are titled in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 4505;
      (4)   Notify the Director of Public Safety, in a manner the Director
determines, of the authorization for the operation of under-speed or utility
vehicles or mini-trucks.
   (F)   The municipality may establish additional requirements for the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on its streets and
highways.
(R.C. § 4511.215)
   (G)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (F) of this section, a person
may operate a utility vehicle on any public roads or right-of-way, other than a
freeway, when traveling from one farm field to another for agricultural
purposes if the vehicle is displaying a triangular slow-moving vehicle emblem
as described in R.C. § 4513.112.
(R.C. § 4511.216)
   (H)   (1)   Except as provided in this division (H) and divisions (E) and
(F) of this section, no person shall operate a mini-truck within this
municipality.
      (2)   A person may operate a mini-truck on a farm for agricultural
purposes only when the owner of the farm qualifies for the current agricultural
use valuation tax credit. A mini-truck may be operated by or on behalf of such
a farm owner on public roads and rights-of-way only when traveling from one
farm field to another.
      (3)   A person may operate a mini-truck on property owned or leased by a
dealer who sells mini-trucks at retail.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (H) shall be penalized as provided
in division (D) of this section.
(R.C. § 4519.401)
STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT
§ 73.30 FAILURE TO STOP AFTER ACCIDENT.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision with
persons or property on a public road or highway, the operator of the motor
vehicle, having knowledge of the accident or collision, immediately shall stop
the operator’s motor vehicle at the scene of the accident or collision. The
operator shall remain at the scene of the accident or collision until the
operator has given the operator’s name and address and, if the operator is not
the owner, the name and address of the owner of that motor vehicle, together
with the registered number of that motor vehicle, to all of the following:
         (a)   Any person injured in the accident or collision;
         (b)   The operator, occupant, owner, or attendant of any motor vehicle
damaged in the accident or collision;
         (c)   The police officer at the scene of the accident or collision.
      (2)   In the event an injured person is unable to comprehend and record
the information required to be given under division (A)(1) of this section, the
other operator involved in the accident or collision shall notify the nearest
police authority concerning the location of the accident or collision, and the
operator’s name, address, and the registered number of the motor vehicle the
operator was operating. The operator shall remain at the scene of the accident
or collision until a police officer arrives, unless removed from the scene by
an emergency vehicle operated by a political subdivision or an ambulance.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required to be given in this section, in writing, to a
conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident. Except as otherwise provided in division (B)
(2) or (B)(3) of this section, failure to stop after an accident is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §§
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.02)
§ 73.31 STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT ON OTHER THAN PUBLIC ROADS OR HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision resulting
in injury or damage to persons or property on any public or private property
other than a public road or highway, the operator of the motor vehicle, having
knowledge of the accident or collision, shall stop at the scene of the accident
or collision. Upon request of any person who is injured or damaged, or any
other person, the operator shall give that person the operator’s name and
address, and, if the operator is not the owner, the name and address of the
owner of that motor vehicle, together with the registered number of that motor
vehicle, and, if available, exhibit the operator’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license.
      (2)   If the operator of the motor vehicle involved in the accident or
collision does not provide the information specified in division (A)(1) of this
section, the operator shall give that information, within 24 hours after the
accident or collision, to the police department of the city or village in which
the accident or collision occurred, or if it occurred outside the corporate
limits of a city or village, to the sheriff of the county in which the accident
or collision occurred.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required under division (A)(1) of this section, in
writing, to a conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor
vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident. Except as otherwise provided
in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section, failure to stop after a nonpublic
road accident is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.021)
§ 73.32 ACCIDENT INVOLVING DAMAGE TO REALTY.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
damage to real property, or personal property attached to real property,
legally upon or adjacent to a public road or highway immediately shall stop and
take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of the
property of that fact, of the driver’s name and address, and of the
registration number of vehicle the driver is driving and, upon request and if
available, shall exhibit the driver’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (2)   If the owner or person in charge of the property cannot be located
after reasonable search, the driver of the vehicle involved in the accident
resulting in damage to the property, within 24 hours after accident, shall
forward to the police department of the municipality the same information
required to be given to the owner or person in control of the property and give
the location of the accident and a description of the damage insofar as it is
known.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident involving the property of others, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.03)
§ 73.33 FAILURE TO REPORT ACCIDENT.
   (A)   No person shall fail to report a motor vehicle accident as required
under state or local law.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4509.74)
CHAPTER 74: EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
Section
Equipment
   
74.01   Unsafe vehicles, prohibition against operation
   
74.02   Bumpers on motor vehicles
   
74.03   Lighted lights required
   
74.04   Headlights
   
74.05   Tail lights and illumination of rear license plate
   
74.06   Red reflectors required
   
74.07   Safety lighting of commercial vehicles
   
74.08   Stoplight regulations
   
74.09   Obscured lights on vehicles
   
74.10   Red light or flag required
   
74.11   Lights on parked vehicles
   
74.12   Lights, emblems, and reflectors on slow-moving vehicles, farm
machinery, agricultural tractors, and animal-drawn vehicles
   
74.13   Spotlight and auxiliary driving lights
   
74.14   Cowl, fender, and back-up lights
   
74.15   Two lights displayed
   
74.16   Headlights required
   
74.17   Lights of less intensity
   
74.18   Number of lights permitted; red and flashing lights
   
74.19   Standards for lights on snow removal equipment and oversize vehicles
   
74.20   Flashing lights permitted for certain types of vehicles
   
74.21   Lights and sign on transportation for preschool children
   
74.22   Focus and aim of headlights
   
74.23   Brake equipment; specifications
   
74.24   Brake fluid
   
74.25   Minimum standards for brakes and components
   
74.26   Horns, sirens, and warning devices
   
74.27   Mufflers; excessive smoke or gas
   
74.28   Rearview mirrors
   
74.29   Windshields and wipers
   
74.30   Solid tire requirements
   
74.31   Requirements for safety glass in motor vehicles; use of tinted glass or
reflectorized material
   
74.32   Directional signals
   
74.33   Installation and sale of seat safety belts required; definition
   
74.34   Requirements for extra signal equipment
   
74.35   Display of warning devices on disabled vehicles
   
74.36   Requirements for vehicles transporting explosives
   
74.37   Studded tires; seasonal use permitted
   
74.38   Safety inspection decals for buses
   
74.39   Air bags
Loads
   
74.50   Permit required to exceed load limits
   
74.51   Limitation of load extension on left side of vehicle
   
74.52   All loads shall be properly secured
   
74.53   Towing requirements; exception to size and weight restrictions
   
74.54   Weighing of vehicle; removal of excess load
   
74.55   Operation of vehicle exceeding weight limits prohibited
   
74.56   Load limits
   
74.57   Maximum width, height, and length
   
74.58   Statement of gross vehicle weight
   
74.59   Wheel protectors required on heavy commercial vehicles
   
74.60   Liability for damages; prosecution; application of monies
   
74.61   Weight exceptions for certain vehicles
Statutory reference:
   Exemption of certain vehicles from emission, noise control and fuel
standards, see R.C. § 4513.41
   Exemption of collector’s or historical vehicles from equipment standards,
see R.C. § 4513.38
   Motorcycles, protective eye devices required for operators and passengers;
helmets required for persons under 18 years of age, see O.A.C. § 4501-17-01
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Snowmobiles and all-purpose vehicles, equipment, see O.A.C. § 4501-29-01
   Vehicle lighting, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-15
EQUIPMENT
§ 74.01 UNSAFE VEHICLES, PROHIBITION AGAINST OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move, or cause or knowingly permit to be
driven or moved, on any highway any vehicle or combination of vehicles which is
in such unsafe condition as to endanger any person.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.02(A), (H))
§ 74.02 BUMPERS ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING. Means the manufacturer’s gross vehicle
weight rating established for that vehicle.
      MANUFACTURER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      MULTIPURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE. Means a motor vehicle with motive power,
except a motorcycle, designed to carry ten persons or less, that is constructed
either on a truck chassis or with special features for occasional off-road
operation.
      PASSENGER CAR. Means any motor vehicle with motive power, designed for
carrying ten persons or less, except a multipurpose passenger vehicle or
motorcycle.
      TRUCK. Means every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers,
designed and used to carry property and having a gross vehicle weight rating of
10,000 pounds or less.
   (B)   Rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety, in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 119, shall govern the maximum bumper height or, in the absence of
bumpers and in cases where bumper height have been lowered or modified, the
maximum height to the bottom of the frame rail of any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck.
   (C)   No person shall operate upon a street or highway any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck registered in this state that does not
conform to the requirements of this section or any applicable rule adopted
pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021.
   (D)   No person shall modify any motor vehicle registered in this state in
such a manner as to cause the vehicle body or chassis to come in contact with
the ground, expose the fuel tank to damage from collision, or cause the wheels
to come in contact with the body under normal operation, and no person shall
disconnect any part of the original suspension system of the vehicle to defeat
the safe operation of that system.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this section or in the rules adopted pursuant to
R.C. § 4513.021 shall be construed to prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   The installation upon a passenger car, multipurpose passenger
vehicle or truck registered in this state of heavy duty equipment, including
shock absorbers and overload springs:
      (2)   The operation on a street or highway of a passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle, or truck registered in this state with normal
wear to the suspension system if the normal wear does not adversely affect the
control of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section and the rules adopted pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021 do not
apply to any specially designed or modified passenger car, multipurpose
passenger vehicle, or truck when operated off a street or highway in races and
similar events.
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.021)
Statutory reference:
   Maximum height on bumpers, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-43
§ 74.03 LIGHTED LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every vehicle, other than a motorized bicycle, operated upon a street
or highway within this state shall display lighted lights and illuminating
devices as required by R.C. §§ 4513.04 to 4513.37 during all of the following
times:
      (1)   The time from sunset to sunrise;
      (2)   At any other time when, due to insufficient natural light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons, vehicles, and substantial objects
on the highway are not discernible at a distance of 1,000 feet ahead;
      (3)   At any time when the windshield wipers of the vehicle are in use
because of precipitation on the windshield.
   (B)   Every motorized bicycle shall display at such times lighted lights
meeting the rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4511.521. No motor vehicle, during any time specified in this section, shall be
operated upon a street or highway within this state using only parking lights
as illumination.
   (C)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the distance
from which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible, or within
which such lamps or devices shall be visible, such distance shall be measured
upon a straight level unlighted highway under normal atmospheric conditions
unless a different condition is expressly stated.
   (D)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the mounted
height of lights or devices, it shall mean from the center of such light or
device to the level ground upon which the vehicle stands.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a vehicle being operated upon a
street or highway within this state to stop the vehicle solely because the
officer observes that a violation of division (A)(3) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of that division, or causing the arrest of or
commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of that division.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.03)
§ 74.04 HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, shall be equipped
with at least two headlights with at least one near each side of the front of
the motor vehicle.
      (2)   Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one and not more
than two headlights.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.04)
§ 74.05 TAIL LIGHTS AND ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLATE.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, pole trailer or
vehicle which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles shall be
equipped with at least one tail light mounted on the rear which, when lighted,
shall emit a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear,
provided that in the case of a train of vehicles only the tail light on the
rearmost vehicle need be visible from the distance specified.
      (2)   Either a tail light or a separate light shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate, when
such registration plate is required, and render it legible from a distance of
50 feet to the rear. Any tail light, together with any separate light for
illuminating the rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the headlights or auxiliary driving lights are lighted, except where
separate lighting systems are provided for trailers for the purpose of
illuminating such registration plate.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.05)
§ 74.06 RED REFLECTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Every new motor vehicle sold after September 6, 1941, and
operated on a highway, other than a commercial tractor to which a trailer or
semitrailer is attached, shall carry at the rear, either as a part of the tail
lamps or separately, two red reflectors meeting the requirements of this
section, except that vehicles of the type mentioned in R.C. § 4513.07 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be equipped with reflectors
as required by the regulations provided for in that section.
      (2)   Every such reflector shall be of such size and characteristics and
so maintained as to be visible at night from all distances within 300 feet to
50 feet from such vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.06)
§ 74.07 SAFETY LIGHTING OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   When the Director of Public Safety prescribes and promulgates
regulations relating to clearance lights, marker lights, reflectors and stop
lights on buses, trucks, commercial tractors, trailers, semitrailers and pole
trailers, when operated upon any highway, these vehicles shall be equipped as
required by such regulations, and such equipment shall be lighted at all times
mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
except that clearance lights and side marker lights need not be lighted on any
such vehicle when it is operated within the municipality where there is
sufficient light to reveal any person or substantial object on the highway at a
distance of 500 feet.
      (2)   Such equipment shall be in addition to all other lights
specifically required by R.C. §§ 4513.03 through 4513.16, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinances.
      (3)   Vehicles operated under the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities
Commission are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.07)
§ 74.08 STOPLIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, and pole trailer when
operated upon a highway shall be equipped with two or more stop lights, except
that passenger cars manufactured or assembled prior to January 1, 1967,
motorcycles, and motor-driven cycles shall be equipped with at least one stop
light. Stop lights shall be mounted on the rear of the vehicle, actuated upon
application of the service brake, and may be incorporated with other rear
lights. Such stop lights when actuated shall emit a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear; provided that in the case of a train of
vehicles only the stop lights on the rearmost vehicle need be visible from the
distance specified.
      (2)   Such stop lights when actuated shall give a steady warning light to
the rear of a vehicle or train of vehicles to indicate the intention of the
operator to diminish the speed of or stop a vehicle or train of vehicles.
      (3)   When stop lights are used as required by this section, they shall
be constructed or installed so as to provide adequate and reliable illumination
and shall conform to the appropriate rules and regulations established under
R.C. § 4513.19.
      (4)   Historical motor vehicles as defined in R.C. § 4503.181, not
originally manufactured with stop lights, are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.071)
§ 74.09 OBSCURED LIGHTS ON VEHICLES.
   Whenever motor and other vehicles are operated in combination during the
time that lights are required, any light, except tail lights, which by reason
of its location on a vehicle of the combination would be obscured by another
vehicle of the combination, need not be lighted, but this section does not
affect the requirement that lighted clearance lights be displayed on the front
of the foremost vehicle required to have clearance lights or that all lights
required on the rear of the rearmost vehicle of any combination shall be
lighted.
(R.C. § 4513.08)
§ 74.10 RED LIGHT OR FLAG REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or
more beyond the bed or body of this vehicle, there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of the load, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, a red light or lantern plainly
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the sides and rear. The red
light or lantern required by this section is in addition to the red rear light
required upon every vehicle. At any other time there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of such load a red flag or cloth not less than 16 inches
square.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.09)
§ 74.11 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Except in case of an emergency, whenever a vehicle is parked or
stopped upon a roadway open to traffic or a shoulder adjacent thereto, whether
attended or unattended, during the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, such vehicle shall be equipped
with one or more lights which shall exhibit a white or amber light on the
roadway side visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle,
and a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear. No lights need
be displayed upon any such vehicle when it is stopped or parked within the
municipality where there is sufficient light to reveal any person or
substantial object within a distance of 500 feet upon such highway. Any lighted
headlights upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or dimmed.
(R.C. § 4513.10)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.12 LIGHTS, EMBLEMS, AND REFLECTORS ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES, FARM
MACHINERY, AGRICULTURAL TRACTORS, AND ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      BOAT TRAILER. Means any vehicle designed and used exclusively to
transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina, or in and around a
marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway for a distance of no more
than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
      SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE and SMV. Mean a boat trailer, unit of farm machinery,
road construction machinery, or other machinery designed by the manufacturer to
operate at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less. The term does not include a
bicycle, motorized bicycle, electric bicycle, or animal-drawn vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.11)
   (B)   Generally.
      (1)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall operate
either of the following vehicles unless it is equipped with and displays the
lamps described in division (B)(2) of this section:
         (a)   A vehicle not specifically required to be equipped with lamps or
other lighting devices by R.C. §§ 4513.03 to 4513.10;
         (b)   A vehicle referred to in R.C. § 4513.02(G).
      (2)   Vehicles described in division (B)(1) of this section shall be
equipped with both of the following:
         (a)   At least one lamp displaying a white light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the vehicle;
         (b)   Two lamps displaying red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the vehicle, or as an alternative, one lamp
displaying a red light visible from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to
the rear and two red reflectors visible from all distances of 600 feet to 100
feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams of headlamps.
      (3)   (a)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall
operate a multi-wheel agricultural tractor model year 2001 or earlier on a
street or highway unless it is equipped with and displays reflectors and
illuminated amber lamps so that the extreme left and right projections of the
tractor are indicated by all of the following:
            1.   Flashing lamps displaying amber light, visible to the front
and the rear. The lamps need not flash simultaneously and need not flash in
conjunction with any directional signals of the tractor.
            2.   Amber reflectors, all visible to the front;
            3.   Red reflectors, all visible to the rear.
         (b)   Rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4513.111 governing the lamps and reflectors described in division (B)(3)(a) of
this section and their placement correlate with and, as far as possible,
conform with paragraphs 4.1.4.1, 4.1.7.1, and 4.1.7.2 respectively of the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.10 OCT 98,
Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways.
      (4)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall operate a
unit of farm machinery model year 2002 or later on a street or highway unless
it is equipped with and displays markings and illuminated lamps that meet or
exceed the lighting, illumination, and marking standards and specifications
that are applicable to that type of farm machinery for the unit's model year
specified in the American society of agricultural engineers standard ANSI/ASAE
S279.10 OCT 98, lighting and marking of agricultural equipment on highways.
      (5)   Any unit of farm machinery designed by its manufacturer to operate
at a speed of 25 miles per hour or greater or any SMV may be equipped with and
display a red flashing light that is visible from a distance of not less than
1,000 feet to the rear at all times specified in R.C. § 4513.03. When a double-
faced light is used, it shall display amber light to the front and red light to
the rear.
      (6)   Lights and reflectors required under divisions (B)(3) and (B)(4) of
this section and authorized under division (B)(5) of this section are in
addition to other lights required or permitted by this division (B) or R.C. §
4513.17.
      (7)   The Ohio Director of Public Safety shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 that establish standards and specifications for lamps and
reflectors required or authorized by this section. Lamps and reflectors
required or authorized by this section shall meet those standards and
specifications.
      (8)   This division (B) does not apply to a bicycle, motorized bicycle,
electric bicycle, or animal-drawn vehicle.
      (9)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.111)
   (C)   Slow-moving vehicles.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person shall
operate an SMV on a street or highway as follows:
         (a)   At a speed exceeding 25 miles per hour;
         (b)   Without displaying the triangular SMV emblem mounted in
accordance with division (C)(2) of this section.
      (2)   The SMV emblem shall be mounted so as to be visible from a distance
of not less than 500 feet to the rear. In accordance with R.C. Chapter 119, the
Ohio Director of Public Safety shall adopt standards and specifications for the
design and position of mounting the SMV emblem. The standards and
specifications for the SMV emblem correlate with and, so far as possible,
conform with those approved by the American Society of Agricultural Engineers.
      (3)   A person may operate an SMV on a street or highway without
displaying the triangular SMV emblem when any of the following apply:
         (a)   The SMV is being used in actual construction and maintenance
work in an area guarded by a flagperson, or where flares are used.
         (b)   The SMV is operating or traveling within the limits of a
construction area designated by the Ohio Director of Transportation, a city
engineer, or the county engineer of the several counties, when such
construction area is marked in accordance with requirements of the Ohio
Director of Transportation and the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices,
as set forth in R.C. § 4511.09.
      (4)   No person shall display an SMV emblem on any of the following:
         (a)   Any vehicle not required to use the SMV emblem by this division
(C) or R.C. § 4513.113 or 4513.114;
         (b)   An SMV being transported upon any other vehicle;
         (c)   Any stationary object on the highway.
      (5)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate an SMV, except a unit
designed to be completely mounted on a primary power unit that is manufactured
or assembled on or after April 1, 1966, unless it is equipped with an SMV
emblem mounting device.
      (6)   Whoever violates this division (C) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.112)
   (D)   Farm machinery and agricultural tractors.
      (1)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate on a street or
highway any unit of farm machinery that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the unit displays both
of the following:
         (a)   The SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. § 4513.112(B);
         (b)   A speed identification symbol that does both of the following:
            1.   Meets the specifications contained in the American Society of
Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005, Agricultural Equipment:
Speed Identification Symbol (SIS);
            2.   Indicates the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the
unit of farm machinery is designed by its manufacturer to operate.
      (2)   No person operating a tractor on a street or highway that is
designed by its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per
hour and that is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing a unit of farm machinery
while operating at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour shall fail to display
both of the following on the unit of farm machinery:
         (a)   The SMV emblem;
         (b)   The speed identification symbol that matches the speed
identification symbol required to be displayed on the agricultural tractor.
      (3)   No person shall operate an agricultural tractor that is designed by
its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless
the person possesses documentation published or provided by the manufacturer
indicating the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the manufacturer
designed the agricultural tractor to operate.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.113)
   (E)   Animal-drawn vehicles.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(4) of this section, no
person shall operate an animal-drawn vehicle on a street or highway unless it
is equipped with and displays, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, both
of the following:
         (a)   At least one lamp displaying a white light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the animal-drawn vehicle;
         (b)   Two lamps displaying red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the animal-drawn vehicle, or as an
alternative, one lamp displaying a red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear and two red reflectors visible from all
distances of 600 feet to one hundred feet to the rear when illuminated by the
lawful lower beams of headlamps.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(4) of this section, no
person shall operate an animal-drawn vehicle on a street or highway unless it
is equipped with and displays, at all times, all of the following:
         (a)   One yellow flashing lamp displaying yellow light that is visible
from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet and that is mounted in either of
the following positions:
            1.   On the top most portion of the rear of the animal-drawn
vehicle;
            2.   On the top of the animal-drawn vehicle.
         (b)   At least one of the following:
            1.   An SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. § 4513.112(B);
            2.   Micro-prism reflective tape that is visible from a distance of
not less than 500 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams
of headlamps;
            3.   Both an SMV emblem and micro-prism reflective tape, as
specified in this division.
         (c)   Lamps and micro-prism reflective tape required by this section
shall meet standards and specifications adopted by the Ohio Director of Public
Safety under R.C. § 4513.114.
      (3)   The Ohio Director of Public Safety, in accordance with R.C. Chapter
119, shall adopt rules establishing standards and specifications for the
position and mounting of the lamps and micro-prism reflective tape required by
R.C. § 4513.114. The rules permit the micro-prism reflective tape to be red,
amber, white, or silver in color.
      (4)   (a)   Divisions (E)(1) and (E)(2) of this section do not apply to
the operator of animal-drawn agricultural equipment who is not transporting any
livestock or a person other than the operator.
         (b)   No operator described in division (E)(4)(a) of this section
shall operate animal-drawn agricultural equipment unless it is equipped with
and displays, at all times, the SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. §
4513.112(B).
         (c)   As used in division (E)(4) of this section, "animal-drawn
agricultural equipment" means equipment drawn by the muscular power of an
animal that is used solely for agricultural purposes. "Animal-drawn
agricultural equipment" includes any of the following:
            1.   A plow;
            2.   A manure spreader;
            3.   A thresher.
      (5)   Whoever violates this division (E) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.114)
   (F)   Strict liability offenses. The offenses established under this section
are strict liability offenses, and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The
designation of these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be
construed to imply that any other offense, for which there is no specified
degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4513.115)
§ 74.13 SPOTLIGHT AND AUXILIARY DRIVING LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one
spotlight and every lighted spotlight shall be so aimed and used upon
approaching another vehicle that no part of the high-intensity portion of the
beam will be directed to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side
of the vehicle, nor more than 100 feet ahead of the vehicle.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than three
auxiliary driving lights mounted on the front of the vehicle. Any such lights
which do not conform to the specifications for auxiliary driving lights and the
regulations for their use prescribed by the Director of Public Safety shall not
be used.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.12)
§ 74.14 COWL, FENDER, AND BACK-UP LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with side cowl or fender
lights which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with lights on each side thereof
which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (3)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with back-up lights, either
separately or in combination with another light. No back-up lights shall be
continuously lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.13)
§ 74.15 TWO LIGHTS DISPLAYED.
   (A)   At all times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, at least two lighted lights shall be displayed, one near
each side of the front of every motor vehicle, except when such vehicle is
parked subject to the regulations governing lights on parked vehicles.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.14)
§ 74.16 HEADLIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto during the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the driver shall use a
distribution of light, or composite beam, directed high enough and of
sufficient intensity to reveal persons, vehicles and substantial objects at a
safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle,
such driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam, so aimed that
the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming driver.
      (2)   Every new motor vehicle registered in this state which has
multiple-beam road lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator,
which shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the
headlights is in use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. This indicator shall
be so designed and located that, when lighted, it will be readily visible
without glare to the driver of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.15)
§ 74.17 LIGHTS OF LESS INTENSITY.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in
R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance when it is
equipped with two lighted lights upon the front thereof capable of revealing
persons and substantial objects 75 feet ahead, in lieu of lights required in
R.C. § 4513.14 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, provided that
such vehicle shall not be operated at a speed in excess of 20 miles per hour.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.16)
§ 74.18 NUMBER OF LIGHTS PERMITTED; RED AND FLASHING LIGHTS.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with headlights is also equipped
with any auxiliary lights or spotlight or any other light on the front thereof
projecting a beam of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower, not more than a
total of five of any such lights on the front of a vehicle shall be lighted at
any one time when the vehicle is upon a highway.
   (B)   Any lighted light or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle, other
than headlights, spotlights, signal lights, or auxiliary driving lights, that
projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower shall be
so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level of the roadway on
which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet from the vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   Flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles, except as a
means for indicating a right or a left turn, or in the presence of a vehicular
traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching, or overtaking or passing.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (C)(1) of this section does not apply
to any of the following:
         (a)   Emergency vehicles, road service vehicles servicing or towing a
disabled vehicle, stationary waste collection vehicles actively collecting
garbage, refuse, trash, or recyclable materials on the roadside, rural mail
delivery vehicles, vehicles as provided in R.C. § 4513.182, highway maintenance
vehicles, and similar equipment operated by state or local authorities,
provided such vehicles are equipped with and display, when used on a street or
highway for the special purpose necessitating such lights, a flashing,
oscillating, or rotating amber light;
         (b)   Vehicles or machinery permitted by R.C. § 4513.111 to have a
flashing red light;
         (c)   Farm machinery and vehicles escorting farm machinery, provided
such machinery and vehicles are equipped with and display, when used on a
street or highway, a flashing, oscillating, or rotating amber light. Farm
machinery also may display the lights described in R.C. § 4513.111.
         (d)   A funeral hearse or funeral escort vehicle, provided that the
funeral hearse or funeral escort vehicle is equipped with and displays, when
used on a street or highway for the special purpose necessitating such lights,
a flashing, oscillating, or rotating purple or amber light.
         (e)   A vehicle being used for emergency preparedness, response, and
recovery activities, as those terms are defined in R.C. § 5502.21, that is
equipped with and displays, when used on a street or highway for the special
purpose necessitating such lights, a flashing, oscillating, or rotating amber
or red and white light, provided that the vehicle is being operated by a person
from one of the following and the vehicle is clearly marked with the applicable
agency's or authority's insignia:
            1.   The Ohio Emergency Management Agency;
            2.   A countywide emergency management agency established under
R.C. § 5502.26;
            3.   A regional authority for emergency management established
under R.C. § 5502.27;
            4.   A program for emergency management established under R.C. §
5502.271.
      (3)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to animal-drawn
vehicles subject to R.C. § 4513.114.
   (D)   (1)   Except a person operating a public safety vehicle, as defined in
R.C. § 4511.01(E), an emergency management agency vehicle, as described in
division (C)(2)(e) of this section, or a school bus, no person shall operate,
move, or park upon, or permit to stand within the right-of-way of any public
street or highway any vehicle or equipment that is equipped with and displaying
a flashing red or a flashing combination red and white light, or an oscillating
or rotating red light, or a combination red and white oscillating or rotating
light.
      (2)   Except a public law enforcement officer, or other person sworn to
enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state, operating a public safety
vehicle when on duty, no person shall operate, move, or park upon, or permit to
stand within the right-of-way of any street or highway any vehicle or equipment
that is equipped with, or upon which is mounted, and displaying a flashing blue
or a flashing combination blue and white light, or an oscillating or rotating
blue light, or a combination blue and white oscillating or rotating light.
   (E)   This section does not prohibit the use of warning lights required by
law or the simultaneous flashing of turn signals on disabled vehicles or on
vehicles being operated in unfavorable atmospheric conditions in order to
enhance their visibility. This section also does not prohibit the simultaneous
flashing of turn signals or warning lights whether on farm machinery or
vehicles escorting farm machinery when used on a street or highway.
(R.C. § 4513.17)
   (F)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a motor vehicle
operated by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator may be equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and siren, whistle
or bell capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a
distance of not less than 500 feet. Such a vehicle may display the flashing,
oscillating or rotating red or blue light and may give the audible signal of
the siren, whistle or bell only when responding to a fatality or a fatal motor
vehicle accident on a street or highway and only at those locations where the
stoppage of traffic impedes the ability of the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator to arrive at the site of the fatality.
      (2)   This division (F) does not relieve the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.171)
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4513.17(F), 4513.171(B))
§ 74.19 STANDARDS FOR LIGHTS ON SNOW REMOVAL EQUIPMENT AND OVERSIZE VEHICLES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to operate snow removal equipment on a highway unless
the lights thereon comply with and are lighted when and as required by the
standards and specifications adopted by the Director of Transportation pursuant
to R.C. § 4513.18.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.18)
§ 74.20 FLASHING LIGHTS PERMITTED FOR CERTAIN TYPES OF VEHICLES.
   Rural mail delivery vehicles, state highway survey vehicles, and funeral
escort vehicles are permitted to use flashing lights.
(R.C. § 4513.181)
§ 74.21 LIGHTS AND SIGN ON TRANSPORTATION FOR PRESCHOOL CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle owned, leased, or hired by a
nursery school, kindergarten, or child care center, while transporting
preschool children to or from such an institution unless the motor vehicle is
equipped with and displaying two amber flashing lights mounted on a bar
attached to the top of the vehicle, and a sign bearing the designation "caution
– children", which shall be attached to the bar carrying the amber flashing
lights in such a manner as to be legible to persons both in front of and behind
the vehicle. The lights and sign shall meet standards and specifications
adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle displaying the lights and sign
required by this section for any purpose other than the transportation of
preschool children as provided in this section.
(R.C. § 4513.182)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.22 FOCUS AND AIM OF HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   No person shall use any lights mentioned in R.C. §§ 4513.03 through
4513.18, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, upon any motor
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer unless these lights are equipped, mounted and
adjusted as to focus and aim in accordance with regulations which are
prescribed by the Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   The headlights on any motor vehicle shall comply with the headlamp
color requirements contained in Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number
108, 49 C.F.R. § 571.108. No person shall operate a motor vehicle in violation
of this division.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.19)
§ 74.23 BRAKE EQUIPMENT; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The following requirements govern as to brake equipment on vehicles:
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, when operated upon a
highway shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and
to stop and hold the motor vehicle, including two separate means of applying
the brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply the brakes to at
least two wheels. If these two separate means of applying the brakes are
connected in any way, then on such motor vehicles, manufactured or assembled
after January 1, 1942, they shall be so constructed that failure of any one
part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle without
brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, when operated upon a highway shall be equipped
with at least one adequate brake, which may be operated by hand or by foot.
      (3)   Every motorized bicycle shall be equipped with brakes meeting the
rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4511.521.
      (4)   When operated upon the highways, the following vehicles shall be
equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to
hold the vehicle, designed to be applied by the driver of the towing motor
vehicle from its cab, and also designed and connected so that, in case of a
breakaway of the towed vehicle, the brakes shall be automatically applied:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every trailer or
semitrailer, except a pole trailer, with an empty weight of 2,000 pounds or
more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1942;
         (b)   Every manufactured home or travel trailer with an empty weight
of 2,000 pounds or more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 2001.
      (5)   Every watercraft trailer with a gross weight or manufacturer’s
gross vehicle weight rating of 3,000 pounds or more that is manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 2008, shall have separate brakes equipped with
hydraulic surge or electrically operated brakes on two wheels.
      (6)   In any combination of motor-drawn trailers or semitrailers equipped
with brakes, means shall be provided for applying the rearmost brakes in
approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle, and developing
the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest rate; or
means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the rearmost
brakes; or both of the above means, capable of being used alternatively, may be
employed.
      (7)   Every vehicle and combination of vehicles, except motorcycles and
motorized bicycles, and except trailers and semitrailers of a gross weight of
less than 2,000 pounds, and pole trailers, shall be equipped with parking
brakes adequate to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under
all conditions of loading, on a surface free from snow, ice, or loose material.
The parking brakes shall be capable of being applied in conformance with the
foregoing requirements by the driver’s muscular effort or by spring action or
by equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or
other source of power provided that failure of the service brake actuation
system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes
from being applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements. The parking
brakes shall be so designed that when once applied they shall remain applied
with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of any source of energy or
leakage of any kind.
      (8)   The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies, brake shoe
anchors, and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally associated with
the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service brakes and the
parking brakes. If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (9)   Every motor vehicle or combination of motor-drawn vehicles shall,
at all times and under all conditions of loading, be capable of being stopped
on a dry, smooth, level road free from loose material, upon application of the
service or foot brake, within the following specified distances, or shall be
capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate corresponding to these
distances:
         (a)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles having brakes on all wheels
shall come to a stop in 30 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per hour.
         (b)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles not having brakes on all
wheels shall come to a stop in 40 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per
hour.
      (10)   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be
so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels
on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.20)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.24 BRAKE FLUID.
   (A)   No hydraulic brake fluid for use in motor vehicles shall be sold in
this municipality if the brake fluid is below the minimum standard of
specifications for heavy duty type brake fluid established by the society of
automotive engineers and the standard of specifications established by 49
C.F.R. § 571.116, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers, packers, or distributors of brake fluid selling
such fluid in this municipality shall state on the containers that the brake
fluid meets or exceeds the applicable minimum SAE standard of specifications,
and the standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. § 571.116, as
amended.
(R.C. § 4513.201)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.25 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BRAKES AND COMPONENTS.
   (A)   No brake lining, brake lining material, or brake lining assemblies for
use as repair and replacement parts in motor vehicles shall be sold in this
municipality if these items do not meet or exceed the minimum standard of
specifications established by the Society of Automotive Engineers and the
standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. § 571.105, as amended, and
49 C.F.R. § 571.135, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers or distributors of brake lining, brake lining
material, or brake lining assemblies selling these items for use as repair and
replacement parts in motor vehicles shall state that the items meet or exceed
the applicable minimum standard of specifications.
   (C)   As used in this section, MINIMUM STANDARD OF SPECIFICATIONS means a
minimum standard for brake system or brake component performance that meets the
need for motor vehicle safety and complies with the applicable SAE standards
and recommended practices, and the federal motor vehicle safety standards that
cover the same aspect of performance for any brake lining, brake lining
material, or brake lining assemblies.
(R.C. § 4513.202)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.26 HORNS, SIRENS, AND WARNING DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a highway shall be
equipped with a horn which is in good working order and capable of emitting
sound audible, under normal conditions, from a distance of not less than 200
feet.
      (2)   No motor vehicle shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use
upon a vehicle, any siren, whistle, or bell. Any vehicle may be equipped with a
theft alarm signal device which shall be so arranged that it cannot be used as
an ordinary warning signal. Every emergency vehicle shall be equipped with a
siren, whistle or bell, capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than 500 feet and of a type approved by
the Director of Public Safety. Such equipment shall not be used except when
such vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or is in the
immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, in which case
the driver of the emergency vehicle shall sound such equipment when it is
necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.21)
§ 74.27 MUFFLERS; EXCESSIVE SMOKE OR GAS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle with an internal combustion
engine shall at all times be equipped with a muffler which is in good working
order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise, and no
person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a highway. Every motorcycle muffler shall be equipped with baffle
plates.
      (2)   No person shall own, operate or have in the person’s possession any
motor vehicle or motorcycle equipped with a device for producing excessive
smoke or gas, or so equipped as to permit oil or any other chemical to flow
into or upon the exhaust pipe or muffler of such vehicle, or equipped in any
way to produce or emit smoke or dangerous or annoying gases from any portion of
such vehicle, other than the ordinary gases emitted by the exhaust of an
internal combustion engine under normal operation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.22)
§ 74.28 REARVIEW MIRRORS.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle shall be equipped with a mirror so
located as to reflect to the operator a view of the highway to the rear of such
vehicle or motorcycle. Operators of vehicles and motorcycles shall have a clear
and unobstructed view to the front and to both sides of their vehicles and
motorcycles and shall have a clear view to the rear of their vehicles and
motorcycles by mirror.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.23)
§ 74.29 WINDSHIELDS AND WIPERS.
   (A)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle on a street or highway in this
municipality, other than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle, that is not
equipped with a windshield.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle, other than a bus, with
any sign, poster, or other nontransparent material upon the front windshield,
sidewings, side, or rear windows of such vehicle other than a certificate or
other paper required to be displayed by law, except that there may be in the
lower left-hand or right-hand corner of the windshield a sign, poster, or decal
not to exceed four inches in height by six inches in width. No sign, poster, or
decal shall be displayed in the front windshield in such a manner as to conceal
the vehicle identification number for the motor vehicle when, in accordance
with federal law, that number is located inside the vehicle passenger
compartment and so placed as to be readable through the vehicle glazing without
moving any part of the vehicle.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a passenger car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if either of
the following apply to the device:
         (a)   It is a "vehicle safety technology" as defined in 49 C.F.R. §
393.5 and complies with 49 C.F.R. § 393.60(e)(1)(ii).
         (b)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator's sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals, and it does not conceal the vehicle
identification number.
      (3)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a commercial car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if either of
the following apply to the device:
         (a)   It is a "vehicle safety technology" as defined in 49 C.F.R. §
393.5 and complies with 49 C.F.R. § 393.60(e)(1)(ii).
         (b)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator's sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals, and it is mounted not more than 8.5 inches
below the upper edge of the windshield.
   (C)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield. The device
shall be maintained in good working order and so constructed as to be
controlled or operated by the operator of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.24)
§ 74.30 SOLID TIRE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every solid tire, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, on a vehicle shall
have rubber or other resilient material on its entire traction surface at least
one inch thick above the edge of the flange of the entire periphery.
(R.C. § 4513.25)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.31 REQUIREMENTS FOR SAFETY GLASS IN MOTOR VEHICLES; USE OF TINTED GLASS OR
REFLECTORIZED MATERIAL.
   (A)   Safety glass.
      (1)   No person shall sell any new motor vehicle nor shall any new motor
vehicle be registered, and no person shall operate any motor vehicle, which is
registered in this state and which has been manufactured or assembled on or
after January 1, 1936, unless the motor vehicle is equipped with safety glass,
wherever glass is used in the windshields, doors, partitions, rear windows, and
windows on each side immediately adjacent to the rear window.
      (2)   As used in this section, SAFETY GLASS means any product composed of
glass so manufactured, fabricated, or treated as substantially to prevent
shattering and flying of the glass when it is struck or broken, or such other
or similar product as may be approved by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
      (3)   Glass other than safety glass shall not be offered for sale, or
sold for use in, or installed in any door, window, partition, or windshield
that is required by this section to be equipped with safety glass.
(R.C. § 4513.26)
   (B)   Tinted or reflectorized material.
      (1)   No person shall operate, on any highway or other public or private
property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking, lease, or rent any
motor vehicle that is registered in this state unless the motor vehicle
conforms to the requirements concerning tinted glass and reflectorized material
of R.C. § 4513.241 and of any applicable rule adopted under that section.
      (2)   No person shall install in or on any motor vehicle, any glass or
other material that fails to conform to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or
of any rule adopted under that section.
      (3)   (a)   No used motor vehicle dealer or new motor vehicle dealer, as
defined in R.C. § 4517.01, shall sell any motor vehicle that fails to conform
to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that
section.
         (b)   No manufacturer, remanufacturer, or distributor, as defined in
R.C. § 4517.01, shall provide to a motor vehicle dealer licensed under R.C.
Chapter 4517 or to any other person, a motor vehicle that fails to conform to
the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that section.
      (4)   No reflectorized materials shall be permitted upon or in any front
windshield, side windows, sidewings, or rear window.
      (5)   This division (B) does not apply to the manufacturer’s tinting or
glazing of motor vehicle windows or windshields that is otherwise in compliance
with or permitted by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard #205.
      (6)   With regard to any side window behind a driver’s seat or any rear
window other than any window on an emergency door, this division (B) does not
apply to any school bus used to transport a child with disabilities pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 3323, whom it is impossible or impractical to transport by regular
school bus in the course of regular route transportation provided by a school
district. As used in this division, CHILD WITH DISABILITIES has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 3323.01.
      (7)   This division (B) does not apply to any school bus that is to be
sold and operated outside the municipality.
      (8)   (a)   This division (B) does not apply to a motor vehicle used by a
law enforcement agency under either of the following circumstances:
            1.   The vehicle does not have distinctive markings of a law
enforcement vehicle but is operated by or on behalf of the law enforcement
agency in an authorized investigation or other activity requiring that the
presence and identity of the vehicle occupants be undisclosed.
            2.   The vehicle primarily is used by the law enforcement canine
unit for transporting a police dog.
         (b)   As used in this division, LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY means a police
department, the office of a sheriff, the State Highway Patrol, a county
prosecuting attorney, or a federal, state, or local governmental body that
enforces criminal laws and that has employees who have a statutory power of
arrest.
(R.C. § 4513.241(C) - (J))
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1),(B)(3)(b) or (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3)(a) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor if the dealer or the dealer’s agent knew of the nonconformity
at the time of sale.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, except that an organization may not be
convicted unless the act of installation was authorized by the board of
directors, trustees, partners, or by a high managerial officer acting on behalf
of the organization, and installation was performed by an employee of the
organization acting within the scope of the person’s employment.
         (b)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section,
whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is liable in a civil action to
the owner of a motor vehicle on which was installed the nonconforming glass or
material for any damages incurred by that person as a result of the
installation of the nonconforming glass or material, costs of maintaining the
civil action, and attorney fees.
         (c)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section, if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of division (B)(2) of this section and the offender is a motor vehicle repair
operator registered under R.C. Chapter 4775 or a motor vehicle dealer licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4517, whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is
subject to a registration or license suspension, as applicable, for a period of
not more than 180 days.
(R.C. § 4513.241(K))
Statutory reference:
   Regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-41
   Recording and reporting violations, certain court requirements, see R.C. §
4513.241(L)
§ 74.32 DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 1954, unless the vehicle is equipped with
electrical or mechanical directional signals.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motorcycle or motor-driven cycle
manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1968, unless the vehicle is
equipped with electrical or mechanical directional signals.
   (B)   As used in this section, DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS means an electrical or
mechanical signal device capable of clearly indicating an intention to turn
either to the right or to the left and which shall be visible from both the
front and rear.
   (C)   All mechanical signal devices shall be self-illuminating devices when
in use at the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.261)
§ 74.33 INSTALLATION AND SALE OF SEAT SAFETY BELTS REQUIRED; DEFINITION.
   (A)   As used in this section and in R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the component parts of a seat safety belt
include a belt, anchor attachment assembly, and a buckle or closing device.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate any passenger car,
as defined in R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this
state and that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1962, unless
the passenger car is equipped with sufficient anchorage units at the attachment
points for attaching at least two sets of seat safety belts to its front seat.
      (2)   Such anchorage units at the attachment points shall be of such
construction, design, and strength to support a loop load pull of not less than
4,000 pounds for each belt.
   (C)   No person shall sell, lease, or rent any passenger car, as defined in
R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this state and
that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1966, unless the
passenger car has installed in its front seat at least two seat safety belt
assemblies.
   (D)   After January 1, 1966, neither any seat safety belt for use in a motor
vehicle nor any component part of any such seat safety belt shall be sold in
this municipality unless the seat safety belt or the component part satisfies
the minimum standard of specifications established by the society of automotive
engineers for automotive seat belts and unless the seat safety belt or
component part is labeled so as to indicate that it meets those minimum
standard specifications.
   (E)   Each sale, lease, or rental in violation of this section constitutes a
separate offense.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.262)
Statutory reference:
   Child restraint systems, regulations, see R.C. § 4511.81
§ 74.34 REQUIREMENTS FOR EXTRA SIGNAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor truck, bus, or commercial tractor
upon any highway at any time from sunset to sunrise unless there is carried in
such vehicle, except as provided in division (B) of this section, the following
equipment which shall be of the types approved by the Director of
Transportation.
      (1)   At least three flares or three red reflectors or three red electric
lanterns, each of which is capable of being seen and distinguished at a
distance of 500 feet under normal atmospheric conditions at nighttime;
      (2)   At least three red-burning fusees, unless red reflectors or red
electric lanterns are carried;
      (3)   At least two red cloth flags, not less than two inches square, with
standards to support them;
      (4)   The type of red reflectors shall comply with such standards and
specifications in effect on September 16, 1963, or later established by the
Interstate Commerce Commission and must be certified as meeting such standards
by Underwriters Laboratories.
   (B)   No person shall operate at the time and under the conditions stated in
this section any motor vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, unless there is carried in such
vehicle three red electric lanterns or three red reflectors meeting the
requirements stated in division (A) of this section. There shall not be carried
in any such vehicle any flare, fusee, or signal produced by a flame.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any person who operates any motor
vehicle in a work area designated by protection equipment devices that are
displayed and used in accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation under R.C. § 4511.09.
(R.C. § 4513.27)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.35 DISPLAY OF WARNING DEVICES ON DISABLED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any motor truck, bus, commercial tractor, trailer,
semitrailer, or pole trailer is disabled upon any freeway, expressway, thruway
and connecting, entering, or exiting ramps within the municipality, at any time
when lighted lamps are required on vehicles, the operator of such vehicle shall
display the following warning devices upon the highway during the time the
vehicle is so disabled on the highway except as provided in division (B) of
this section:
      (1)   A lighted fusee shall be immediately placed on the roadway at the
traffic side of such vehicle, unless red electric lanterns or red reflectors
are displayed.
      (2)   Within the burning period of the fusee and as promptly as possible,
three lighted flares or pot torches, or three red reflectors or three red
electric lanterns shall be placed on the roadway as follows:
         (a)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet in
advance of the vehicle;
         (b)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet to the
rear of the vehicle, except as provided in this section, each in the center of
the lane of traffic occupied by the disabled vehicle;
         (c)   One at the traffic side of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, is disabled upon a highway at
any time or place mentioned in division (A) of this section, the driver of such
vehicle shall display upon the roadway the following warning devices:
      (1)   One red electric lantern or one red reflector shall be immediately
placed on the roadway at the traffic side of the vehicle;
      (2)   Two other red electric lanterns or two other red reflectors shall
be placed to the front and rear of the vehicle in the same manner prescribed
for flares in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   When a vehicle of a type specified in division (B) of this section is
disabled, the use of flares, fusees, or any signal produced by flame as warning
signals is prohibited.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle of a type referred to in this section is disabled
upon any freeway, expressway, thruway, and connecting, entering, or exiting
ramps within the municipality, at any time when the display of fusees, flares,
red reflectors, or electric lanterns is not required, the operator of such
vehicle shall display two red flags upon the roadway in the lane of traffic
occupied by the disabled vehicle, one at a distance of 40 paces or
approximately 100 feet in advance of the vehicle, and one at a distance of 40
paces or approximately 100 feet to the rear of the vehicle, except as provided
in this section.
   (E)   The flares, fusees, lanterns, red reflectors, and flags to be
displayed as required in this section shall conform with the applicable
requirements of R.C. § 4513.27 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (F)   In the event the vehicle is disabled near a curve, crest of a hill, or
other obstruction of view, the flare, flag, reflector, or lantern in that
direction shall be placed as to afford ample warning to other users of the
highway, but in no case shall it be placed less than 40 paces or approximately
100 feet nor more than 120 paces or approximately 300 feet from the disabled
vehicle.
   (G)   This section does not apply to the operator of any vehicle in a work
area designated by protection equipment devices that are displayed and used in
accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation under
R.C. § 4511.09.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.28)
§ 74.36 REQUIREMENTS FOR VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Any person operating any vehicle transporting explosives upon a
highway shall at all times comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   The vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and on the
rear with the word “EXPLOSIVES” in letters not less than eight inches high, or
there shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than
24 inches square marked with the word “DANGER” in white letters six inches
high, or shall be marked or placarded in accordance with Section 177.823 of the
United States Department of Transportation regulations.
      (2)   The vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use, and placed at convenient
points on such vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.29)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.37 STUDDED TIRES; SEASONAL USE PERMITTED.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, STUDDED TIRE means any tire designed
for use on a vehicle and equipped with metal studs or studs of wear-resisting
material that project beyond the tread of the traction surface of the tire.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, no person
shall operate any motor vehicle other than a public safety vehicle or school
bus that is equipped with studded tires on any street or highway in this
municipality, except during the period extending from the first day of November
of each year through the fifteenth day of April of the succeeding year.
      (2)   A person may operate a motor vehicle that is equipped with
retractable studded tires with the studs retracted at any time of the year, but
shall operate the motor vehicle with the studs extended only as provided in
division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the use of tire chains when there is
snow or ice on the streets or highways where such chains are being used, or the
immediate vicinity thereof.
(R.C. § 5589.081)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
§ 74.38 SAFETY INSPECTION DECALS FOR BUSES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      BUS.
         (a)   Means any vehicle used for the transportation of passengers that
meets at least one of the following:
            1.   Was originally designed by the manufacturer to transport more
than 15 passengers, including the driver;
            2.   Either the gross vehicle weight rating or the gross vehicle
weight exceeds 10,000 pounds.
         (b)   The term does not include a church bus as defined in R.C. §
4503.07 or a school bus unless the church bus or school bus is used in the
transportation of passengers by a motor carrier.
         (c)   The term also does not include any of the following:
            1.   Any vehicle operated exclusively on a rail or rails;
            2.   A trolley bus operated by electric power derived from a fixed
overhead wire furnishing local passenger transportation similar to street-
railway service;
            3.   Vehicles owned or leased by government agencies or political
subdivisions.
      MOTOR CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01
(R.C. § 4513.50)
   (B)   Safety inspection decals.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, on and after
July 1, 2001, no person shall operate a bus, nor shall any person being the
owner of a bus or having supervisory responsibility for a bus, permit the
operation of any bus unless the bus displays a valid, current safety inspection
decal issued by the State Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4513.52.
      (2)   For the purpose of complying with the requirements of this section
and R.C. § 4513.52, the owner or other operator of a bus may drive the bus
directly to an inspection site conducted by the State Highway Patrol and
directly back to the person’s place of business without a valid registration
and without displaying a safety inspection decal, provided that no passengers
may occupy the bus during such operation.
(R.C. § 4513.51(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4513.51(D))
§ 74.39 AIR BAGS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AIR BAG. Has the same meaning as in 49 C.F.R. § 579.4, as amended.
      COUNTERFEIT AIR BAG. An air bag displaying a mark identical or similar to
the genuine mark of a motor vehicle manufacturer, without the authorization of
the motor vehicle manufacturer.
      NONFUNCTIONAL AIR BAG. Any of the following:
         (a)   A replacement air bag that has been previously deployed or
damaged;
         (b)   A replacement air bag that has an electrical fault that is
detected by the air bag diagnostic system of a vehicle after the air bag is
installed;
         (c)   A counterfeit air bag, air bag cover, or some other object that
is installed in a vehicle to deceive an owner or operator of the vehicle into
believing that a functional air bag has been installed.
   (B)   No person shall install or reinstall in any motor vehicle a
counterfeit or nonfunctional air bag or any object intended to fulfill the
function of an air bag other than an air bag that was designed in conformance
with or that is regulated by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208
for the make, model, and model year of the vehicle, knowing that the object is
not in accordance with that standard.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly manufacture, import, sell, or offer for sale
any of the following:
      (1)   A counterfeit air bag;
      (2)   A nonfunctional air bag;
      (3)   Any other object that is intended to be installed in a motor
vehicle to fulfill the function of an air bag and that is not in conformance
with Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208 for the make, model, and
model year of the vehicle in which the object is intended to be installed.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly sell, install, or reinstall a device in a
motor vehicle that causes the diagnostic system of a vehicle to inaccurately
indicate that the vehicle is equipped with a functional air bag.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (D) of this section is guilty
of improper replacement of a motor vehicle air bag, a misdemeanor of the first
degree on a first offense. On each subsequent offense, or if the violation
results in serious physical harm to an individual, the person is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Each manufacture, importation, installation, reinstallation, sale,
or offer for sale in violation of this section shall constitute a separate and
distinct violation.
(R.C. § 4549.20)
LOADS
§ 74.50 PERMIT REQUIRED TO EXCEED LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The municipality, with respect to highways under their
jurisdiction, upon application in writing, shall issue a special regional heavy
hauling permit authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or
combination of vehicles as follows:
         (a)   At a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum
specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with
R.C. §§ 4513.01 to 4513.37.
         (b)   Upon any highway under the jurisdiction of municipality except
those highways with a condition insufficient to bear the weight of the vehicle
or combination of vehicles as stated in the application.
         (c)   Issuance of a special regional heavy hauling permit is subject
to the payment of a fee established by the municipality in accordance with this
section.
      (2)   In circumstances where a person is not eligible to receive a permit
under division (A)(1) of this section, the municipality, with respect to
highways under its jurisdiction, upon application in writing and for good cause
shown, may issue a special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to
operate or move a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight of
vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with R.C. §§ 4513.01 through 4513.37,
upon any highway under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 715.22 and 723.01, the holder of a
permit issued by the Ohio Director of Transportation under R.C. § 4513.34 may
move the vehicle or combination of vehicles described in the permit on any
highway that is a part of the state highway system when the movement is partly
within and partly without the corporate limits of the municipality. No local
authority shall require any other permit or license or charge any license fee
or other charge against the holder of a permit for the movement of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles on any highway which is a part of the state highway
system. The Ohio Director of Transportation shall not require the holder of a
permit issued by the municipality to obtain a special permit for the movement
of vehicles or combination of vehicles on highways within the jurisdiction of
the municipality.
      (2)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4513.34(B)(3), permits may be issued
for any period of time not to exceed one year, as the local authority in its
discretion determines advisable or for the duration of any public construction
project.
   (C)   (1)   The application for a permit issued under this section shall be
in the form that the municipality prescribes. The municipality may prescribe a
permit fee to be imposed and collected when any permit described in this
section is issued. The permit fee may be in an amount sufficient to reimburse
the municipality for the administrative costs incurred in issuing the permit,
and also to cover the cost of normal and expected damage caused to the roadway
or a street or highway structure as the result of the operation of the
nonconforming vehicle or combination of vehicles.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the
Director under R.C. § 4513.34, milk transported in bulk by vehicle is deemed a
nondivisible load.
      (3)   For purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the Director
under R.C. § 4513.34, three or fewer aluminum coils, transported by a vehicle,
are deemed a nondivisible load. The Director shall adopt rules establishing
requirements for an aluminum coil permit that are substantially similar to the
requirements for a steel coil permit under O.A.C. Chapter 5501:2-1.
   (D)   The municipality shall issue a special regional heavy hauling permit
under division (A)(1) of this section upon application and payment of the
applicable fee. However, the municipality may issue or withhold a special
permit specified in division (A)(2) of this section. If a permit is to be
issued, the municipality may limit or prescribe conditions of operation for the
vehicle and may require the posting of a bond or other security conditioned
upon the sufficiency of the permit fee to compensate for damage caused to the
roadway or a street or highway structure. In addition, the municipality, as a
condition of issuance of an overweight permit, may require the applicant to
develop and enter into a mutual agreement with the municipality to compensate
for or to repair excess damage caused to the roadway by travel under the
permit.
   (E)   Every permit issued under this section shall be carried in the vehicle
or combination of vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to inspection
by any police officer or authorized agent of any authority granting the permit.
No person shall violate any of the terms of a permit.
   (F)   The Director of Transportation may debar an applicant from applying
for a special permit under this section upon a finding based on a reasonable
belief that the applicant has done any of the actions specified in R.C. §
4513.34(F).
   (G)   Notice and procedures for debarment shall be as provided in R.C. §
4513.34(G).
   (H)   (1)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to gross load limits.
      (2)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to axle load by more than 2,000 pounds per axle or group of
axles.
      (3)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to an approved route except upon order of a law enforcement
officer or authorized agent of the issuing authority.
   (I)   A permit issued by the municipality under this section for the
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles is valid for the purposes of
the vehicle operation in accordance with the conditions and limitations
specified on the permit. Such a permit is voidable by law enforcement only for
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles in violation of the weight,
dimension, or route provisions of the permit. However, a permit is not voidable
for operation in violation of a route provision of a permit if the operation is
upon the order of a law enforcement officer.
(R.C. § 4513.34)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
Statutory reference:
   Overweight or oversized vehicles, state permit regulations, see O.A.C.
Chapter 5501:2-1
§ 74.51 LIMITATION OF LOAD EXTENSION ON LEFT SIDE OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on a highway with any load
carried on the vehicle which extends more than six inches beyond the line of
the fenders on the vehicle’s left side.
(R.C. § 4513.30)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.52 ALL LOADS SHALL BE PROPERLY SECURED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the vehicle
is so constructed, loaded, or covered as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand
or other substances may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or
water or other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or
maintaining the roadway.
   (B)   Except for a farm vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials or a rubbish vehicle in the process of
acquiring its load, no vehicle loaded with garbage, swill, cans, bottles, waste
paper, ashes, refuse, trash, rubbish, waste, wire, paper, cartons, boxes,
glass, solid waste, or any other material of an unsanitary nature that is
susceptible to blowing or bouncing from a moving vehicle shall be driven or
moved on any highway unless the load is covered with a sufficient cover to
prevent the load or any part of the load from spilling onto the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.31)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.53 TOWING REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTION TO SIZE AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   When one vehicle is towing another vehicle, the drawbar or other
connection shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed
thereby, and the drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one
vehicle to the other, except the connection between any two vehicles
transporting poles, pipe, machinery, or other objects of structural nature
which cannot readily be dismembered.
      (2)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists only
of a chain, rope, or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a
white flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.    
      (3)   In addition to such drawbar or other connection, each trailer and
each semitrailer which is not connected to a commercial tractor by means of a
fifth wheel shall be coupled with stay chains or cables to the vehicle by which
it is being drawn. These chains or cables shall be of sufficient size and
strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle in
case the drawbar or other connection should break or become disengaged. In case
of a loaded pole trailer, the connecting pole to the drawing vehicle shall be
coupled to the drawing vehicle with stay chains or cables of sufficient size
and strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle.
      (4)   Every trailer or semitrailer, except pole and cable trailers and
pole and cable dollies operated by a public utility as defined in R.C. §
5C.F.R.7.01, shall be equipped with a coupling device which shall be so
designed and constructed that the trailer will follow substantially in the path
of the vehicle drawing it, without whipping or swerving from side to side.
Vehicles used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production
materials between a local place of storage and supply and the farm, when drawn
or towed on a street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less, and
vehicles designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of
storage and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a
street or highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25
miles per hour or less, shall have a drawbar or other connection, including the
hitch mounted on the towing vehicle, which shall be of sufficient strength to
pull all the weight towed thereby. Only one such vehicle used to transport
agricultural produce or agricultural production materials as provided in this
section may be towed or drawn at one time except as follows:
         (a)   An agricultural tractor may tow or draw more than one such
vehicle;
         (b)   A pickup truck or straight truck designed by the manufacturer to
carry a load of not less than one-half ton and not more than two tons may tow
or draw not more than two such vehicles that are being used to transport
agricultural produce from the farm to a local place of storage. No vehicle
being so towed by such a pickup truck or straight truck shall be considered to
be a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.32)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
   (C)   Exception to size and weight restrictions.
      (1)   The size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter
5577 do not apply to a any of the following:
         (a)   A person who is engaged in the initial towing or removal of a
wrecked or disabled motor vehicle from the site of an emergency on a public
highway where the vehicle became wrecked or disabled to the nearest site where
the vehicle can be brought into conformance with the requirements of this
chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577, to the nearest storage facility, or to the
nearest qualified repair facility;
         (b)   A person who is en route to the site of an emergency on a public
highway to remove a wrecked or disabled motor vehicle;
         (c)   A person who is returning from delivering a wrecked or disabled
motor vehicle to a site, storage facility, or repair facility as specified in
division (C)(1)(a) of this section.
      (2)   Any subsequent towing of a wrecked or disabled vehicle shall comply
with the size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577.
      (3)   No court shall impose any penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99 or
the civil liability established in R.C. § 5577.12 upon a person who is
operating a vehicle in the manner described in division (C)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 5577.15)
§ 74.54 WEIGHING OF VEHICLE; REMOVAL OF EXCESS LOAD.
   (A)   Any police officer having reason to believe that the weight of a
vehicle and its load is unlawful may require the driver of the vehicle to stop
and submit to a weighing of it by means of a compact, self- contained,
portable, sealed scale specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of
vehicles on highways; a sealed scale permanently installed in a fixed location,
having a load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the wheel
loads of highway vehicles; a sealed scale, permanently installed in a fixed
location, having a load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the
combined load of all wheels on a single axle or on successive axles of a
highway vehicle; or a sealed scale adapted to weighing highway vehicles, loaded
or unloaded.
   (B)   The driver of the vehicle shall, if necessary, be directed to proceed
to the nearest available sealed scales to accomplish the weighing, provided the
scales are within three miles of the point where the vehicle is stopped.
   (C)   Any vehicle stopped in accordance with this section may be held by the
police officer for a reasonable time only to accomplish the weighing as
prescribed by this section.
   (D)   All scales used in determining the lawful weight of a vehicle and its
load shall be annually compared by a municipal, county or state sealer with the
state standards or standards approved by the state, and the scales shall not be
sealed if they do not conform to the state standards or standards approved by
the state.
   (E)   At each end of a permanently installed scale, there shall be a
straight approach in the same plane as the platform, of sufficient length and
width to insure the level positioning of vehicles during weight determinations.
During determination of weight by compact, self-contained, portable, sealed
scales, specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways, they shall always be used on a level terrain of sufficient length and
width to accommodate the entire vehicle being weighed. Such terrain shall be
level, or if not level, it shall be of such elevation that the difference in
elevation between the wheels on any one axle does not exceed two inches and the
difference in elevation between axles being weighed does not exceed one-quarter
inch per foot of the distance between such axles.
   (F)   In all determinations of all weights, except gross weight, by compact,
self-contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to determining the
wheel loads of vehicles on highways, all successive axles, 12 feet or less
apart, shall be weighed simultaneously by placing one such scale under the
outside wheel of each such axle. In determinations of gross weight by the use
of compact, self-contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to
determining the wheel loads of vehicles on highways, all axles shall be weighed
simultaneously by placing one such scale under the outside wheel of each axle.
   (G)   Whenever an officer, upon weighing a vehicle and load, determines that
the weight is unlawful, he or she may require the driver to stop the vehicle in
a suitable place and remain standing until such portion of the load is removed
as is necessary to reduce the weight of the vehicle to the limit permitted
under R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.14 and this chapter.
(R.C. § 4513.33)
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of weight limits, approval of Director required, see R.C. §
4513.33
§ 74.55 OPERATION OF VEHICLE EXCEEDING WEIGHT LIMITS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move a traction engine, steam roller, or
other vehicle, load, object or structure, whether propelled by muscular or
motor power, over or upon the improved public streets, highways, bridges, or
culverts in this municipality, that weighs in excess of the weights prescribed
in this subchapter or R.C. §§ 5577.01 et seq., unless the person has been
issued a permit under R.C. § 4513.34, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. The prohibition in this section applies regardless of whether the
weight is moved upon wheels, rollers, or otherwise. Any weight determination
shall include the weight of the vehicle, object, structure, contrivance, and
load.
(R.C. § 5577.02)
   (B)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of this section shall be fined
$80 for the first 2,000 pounds, or fraction thereof, of overload; for overloads
in excess of 2,000 pounds, but not in excess of 5,000 pounds, such person shall
be fined $100, and in addition thereto $1 per 100 pounds of overload; for
overloads in excess of 5,000 pounds but not in excess of 10,000 pounds, such
person shall be fined $130, and in addition thereto $2 per 100 pounds of
overload, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. For all overloads in
excess of 10,000 pounds, such person shall be fined $160, and in addition
thereto $3 per 100 pounds of overload, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or
both. Whoever violates the weight provisions of vehicle and load relating to
gross load limits shall be fined not less than $100. No penalty prescribed in
this division (B)(2) shall be imposed on any vehicle combination if the
overload on any one axle does not exceed 1,000 pounds, and if the immediately
preceding or following axle, excepting the front axle of the vehicle
combination, is underloaded by the same or greater amount. For purposes of this
division (B)(2), two axles on one vehicle less than eight feet apart shall be
considered as one axle.
(R.C. § 5577.99(A))
§ 74.56 LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   Weight of load; width of tire. No person, firm or corporation shall
transport over the improved public streets, alleys, intercounty highways, state
highways, bridges or culverts in this municipality, in any vehicle propelled by
muscular, motor or other power, any burden, including weight of vehicle and
load, greater than the following:
      (1)   (a)   In vehicles having metal tires three inches or less in width,
a load of 500 pounds for each inch of the total width of the tire on all
wheels;
         (b)   When the tires on such vehicles exceed three inches in width, an
additional load of 800 pounds shall be permitted for each inch by which the
total width of the tires on all wheels exceeds 12 inches.
      (2)   In vehicles having tires of rubber or other similar substance, for
each inch of the total width of tires on all wheels, as follows:
 
Tire Width (in inches) Load Limit (in pounds)
3                      450
3.5                    450
4                      500
5                      600
6 and over             650
 
      (3)   The total width of tires on all wheels shall be, in the case of
solid tires of rubber or other similar substance, the actual width in inches of
all such tires between the flanges at the base of the tires, but in no event
shall that portion of tire coming in contact with the road surface be less than
two-thirds the width so measured between the flanges.
      (4)   In the case of pneumatic tires, of rubber or other similar
substance, the total width of tires on all wheels shall be the actual width of
all such tires, measured at the widest portion thereof when inflated and not
bearing a load.
      (5)   In no event shall the load, including the proportionate weight of
vehicle that can be concentrated on any wheel, exceed 650 pounds to each inch
in width of the tread as defined in this division (A) for solid tires, or each
inch in the actual diameter of pneumatic tires measured when inflated and not
bearing a load.
(R.C. § 5577.03)
   (B)   Vehicles with pneumatic tires, load limits.
      (1)   The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of any vehicle, load,
object or structure operated or moved upon improved public highways, streets,
bridges or culverts shall not exceed 650 pounds per inch width of pneumatic
tire, measured as prescribed by division (A) of this section.
      (2)   The weight of the vehicle and load imposed upon a road surface that
is part of the interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not
exceed any of the following weight limitations:
         (a)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds;
         (b)   On any tandem axle, 34,000 pounds;
         (c)   On any two or more consecutive axles, the maximum weight as
determined by application of the formula provided in division (B)(3) of this
section.
      (3)   (a)   For purposes of division (B)(2)(c) of this section, the
maximum gross weight on any two or more consecutive axles shall be determined
by application of the following formula: W = 500[(LN/–1) + 12N + 36]
         (b)   In this formula, W equals the overall gross weight on any group
of two or more consecutive axles to the nearest 500 pounds, L equals the
distance in rounded whole feet between the extreme of any group of two or more
consecutive axles, and N equals the number of axles in the group under
consideration. However, two consecutive sets of tandem axles may carry a gross
load of 34,000 pounds each, provided the overall distance between the first and
last axles of such consecutive sets of tandem axles is 36 feet or more.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (B)(9) of this section, the weight
of vehicle and load imposed upon a road surface that is not part of the
interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not exceed any of the
following weight limitations:
         (a)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds.
         (b)   On any two successive axles:
            1.   Spaced four feet or less apart, and weighed simultaneously,
24,000 pounds;
            2.   Spaced more than four feet apart, and weighed simultaneously,
34,000 pounds, plus 1,000 pounds per foot or fraction thereof, over four feet,
not to exceed 40,000 pounds.
         (c)   On any three successive load-bearing axles designed to equalize
the load between such axles and spaced so that each such axle of the three-axle
group is more than four feet from the next axle in the three-axle group and so
that the spacing between the first axle and the third axle in the three-axle
group is no more than nine feet, and with such load-bearing three-axle group
weighed simultaneously as a unit:
            1.   A weight of 48,000 pounds, with the total weight of the
vehicle and load not exceeding 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900 pounds for
each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the
vehicle;
            2.   As an alternative to division (B)(4)(c)1. of this section,
42,500 pounds, if part of a six-axle vehicle combination with at least 20 feet
of spacing between the front axle and rearmost axle, with the total weight of
the vehicle and load not exceeding 54,000 pounds plus an additional 600 pounds
per each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the
vehicle.
         (d)   The total weight of the vehicle and load utilizing any
combination of axles, other than as provided for three-axle groups in division
(B)(4) of this section, shall not exceed 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900
pounds for each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of
the vehicle.
      (5)   Notwithstanding divisions (B)(2) and (B)(4) of this section, the
maximum overall gross weight of a vehicle and load imposed upon the road
surface shall not exceed 80,000 pounds.
      (6)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a vehicle is
towing another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection shall be of a length
such as will limit the spacing between nearest axles of the respective vehicles
to a distance not in excess of 12.5 feet.
      (7)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section, TANDEM AXLE means two
or more consecutive axles whose centers may be included between parallel
transverse vertical planes spaced more than 40 inches but not more than 96
inches apart, extending across the full width of the vehicle.
      (8)   This division (B) does not apply to passenger bus type vehicles
operated by a regional transit authority pursuant to R.C. §§ 306.30 through
306.54.
      (9)   Either division (B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section applies to the
weight of a vehicle and its load imposed upon any road surface that is not a
part of the interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires. As between
divisions (B)(2) and (B)(4) of this section, only the division that yields the
highest total gross vehicle weight limit shall be applied to any such vehicle.
Once that division has been determined, only the limits contained in the
subdivisions of that division shall apply to that vehicle.
(R.C. § 5577.04)
   (C)   Axle and wheel load, gross weights and towing connection length for
solid rubber tires.
      (1)   No vehicle, load, object or structure having a maximum axle load
greater than 16,000 pounds when such vehicle is equipped with solid rubber
tires shall be operated or moved upon the improved public highways, streets,
bridges or culverts. The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of such vehicle
shall not exceed 650 pounds per inch width of tire, measured as prescribed by
division (A) of this section, nor shall any solid tire or rubber or other
resilient material, on any wheel of any such vehicle, be less than one inch
thick when measure from the top of the flanges of the tire channel.
      (2)   The weight of vehicle and load imposed upon the road surface by any
two successive axles, spaces four feet or less apart, shall not exceed 19,000
pounds for solid tires; or by any two successive axles spaced more than four
feet but less than eight feet apart, shall not exceed 24,000 pounds for solid
tires; or by any two successive axles, spaced eight feet or more apart, shall
not exceed 28,000 pounds for solid tires; nor shall the total weight of vehicle
and load exceed, for solid rubber tires, 28,000 pounds plus an additional 600
pounds for each foot or fraction thereof of spacing between the front axle and
the rear-most axle of the vehicle; nor shall the weight of the vehicle and load
imposed upon the road surface by any vehicle equipped with solid rubber tires
exceed 80% of the permissible weight of vehicle and load as provided for
pneumatic tires.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a vehicle is
towing another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection shall be of a length
such as will limit the spacing between the nearest axles of the respective
vehicles to a distance not in excess of 12.5 feet. If the provisions of this
division (C) are held to exceed the weight limitations or other provisions set
forth in the “Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1958”, C.F.R. Stat. 902, 23 U.S.C. §
127, this division (C) shall become null and void to the extent of such
inconsistency.
(R.C. § 5577.041)
   (D)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C))
      (2)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of this section shall be
punished as set forth in §
74.55(B).
   (E)   Modification of load limits. The load limits established in this
section may be modified or waived upon special permission granted as provided
in R.C. § 4513.34 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
§ 74.57 MAXIMUM WIDTH, HEIGHT, AND LENGTH.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be operated upon the public highways, streets,
bridges, and culverts within this municipality whose dimensions exceed those
specified in this section.
   (B)   No such vehicle shall have a width:
      (1)   In excess of 104 inches for passenger bus type vehicles operated
exclusively within the municipality.
      (2)   In excess of 102 inches, excluding such safety devices as are
required by law, for passenger bus type vehicles operated over freeways, and
such other state roads with minimum pavement widths of 22 feet, except those
roads or portions of roads over which operation of 102-inch buses is prohibited
by order of the Director of Transportation.
      (3)   In excess of 132 inches for traction engines.
      (4)   In excess of 102 inches for recreational vehicles, excluding safety
devices and retracted awnings and other appurtenances of six inches or less in
width and except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch
recreational vehicles on designated state highways or portions of highways.
      (5)   In excess of 102 inches, including load, for all other vehicles,
except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch vehicles on
such state highways or portions of state highways as the Director designates.
   (C)   No such vehicle shall have a length:
      (1)   In excess of 66 feet for passenger bus type vehicles and
articulated passenger bus type vehicles operated by a regional transit
authority pursuant to R.C. §§ 306.30 through 306.54.
      (2)   In excess of 45 feet for all other passenger bus type vehicles.
      (3)   In excess of 53 feet for any semitrailer when operated in a
commercial tractor-semitrailer combination, with or without load, except that
the Director may prohibit the operation of any such commercial tractor-
semitrailer combination on such state highways or portions of state highways as
the Director designates.
      (4)   In excess of 28.5 feet for any semitrailer or trailer when operated
in a commercial tractor- semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-semitrailer-
semitrailer combination, except that the Director may prohibit the operation of
any such commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-
semitrailer-semitrailer combination on such state highways or portions of state
highways as the Director designates.
      (5)   (a)   In excess of 97 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle
transporter combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle
transporter combinations when operated on any interstate, United States route,
or state route, including reasonable access travel on all other roadways for a
distance not to exceed one road mile from any interstate, United States route,
or state route, not to exceed three saddlemounted vehicles, but which may
include one fullmount;
         (b)   In excess of 75 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle
transporter combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle
transporter combinations when operated on any roadway not designated as an
interstate, United States route, or state route, not to exceed three
saddlemounted vehicles, but which may include one fullmount.
      (6)   In excess of 65 feet for any other combination of vehicles coupled
together, with or without load, except as provided in division (C)(3) and (C)
(4), and in division (E) below.
      (7)   In excess of 45 feet for recreational vehicles.
      (8)   In excess of 50 feet for all other vehicles, except trailers and
semitrailers, with or without load.
   (D)   No such vehicle shall have a height in excess of 13.5 feet, with or
without load.
   (E)   An automobile transporter or boat transporter shall be allowed a
length of 65 feet, and a stinger- steered automobile transporter or stinger-
steered boat transporter shall be allowed a length of 75 feet, except that the
load thereon may extend no more than four feet beyond the rear of such vehicles
and may extend no more than three feet beyond the front of such vehicles, and
except further that the Director may prohibit the operation of a stinger-
steered automobile transporter, stinger-steered boat transporter, or a B-train
assembly on any state highway or portion of any state highway that the Director
designates.
   (F)   (1)   The widths prescribed in division (B) of this section shall not
include side mirrors, turn signal lamps, marker lamps, handholds for cab entry
and egress, flexible fender extensions, mud flaps, splash and spray suppressant
devices, and load-induced tire bulge.
      (2)   The widths prescribed in division (B)(5) of this section shall not
include automatic covering devices, tarp and tarp hardware, and tiedown
assemblies, provided these safety devices do not extend more than three inches
from either side of the vehicle.
      (3)   The lengths prescribed in divisions (C)(2) through (C)(7) shall not
include safety devices, bumpers attached to the front or rear of such bus or
combination, non-property carrying devices or components that do not extend
more than 24 inches beyond the rear of the vehicle and are needed for loading
or unloading, B-train assembly used between the first and second semitrailer of
a commercial tractor-semitrailer-semitrailer combination, energy conservation
devices as provided in any regulations adopted by the Secretary of the United
States Department of Transportation, or any noncargo-carrying refrigerator
equipment attached to the front of trailers and semitrailers. In special cases,
vehicles that dimensions exceed those prescribed by this section may operate in
accordance with rules adopted by the Director.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to fire engines, fire trucks, or
other vehicles or apparatus belonging to the municipality or to the volunteer
fire department thereof or used by such department in the discharge of its
functions. This section does not apply to vehicles and pole trailers used in
the transportation of wooden and metal poles, nor to the transportation of
pipes or well-drilling equipment, nor to farm machinery and equipment.
      (2)   The owner or operator of any vehicle, machinery, or equipment not
specifically enumerated in this section but the dimensions of which exceed the
dimensions provided by this section, when operating the same on the highways
and streets of the municipality, shall comply with the rules of the Director
governing such movement. Any person adversely affected shall have the same
right of appeal as provided in R.C. Chapter 119.
      (3)   This section does not require the municipality or any railroad or
other private corporation to provide sufficient vertical clearance to permit
the operation of such vehicle, or to make any changes in or about existing
structures now crossing streets, roads, and other public thoroughfares.
   (H)   As used in this section, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 5577.05)
   (I)   No person shall violate any rule or regulation promulgated by the
Director of Transportation in accordance with R.C. § 5577.05.
(R.C. § 5577.06)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C))
§ 74.58 STATEMENT OF GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT.
   (A)   No person shall issue or aid in issuing any bill of lading or other
document of like nature in lieu thereof, which bill or document is to accompany
a shipment of goods or property by truck, trailer, semitrailer, commercial
tractor, or any other commercial vehicle used for the transportation of
property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons, with intent
to defraud by misrepresentation thereon the weight of such goods of property to
be so transported.
   (B)   Any driver or operator of a commercial car, trailer or semitrailer may
obtain from any person, firm, partnership, corporation or association,
including the owner, lessee, or operator of such commercial car, trailer or
semitrailer, owning and operating sealed scales in this state, a written
“statement of gross vehicle weight” showing the gross weight of the vehicle
including the cargo on the vehicle, the name and address of the person issuing
the statement, and the date and place where the vehicle and its cargo were
weighed. The driver or operator of the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer
shall retain such statement of gross vehicle weight on his or her person, and
any law enforcement officer may request that such driver or operator exhibit it
to him or her. If, upon examining the statement of gross vehicle weight, the
law enforcement officer has reason to believe that the information contained
therein is correct in every respect, he or she shall indorse it with his or her
name and the date and place where it was exhibited to him or her. The law
enforcement officer may then permit such driver or operator to proceed without
weighing by a law enforcement officer. No person shall willfully issue a
written statement of gross vehicle weight and knowingly give any false
information in such statement.
(R.C. § 5577.10)
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be fined not more
than $5,000 or imprisoned for not less than 30 days nor more than six months,
or both.
(R.C. § 5577.99(D))
§ 74.59 WHEEL PROTECTORS REQUIRED ON HEAVY COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall drive or operate, or cause to be driven or operated,
any commercial car, trailer, or semitrailer, used for the transportation of
goods or property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons,
upon the public highways, streets, bridges, and culverts within the
municipality, unless such vehicle is equipped with suitable metal protectors or
substantial flexible flaps on the rearmost wheels of such vehicle or
combination of vehicles to prevent, as far as practicable, the wheels from
throwing dirt, water, or other materials on the windshields of following
vehicles. Such protectors or flaps shall have a ground clearance of not more
than one-third of the distance from the center of the rearmost axle to the
center of the flaps under any conditions of loading of the vehicle, and they
shall be at least as wide as the tires they are protecting. If the vehicle is
so designed and constructed that such requirements are accomplished by means of
fenders, body construction, or other means of enclosure, then no such
protectors or flaps are required. Rear wheels not covered at the top by
fenders, bodies, or other parts of the vehicle shall be covered at the top by
protective means extending at least to the center line of the rearmost axle.
(R.C. § 5577.11)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $25.
(R.C. § 5577.99(E))
§ 74.60 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES; PROSECUTION; APPLICATION OF MONIES.
   Any person violating any law relating to or regulating the use of the
improved public roads shall be liable for all damage resulting to any such
street, highway, bridge or culvert by reason of such violation. In case of any
injury to such street, highway, bridge or culvert, such damages shall be
collected by civil action for recovery of such damages brought by the proper
authorities of the municipality. All damages collected under this section shall
be paid into the treasury of the municipality and credited to any fund for the
repairs of streets, highways, roads, bridges or culverts.
(R.C. § 5577.12)
§ 74.61 WEIGHT EXCEPTIONS FOR CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      COAL TRUCK. Means a truck transporting coal from the site where it is
mined when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      FARM COMMODITIES. Includes livestock, bulk milk, corn, soybeans, tobacco
and wheat.
      FARM MACHINERY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      FARM TRUCK. Means a truck used in the transportation from a farm of farm
commodities when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      LOG TRUCK. Means a truck used in the transportation of timber from the
site of its cutting when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      SOLID WASTE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3743.01.
      SOLID WASTE HAUL VEHICLE. Means a vehicle hauling solid waste for which a
bill of lading has not been issued.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the following vehicles under the
described conditions may exceed by no more than 7.5% the weight provisions of
R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, and no penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be imposed:
         (a)   A coal truck transporting coal, from the place of production to
the first point of delivery where title to the coal is transferred;
         (b)   A farm truck or farm machinery transporting farm commodities,
from the place of production to the first point of delivery where the
commodities are weighed and title to the commodities is transferred;
         (c)   A log truck transporting timber, from the site of its cutting to
the first point of delivery where the timber is transferred;
         (d)   A solid waste haul vehicle hauling solid waste, from the place
of production to the first point of delivery where the solid waste is disposed
of or title to the solid waste is transferred.
      (2)   In addition, if any of the vehicles listed in division (B)(1) of
this section and operated under the conditions described in that division does
not exceed by more than 7.5% the gross vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§
5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
does not exceed the wheel or axle-load limits of those sections by more than
7.5%, no penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, for a wheel or axle overload shall be imposed.
   (C)   If any of the vehicles listed in division (B)(1) of this section and
operated under the conditions described in that division exceeds the weight
provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, by more than the percentage allowance of either divisions
(B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section, both of the following apply without regard to
the allowance provided by this division (B) of this section:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   (1)   Division (B) of this section does not apply to the operation of
a farm truck, log truck, or farm machinery transporting farm commodities during
the months of February and March.
      (2)   Regardless of when the operation occurs, division (B) of this
section does not apply to the operation of a vehicle on either of the
following:
         (a)   A highway that is part of the interstate system;
         (b)   A highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. §§ 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.042)
   (E)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the following vehicles under the described
conditions may exceed by no more than 7.5% the weight provisions of R.C. §§
5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and no
penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall be imposed:
      (1)   A surface mining truck transporting minerals from the place where
the minerals are loaded to any of the following:
         (a)   The construction site where the minerals are discharged;
         (b)   The place where title to the minerals is transferred;
         (c)   The place of processing.
      (2)   A vehicle transporting hot mix asphalt material from the place
where the material is first mixed to the paving site where the material is
discharged;
      (3)   A vehicle transporting concrete from the place where the material
is first mixed to the site where the material is discharged;
      (4)   A vehicle transporting manure, turf, sod, or silage from the site
where the material is first produced to the first place of delivery;
      (5)   A vehicle transporting chips, sawdust, mulch, bark, pulpwood,
biomass, or firewood from the site where the product is first produced or
harvested to first point where the product is transferred.
   (F)   In addition, if any of the vehicles listed in division (E) of this
section and operated under the conditions described in that division do not
exceed by more than 7.5% the gross vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01
to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and do not
exceed the wheel or axle-load limits of those sections by more than 7.5%, no
penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, for a wheel or axle overload shall be imposed.
   (G)   If any of the vehicles listed in division (E) of this section and
operated under the conditions described in that division exceed the weight
provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, by more than the percentage allowance of either divisions
(E) or (F) of this section, both of the following apply without regard to the
allowance provided by division (E) or (F) of this section:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (H)   Divisions (E) and (F) of this section do not apply to the operation of
a vehicle listed in division (E) of this section on either of the following:
      (1)   A highway that is part of the interstate system;
      (2)   A highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. §§ 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.043)
   (I)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a vehicle fueled solely by compressed natural
gas or liquid natural gas or powered primarily by means of an electric battery
may exceed by not more than 2,000 pounds the gross vehicle weight provisions of
R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, or the axle load limits of those sections.
   (J)   If a vehicle described in division (I) of this section exceeds the
weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, by more than the allowance provided for in
division (I) of this section, both of the following apply:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (K)   Division (I) of this section does not apply to the operation of a
vehicle on a highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.044)
   (L)   Fire engine weight exemptions.
      (1)   As used in this division (L), FIRE ENGINE means a fire engine, fire
truck, or other vehicle or apparatus belonging to or used by any municipal,
township, or volunteer fire department, while in the discharge of its
functions.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a person may do both of the following without a
written permit issued under R.C. § 4513.34, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance:
         (a)   Operate a two-axle fire engine, with a front axle maximum weight
of 24,000 pounds and a rear axle maximum weight of 33,500 pounds and a minimum
wheelbase of 15 feet, on all roadways in the state;
         (b)   Operate a fire engine with a maximum gross vehicle weight of
86,000 pounds on the interstate highway system and within one road mile of an
interstate highway system entrance or exit ramp.
      (3)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4513.34, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, for any fire engine that requires a permit, the Ohio
Director of Transportation or local authority shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Issue the permit at no cost to the municipal, township, or
volunteer fire department;
         (b)   Issue a permit that expires five years after the date of
issuance.
(R.C. § 5577.045)
CHAPTER 75: BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
75.01   Bicycles; application of Title VII
   
75.02   Operation of motorized bicycle
   
75.03   Rules for bicycles, motorcycles, and snowmobiles
   
75.04   Prohibition against attaching bicycles and sleds to vehicles
   
75.05   Riding bicycles; motorcycles abreast
   
75.06   Equipment of bicycles
   
75.07   Safe riding regulations for bicycles; helmet requirements for bicycles,
skateboards and roller blades
   
75.08   Suspension of riding privileges; impounding of bicycles and other
equipment
   
75.09   Chapter not to apply on private residential property
   
75.10   Skateboards
   
75.11   Electric bicycles
Snowmobiles, Off-Highway Motorcycles, and All-Purpose Vehicles
   
75.25   Definitions
   
75.26   Equipment
   
75.27   Code application; prohibited operation
   
75.28   Permitted operation
   
75.29   Licensing requirements of operator
   
75.30   Maintenance of vehicles for hire
   
75.31   Accident reports
   
75.32   Impounding of vehicle
   
75.33   Local control within police power
   
75.34   Registration of vehicles
   
75.35   Certificate of title; prohibitions
Cross-reference:
   Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or utility
vehicles, see §
73.16
Statutory reference:
   Bicycle regulations to be consistent with state law, see R.C. § 4511.07(A)
(8)
   Protective eye devices required for motorcycle operators and passengers;
helmets required for persons under 18 years of age, see O.A.C. § 4501-17-01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 75.01 BICYCLES; APPLICATION OF TITLE VII.
   (A)   The provisions of this title that are applicable to bicycles or
electric bicycles apply whenever a bicycle or electric bicycle is operated upon
any highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, a bicycle operator
or electric bicycle operator who violates any provisions of this title
described in division (A) of this section that is applicable to bicycles or
electric bicycles may be issued a ticket, citation, or summons by a law
enforcement officer for the violation in the same manner as the operator of a
motor vehicle would be cited for the same violation. A person who commits any
such violation while operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not have any
points assessed against the person’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or probationary license under R.C. §
4510.036.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, in the case of a
violation of any provision of this title described in division (A) of this
section by a bicycle operator, electric bicycle operator, or motor vehicle
operator when the trier of fact finds that the violation by the motor vehicle
operator endangered the lives of bicycle riders or electric bicycle riders at
the time of the violation, the court, notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio
Revised Code to the contrary, may require the bicycle operator, electric
bicycle operator, or motor vehicle operator to take and successfully complete a
bicycling skills course approved by the court in addition to or in lieu of any
penalty otherwise prescribed by this Traffic Code or the Ohio Revised Code for
that violation.
   (D)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to violations of
R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4511.52)
§ 75.02 OPERATION OF MOTORIZED BICYCLE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking, unless all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person is 14 or 15 years of age and holds a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license issued after the person has passed the test provided
for in this section, or the person is 16 years of age or older and holds either
a valid commercial driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or a
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid motorized bicycle
license issued after the person has passed the test provided for in this
section, except that if a person is 16 years of age, has a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license and desires a motorized bicycle license, the person
is not required to comply with the testing requirements provided for in this
section.
      (2)   The motorized bicycle is equipped in accordance with the rules
adopted under division (B) of this section and is in proper working order.
      (3)   The person, if under 18 years of age, is wearing a protective
helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened and the
motorized bicycle is equipped with a rearview mirror.
      (4)   The person operates the motorized bicycle when practicable within
three feet of the right edge of the roadway obeying all traffic rules
applicable to vehicles.
   (B)   The Director of Public Safety, subject to R.C. Chapter 119, shall
adopt and promulgate rules concerning protective helmets, the equipment of
motorized bicycles, and the testing and qualifications of persons who do not
hold a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license. The test shall be as near
as practicable to the examination required for a motorcycle operator’s
endorsement under R.C. § 4507.11. The test shall also require the operator to
give an actual demonstration of the operator’s ability to operate and control a
motorized bicycle by driving one under the supervision of an examining officer.
   (C)   Every motorized bicycle license expires on the birthday of the
applicant in the fourth or eighth year after the date it is issued, based on
the period of renewal requested by the applicant. No motorized bicycle license
shall be issued for a period longer than eight years. A person who is 65 years
of age or older may only apply for a motorized bicycle license that expires on
the birthday of the applicant in the fourth year after the date it is issued.
   (D)   No person operating a motorized bicycle shall carry another person
upon the motorized bicycle.
   (E)   The protective helmet and rearview mirror required by division (A)(3)
of this section shall, on and after January 1, 1985, conform with rules adopted
by the Director under division (B) of this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A), (D), or (E) of this section is guilty
of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.521)
Statutory reference:
   Suspension of probationary motorized bicycle license by the state, see R.C.
§ 4510.34
§ 75.03 RULES FOR BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   As used in this section, SNOWMOBILE has the same meaning as given that
term in R.C. § 4519.01.
   (B)   (1)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall ride
other than upon or astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto or
carry any other person upon such bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon a
firmly attached and regular seat thereon, and no person shall ride upon a
bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon such a firmly attached and regular
seat.
      (2)   No person operating a motorcycle shall ride other than upon or
astride the permanent and regular seat or saddle attached thereto, or carry any
other person upon such motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular
seat or saddle thereon, and no person shall ride upon a motorcycle other than
upon such a firmly attached and regular seat or saddle.
      (3)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a
saddle other than while sitting astride the saddle, facing forward, with one
leg on each side of the motorcycle.
      (4)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a seat
other than while sitting upon the seat.
      (5)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle, or article that prevents the driver from keeping at least one
hand upon the handlebars.
      (6)   No bicycle, electric bicycle, or motorcycle shall be used to carry
more persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
No motorcycle shall be operated on a highway when the handlebars rise higher
than the shoulders of the operator when the operator is seated in the
operator’s seat or saddle.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no person
shall operate or be a passenger on a snowmobile or motorcycle without using
safety glasses or other protective eye device. Except as provided in division
(C)(3) of this section, no person who is under the age of 18 years, or who
holds a motorcycle operator’s endorsement or license bearing a “novice”
designation that is currently in effect as provided in R.C. § 4507.13, shall
operate a motorcycle on a highway, or be a passenger on a motorcycle, unless
wearing a protective helmet on the person’s head, and no other person shall be
a passenger on a motorcycle operated by such a person unless similarly wearing
a protective helmet. The helmet, safety glasses, or other protective eye device
shall conform with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety. The
provisions of this paragraph or a violation thereof shall not be used in the
trial of any civil action.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no
person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary instruction permit and
temporary instruction permit identification card issued by the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 unless the person, at the time of
such operation, is wearing on the person’s head a protective helmet that
conforms with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
         (b)   No person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary
instruction permit and temporary instruction permit identification card issued
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 in any of the
following circumstances:
            1.   At any time when lighted lights are required by R.C. § 4513.03
(A)(1);
            2.   While carrying a passenger;
            3.   On any limited access highway or heavily congested roadway.
      (3)   Divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2)(a) of this section do not apply to a
person who operates or is a passenger in an autocycle or cab-enclosed
motorcycle when the occupant compartment top is in place enclosing the
occupants.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the carrying
of a child in a seat or trailer that is designed for carrying children and is
firmly attached to the bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or
(C)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.53)
§ 75.04 PROHIBITION AGAINST ATTACHING BICYCLES AND SLEDS TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person riding upon any bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster,
roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or self
to any vehicle upon a roadway.
      (2)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person riding upon any
bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy
vehicle to attach the same or self to any vehicle while it is moving upon a
roadway.
      (3)   This section does not apply to towing a disabled vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.54)
§ 75.05 RIDING BICYCLES; MOTORCYCLES ABREAST.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle upon a roadway
shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable obeying all
traffic rules applicable to vehicles and exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles, electric bicycles, or motorcycles upon a
roadway shall ride not more than two abreast in a single lane, except on paths
or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, electric
bicycles, or motorcycles.
   (C)   This section does not require a person operating a bicycle or electric
bicycle to ride at the edge of the roadway when it is unreasonable or unsafe to
do so. Conditions that may require riding away from the edge of the roadway
include when necessary to avoid fixed or moving objects, parked or moving
vehicles, surface hazards, or if it otherwise is unsafe or impracticable to do
so, including if the lane is too narrow for the bicycle or electric bicycle and
an overtaking vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.55)
§ 75.06 EQUIPMENT OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle or electric bicycle when in use at the times specified
in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be
equipped with the following:
      (1)   A lamp mounted on the front of either the bicycle or electric
bicycle or the operator that shall emit a white light visible from a distance
of at least 500 feet to the front and 300 feet to the sides. A generator-
powered lamp that emits light only when the bicycle or electric bicycle is
moving may be used to meet this requirement.
      (2)   A red reflector on the rear that shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (3)   A lamp emitting either flashing or steady red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear shall be used in addition to the red
reflector. If the red lamp performs as a reflector in that it is visible as
specified in division (A)(2) of this section, the red lamp may serve as the
reflector and a separate reflector is not required.
   (B)   Additional lamps and reflectors may be used in addition to those
required under division (A) of this section, except that red lamps and red
reflectors shall not be used on the front of the bicycle or electric bicycle
and white lamps and white reflectors shall not be used on the rear of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (C)   A bicycle or electric bicycle may be equipped with a device capable of
giving an audible signal, except that a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not
be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle or electric bicycle
any siren or whistle.
   (D)   Every bicycle or electric bicycle shall be equipped with an adequate
brake when used on a street or highway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.56)
§ 75.07 SAFE RIDING REGULATIONS FOR BICYCLES; HELMET REQUIREMENTS FOR BICYCLES,
SKATEBOARDS AND ROLLER BLADES.
   (A)   Whenever a designated usable path for bicycles has been provided
adjacent to a street, bicycle riders shall use such path and shall not use the
street.
   (B)   Whenever a person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk or street, such
person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give an audible
signal before attempting to overtake and pass a pedestrian or another bicycle.
This audible signal must be given only by bell or other warning device capable
of giving an audible signal and shall be given at such a distance and in such a
manner as not to startle the person being overtaken and passed.
   (C)   No person shall ride a bicycle across or through any intersection
involving a through street. Such intersections are to be crossed by walking the
bicycle across or through the intersection.
   (D)   Whenever a person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, the person,
before overtaking and passing a blind person carrying a white or metallic cane,
shall dismount and overtake or pass on foot.
   (E)   When a bicycle is operated on the street, the operator shall give hand
signals before turning, changing lanes, or stopping. Such signals shall conform
with § 72.17.
   (F)   Every rider of a bicycle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding
with any pedestrian or any vehicle upon any roadway, sidewalk, or bicycle path,
or endangering the life, limb, or property of any person while in the lawful
use of the streets, sidewalks, or any other private or public property.
   (G)   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is
reasonable and proper under the conditions then existing.
   (H)   The operator of a bicycle emerging from or turning into an alley,
driveway, or building shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area
extending across any alley, driveway, or building, yield the right-of-way to
all pedestrians approaching on such sidewalk area. Upon entering the street,
such operator shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on such
street.
   (I)   No person shall engage in trick riding or operate a bicycle without
both hands upon the handle grips except when necessary to give the hand signals
required herein.
   (J)   No person under the age of 16 shall operate a bicycle, skateboard, or
roller blade, or ride as a passenger on a bicycle equipped with a passenger
seat, within the village unless the person is wearing a protective helmet on
his or her head, with the chin strap fastened under his or her chin. Such
helmet shall be properly fitted to the size of the person and shall meet or
exceed the standards set by ANSI (American National Standards Institute) or
SNELL (Snell Memorial Foundation) for helmets manufactured before March, 1999,
and shall meet or exceed the standards set by the Consumer Product Safety
Institute after that date.
(Ord. 2000-046, passed 7-17-2000) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.08 SUSPENSION OF RIDING PRIVILEGES; IMPOUNDING OF BICYCLES AND OTHER
EQUIPMENT.
   In addition to the penalties provided in §
70.99, a court may prohibit any person who violates or fails to comply with any
of the provisions of this chapter relating to bicycles, skateboards, roller
skates, and roller blades from using such equipment for a period not to exceed
three months. In addition, any person violating or failing to comply with any
of the provisions of this chapter relating to bicycles, skateboards, roller
skates, and roller blades may be punished by having such equipment impounded
for a period not to exceed 30 days.
(Ord. 2000-046, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 75.09 CHAPTER NOT TO APPLY ON PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.
   The provisions of this chapter relating to the operation of bicycles,
skateboards, roller skates, or roller blades shall not apply to such operation
conducted on private residential property.
(Ord. 2000-046, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 75.10 SKATEBOARDS.
   (A)   This section is for the purpose of regulating skateboard usage.
SKATEBOARD is defined as any vehicle or device capable of being operated or
ridden by a person and consisting of a board, plank, or platform mounted on
wheels or rollers, whether propelled by gravity, muscle power, or mechanical
means, which is not equipped with a positive, mechanical means of steering such
vehicle or device.
   (B)   No person shall operate or ride, or cause to be operated or ridden, a
skateboard or skates within the central business district of the village, as
indicated on attached exhibit “A”, and any private property as posted.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2004-016, passed 7-19-2004)
§ 75.11 ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   On and after January 1, 2020, manufacturers and distributors of
electric bicycles shall permanently affix a label, in a prominent location, to
each electric bicycle. The label shall specify whether the electric bicycle is
a class 1, class 2, or class 3 electric bicycle, the top assisted speed that
the electric bicycle is capable of reaching, and the motor wattage of the
electric bicycle.
      (2)   No person shall modify an electric bicycle in a manner that changes
the top assisted speed that the electric bicycle is capable of reaching unless
the person also modifies the label required under division (A)(1) of this
section to reflect the modification.
   (B)   (1)   The manufacturer of an electric bicycle shall ensure that the
electric bicycle complies with the equipment and manufacturing requirements for
bicycles established by the consumer product safety commission under 16 C.F.R.
§§ 1512 et seq.
      (2)   The manufacturer shall manufacture all class 1 electric bicycles
and class 3 electric bicycles so that when the rider ceases pedaling the
electric motor ceases to provide assistance. The manufacturer shall manufacture
all class 2 electric bicycles so that when the rider applies the brakes or
releases or activates a switch or similar mechanism the electric motor ceases
to provide assistance.
      (3)   All class 3 electric bicycles shall be equipped with a speedometer
that displays the speed of the electric bicycle in miles per hour.
   (C)   (1)   The operation of a class 1 electric bicycle and a class 2
electric bicycle is permitted on a path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles or on a shared-use path, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule prohibits the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle or class 2 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (2)   No person shall operate a class 3 electric bicycle on a path set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles or a shared-use path unless that path
is within or adjacent to a highway or the county, township, municipal
corporation, or local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60 with
control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use of a
class 3 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (3)   No person shall operate a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2
electric bicycle, or a class 3 electric bicycle on a path that is intended to
be used primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar
uses, or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically
been reserved for non-motorized use, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2 electric bicycle, or a class 3
electric bicycle on such a path.
      (4)   Divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) of this section do not apply to a law
enforcement officer, or other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic
laws of the state, using an electric bicycle while in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
   (D)   (1)   No person under 16 years of age shall operate a class 3 electric
bicycle; however, a person under 16 years of age may ride as a passenger on a
class 3 electric bicycle that is designed to accommodate passengers.
      (2)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on a class 3 electric
bicycle unless the person is wearing a protective helmet that meets the
standards established by the Consumer Product Safety Commission or the American
Society for Testing and Materials.
   (E)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever operates
an electric bicycle in a manner that is prohibited under division (C) of this
section and whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under division (E)(1) of this section are
strict liability offenses and strict liability is a culpable mental state for
purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of these offenses as strict
liability offenses shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4511.522)
SNOWMOBILES, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLES, AND ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLES
§ 75.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for
cross-country travel on land and water, or on more than one type of terrain,
and steered by wheels or caterpillar treads, or any combination thereof,
including vehicles that operate on a cushion of air, vehicles commonly known as
all-terrain vehicles, all season vehicles, mini-bikes and trail bikes. The term
does not include a utility vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or any vehicle
principally used in playing golf, any motor vehicle or aircraft required to be
registered under R.C. Chapter 4503 or R.C. Chapter 4561, and any vehicle
excepted from definition as a motor vehicle by R.C. § 4501.01(B).
   DEALER. Any person or firm engaged in the business of manufacturing or
selling snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles at
wholesale or retail, or who rents, leases or otherwise furnishes snowmobiles,
off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles for hire.
   ELECTRONIC. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   ELECTRONIC DEALER. A dealer whom the Registrar of Motor Vehicles designates
under R.C. § 4519.511.
   ELECTRONIC RECORD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   HIGHWAY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   INTERSTATE HIGHWAY. Any part of the interstate system of highways as defined
in subsection (e), 90 Stat. 431 (1976), 23 U.S.C. § 103, as amended.
   LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY OR FREEWAY. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
5511.02.
   MINI-TRUCK. A vehicle that has four wheels, is propelled by an electric
motor with a rated power of 7,500 watts or less or an internal combustion
engine with a piston displacement capacity of 660 cubic centimeters or less,
has a total dry weight of 900 to 2,200 pounds, contains an enclosed cabin and a
seat for the vehicle operator, resembles a pickup truck or van with a cargo
area or bed located at the rear of the vehicle, and was not originally
manufactured to meet federal motor vehicle safety standards.
   OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE. Every motorcycle, as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that
is designed to be operated primarily on lands other than a street or highway.
   OPERATOR. Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle.
   OWNER. Any person or firm, other than a lienholder or dealer, having title
to a snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle, or other
right to the possession thereof.
   PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4509.01.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for use on snow or
ice, and steered by skis, runners or caterpillar treads.
   STATE HIGHWAY and STATE ROUTE. Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4519.01)
§ 75.26 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   In addition to any rules or regulations promulgated by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety pursuant to R.C. § 4519.20 and R.C. Chapter 119,
equipment of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles
shall include but not necessarily be limited to requirements for the following
items of equipment:
      (1)   At least one headlight having a minimum candlepower of sufficient
intensity to reveal persons and objects at a distance of at least 100 feet
ahead under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (2)   At least one red tail light having a minimum candlepower of
sufficient intensity to be plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
rear under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (3)   Every snowmobile, while traveling on packed snow, shall be capable
of carrying a driver who weighs 175 pounds or more, and, while carrying such
driver, be capable of stopping in no more than 40 feet from an initial steady
speed of 20 miles per hour, or locking its traction belt; and
      (4)   A muffler system capable of precluding the emission of excessive
smoke or exhaust fumes, and of limiting the engine noise of vehicles. On
snowmobiles manufactured after January 1, 1973, such requirement shall include
sound dampening equipment such that noise does not exceed 82 decibels on the
“A” scale at 50 feet as measured according to SAE J192 (September 1970).
   (B)   No person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle in violation of this section, except that equipment
specified in division (A)(1) and (A)(2) of this section shall not be required
on snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles operated
during the daylight hours.
(R.C. § 4519.20(A), (B))
   (C)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, lease, rent or otherwise furnish
for hire in this municipality any new snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle that fails to comply with any rule adopted by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4519.20 after the effective date of the
rule.
(R.C. § 4519.22(A))
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B) of this section shall be fined not more than $50. If the offender
within the preceding year previously has committed a violation of division (B)
of this section or of R.C. § 4519.20(B), whoever violates division (B) of this
section shall be fined not less than $15 nor more than $100, imprisoned not
more than three days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.20(C))
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (C) of this section shall be fined not more than $50. If the offender
within the preceding year previously has committed a violation of division (C)
of this section or of R.C. § 4519.22(A), whoever violates this section shall be
fined not less than $15 nor more than $100, imprisoned not more than three
days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.22(B))
§ 75.27 CODE APPLICATION; PROHIBITED OPERATION.
   (A)   The applicable provisions of this traffic code apply to the operation
of snowmobiles, off- highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles, except that
no person shall operate a snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle as follows:
      (1)   On any state highway, including a limited access highway or freeway
or the right-of-way thereof, except for emergency travel during such time and
in such manner as the Ohio Director of Public Safety designates or except as
authorized by R.C. § 4519.41(F);
      (2)   On any private property, or in any nursery or planting area,
without the permission of the owner or other person having the right to
possession of the property;
      (3)   On any land or waters controlled by the state, except at those
locations where a sign has been posted permitting such operation;
      (4)   On the tracks or right-of-way of any operating railroad;
      (5)   While transporting any firearm, bow or other implement for hunting
that is not unloaded and securely encased;
      (6)   For the purpose of chasing, pursuing, capturing or killing any
animal or wild fowl; or
      (7)   During the time from sunset to sunrise, unless displaying lighted
lights as required by R.C. § 4519.20 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not less than 3 nor more than 30 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.40)
Cross-reference:
   Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or utility
vehicles, see §
73.16
§ 75.28 PERMITTED OPERATION.
   Snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles may be
operated as follows:
   (A)   To make a crossing of a highway, other than a highway as designated in
R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
whenever the crossing can be made in safety and will not interfere with the
movement of vehicular traffic approaching from any direction on the highway,
and provided that the operator yields the right-of-way to any approaching
traffic that presents an immediate hazard;
   (B)   On highways in the county or township road systems whenever the local
authority having jurisdiction over such highways so permits;
   (C)   Off and alongside street or highway for limited distances from the
point of unloading from a conveyance to the point at which the snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle is intended and authorized to be
operated;
   (D)   On the berm or shoulder of a highway, other than a highway as
designated in R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, when the terrain permits such operation to be undertaken safely and
without the necessity of entering any traffic lane;
   (E)   On the berm or shoulder or a county or township road, while traveling
from one area of operation of the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle to another such area.
   (F)   For snowmobiles without metal studded tracks and all-purpose vehicles,
on state highways located on an island in Lake Erie, including limited access
highways and freeways, between the first day of November and the thirtieth day
of April, provided that all of the following conditions apply:
      (1)   The operator has a valid driver’s license as required under R.C. §
4519.44.
      (2)   The snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle is in compliance with rules
governing safety equipment adopted under R.C. § 4519.20.
      (3)   The owner of the snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle maintains proof
of financial responsibility for both on-road and off-road use of the snowmobile
or all-purpose vehicle.
      (4)   The operator obeys all traffic rules and regulations.
(R.C. § 4519.41)
§ 75.29 LICENSING REQUIREMENTS OF OPERATOR.
   (A)   No person who does not hold a valid, current motor vehicle driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, motorcycle operator’s endorsement or probationary
license, issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid,
current driver’s license issued by another jurisdiction, shall operate a
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle on any street or
highway in this municipality, on any portion of the right-of-way thereof, or on
any public land or waters.
   (B)   No person who is less than 16 years of age shall operate a snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle on any land or waters other than
private property or waters owned by or leased to the person’s parent or
guardian, unless accompanied by another person who is 18 years of age or older,
and who holds a license as provided in division (A) of this section, except
that the Ohio Department of Natural Resources may permit such operation on
state controlled land under its jurisdiction when such person is less than 16
years of age and is accompanied by a parent or guardian who is a licensed
driver 18 years of age or older.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not less than 3 nor more than 30 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.44)
§ 75.30 MAINTENANCE OF VEHICLES FOR HIRE.
   (A)   Any dealer who rents, leases or otherwise furnishes a snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle for hire shall maintain the vehicle
in safe operating condition. No dealer, or agent or employee of a dealer, shall
rent, lease or otherwise furnish a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle for hire to any person who does not hold a license as required
by R.C. § 4519.44(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or to
any person whom the dealer or an agent or employee of the dealer has reasonable
cause to believe is incompetent to operate the vehicle in a safe and lawful
manner.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500.
(R.C. § 4519.45)
§ 75.31 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (A)   The operator of a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle involved in any accident resulting in bodily injury to or death of any
person or damage to the property of any person in excess of $100 shall report
the accident within 48 hours to the Chief of Police, and within 30 days shall
forward a written report of the accident to the Ohio Registrar of Motor
Vehicles on a form prescribed by the Registrar. If the operator is physically
incapable of making the reports and there is another participant in the
accident not so incapacitated, the participant shall make the reports. In the
event there is no other participant, and the operator is other than the owner,
the owner, within the prescribed periods of time, shall make the reports.
   (B)   Any law enforcement officer or other person authorized by R.C. §§
4519.42 and 4519.43 who investigates or receives information of an accident
involving a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle shall
forward to the Registrar a written report of the accident within 48 hours.
(R.C. § 4519.46)
§ 75.32 IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever a person is found guilty of operating a snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all- purpose vehicle in violation of any rule authorized
to be adopted under R.C. §§ 4519.21 or 4519.42, the trial judge of any court of
record, in addition to or independent of any other penalties provided by law,
may impound for not less than 60 days the certificate of registration and
license plate, if applicable, of that snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle. The court shall send the impounded certificate of
registration and license plate, if applicable, to the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles, who shall retain the certificate of registration and license plate,
if applicable, until the expiration of the period of impoundment.
   (B)   If a court impounds the certificate of registration and license plate
of an all-purpose vehicle pursuant to R.C. § 2911.21, the court shall send the
impounded certificate of registration and license plate to the Registrar, who
shall retain them until the expiration of the period of impoundment.
(R.C. § 4519.47)
§ 75.33 LOCAL CONTROL WITHIN POLICE POWER.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall prevent the municipality from
regulating the operation of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycle, and all-
purpose vehicles on streets and highways and other public property under
municipal jurisdiction, and within the reasonable exercise of the police power,
except that no registration or licensing of any snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle required to be registered or titled under
R.C. Chapter 4519 shall be required.
(R.C. § 4519.48)
§ 75.34 REGISTRATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B), (C) and (D) of this section,
no person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle within this municipality unless the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle is registered and numbered in accordance with R.C. §§
4519.03 and 4519.04.
      (2)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.215 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, no registration is required for a mini-truck that is
operated within this state. A mini-truck may be operated only in accordance
with R.C. §§ 4511.215 and 4519.401, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   (1)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle that is operated exclusively upon lands owned by the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle, or on lands to which the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle has a contractual right.
      (2)   No registration is required for an all-purpose vehicle that is used
primarily for agricultural purposes when the owner qualifies for the current
agricultural use valuation tax credit, unless it is to be used on any public
land, trail, or right-of-way.
      (3)   Any all-purpose vehicle exempted from registration under division
(B)(2) of this section and operated for agricultural purposes may use public
roads and rights-of-way when traveling from one farm field to another, when
such use does not violate R.C. § 4519.41.
      (4)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle
that is operated on a state highway as authorized by R.C. § 4519.41(F).
   (C)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a resident of another
state whenever that state has in effect a registration law similar to R.C.
Chapter 4519 and the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle
is properly registered under that state’s law. Any snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a resident
of a state not having a registration law similar to R.C. Chapter 4519 shall
comply with R.C. § 4519.09.
   (D)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this municipality by the United
States, another state or a political subdivision thereof, but the snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle shall display the name of the
owner thereon.
   (E)   The owner or operator of any all-purpose vehicle operated or used upon
the waters in this municipality shall comply with R.C. Chapter 1547 and R.C.
Chapter 1548 relative to the operation of watercraft.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $100.
(R.C. § 4519.02)
Statutory reference:
   Destruction or disposal of vehicle; transfer of ownership; change of
address; loss of certificate, see R.C. § 4519.05
   Registration of emergency vehicles, see R.C. § 4519.08
   Registration procedure, see R.C. § 4519.03
   Temporary license placards and fees, see R.C. § 4519.10
   Temporary operating permit for certain nonresidents, see R.C. § 4519.09
§ 75.35 CERTIFICATE OF TITLE; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle without having a certificate of title for the off-highway motorcycle or
all-purpose vehicle if such a certificate is required by R.C. Chapter 4519 to
be issued for the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, or, if a
physical certificate of title has not been issued for it, operate an off-
highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle knowing that the ownership
information related to the motorcycle or vehicle has not been entered into the
automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common Pleas.
      (2)   Operate in this municipality an off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle is a certificate of title to the off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle has been issued and then has been canceled.
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title upon cancellation of it
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed
in R.C. Chapter 4519.
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4519, in case of the destruction or
dismantling of, or change in, the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle
described in the certificate of title.
      (5)   Violate any provision of R.C. §§ 4519.51 through 4519.70 for which
no penalty is otherwise provided or any lawful rules adopted pursuant to those
sections.
      (6)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle knowing that the certificate of title to or ownership of the motorcycle
or vehicle as otherwise reflected in the automated title processing system has
been canceled.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200,
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.66)
Statutory reference:
   Certificate of title: rules and procedures, see R.C. §§ 4519.51 et seq.
   Stolen vehicles and restrictions on sale or transfer, felony provisions, see
R.C. § 4519.67
CHAPTER 76: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
76.01   Prohibition against parking on highways
   
76.02   Condition when motor vehicle left unattended
   
76.03   Police may remove illegally parked vehicle
   
76.04   Parking prohibitions
   
76.05   Parking near curb; privileges for persons with disabilities
   
76.06   Parking on private property in violation of posted prohibition
   
76.07   Selling, washing or repairing vehicle upon roadway
   
76.08   Truck loading zones
   
76.09   Bus stops and taxicab stands
   
76.10   Parking in alleys and narrow streets; exceptions
   
76.11   Registered owner prima facie liable for unlawful parking
   
76.12   Waiver
   
76.13   Parking lots
   
76.14   Snow emergency
   
76.15   Outdoor front yard or on-street parking in residential zoning district
   
76.16   Blocking sidewalk with vehicle
Cross-reference:
   Unclaimed and abandoned vehicles, see
Chapter 95
   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates, see §
138.17
Statutory reference:
   Noncriminal parking infractions, local option to create, see R.C. Chapter
4521
§ 76.01 PROHIBITION AGAINST PARKING ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon any highway, no person shall stop, park, or leave standing
any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the paved or main traveled
part of the highway if it is practicable to stop, park, or so leave such
vehicle off the paved or main traveled part of the highway. In every event a
clear and unobstructed portion of the highway opposite such standing vehicle
shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view of such
stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each
direction upon such highway.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or improved or main traveled portion of a highway
in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle in such position.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.66)
§ 76.02 CONDITION WHEN MOTOR VEHICLE LEFT UNATTENDED.
   (A)   (1)   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit
it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition,
removing the key from the ignition, effectively setting the parking brake, and,
when the motor vehicle is standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to
the curb or side of the highway.
      (2)   The requirements of this section relating to the stopping of the
engine, locking of the ignition, and removing the key from the ignition of a
motor vehicle do not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   A motor vehicle that is parked on residential property;
         (b)   A motor vehicle that is locked, regardless of where it is
parked;
         (c)   An emergency vehicle ;
         (d)   A public safety vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.661)
§ 76.03 POLICE MAY REMOVE ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of R.C. § 4511.66 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
such officer may move such vehicle, or require the driver or other person in
charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the paved or improved
or main traveled part of such highway.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any
highway, bridge, or causeway, or in any tunnel, where such vehicles constitutes
an obstruction to traffic, such officer may provide for the removal of such
vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(R.C. § 4511.67)
§ 76.04 PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or to comply with the provisions of this
title, or while obeying the directions of a police officer or a traffic-control
device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk, except as provided in division (B) of this section;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet of, and upon the approach to, any flashing beacon,
stop sign, or traffic- control device;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by a traffic-control device;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of a driveway entrance to any fire station and, on
the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within 75
feet of the entrance when it is properly posted with signs;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   Alongside any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or elevated structure upon a highway, or within a
highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where signs prohibit stopping;
      (15)   Within one foot of another parked vehicle;
      (16)   On the roadway portion of a freeway, expressway, or thruway.
   (B)   A person is permitted, without charge or restriction, to stand or park
on a sidewalk a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter that has an engine not
larger than 150 cubic centimeters, a low- speed micromobility device, or a
bicycle or electric bicycle, provided that the motor-driven cycle, motor
scooter, low-speed micromobility device, bicycle, or electric bicycle does not
impede the normal flow of pedestrian traffic. This division does not authorize
any person to operate a vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.711, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.68)
(Ord. 2005-019, passed 6-6-2005)
§ 76.05 PARKING NEAR CURB; PRIVILEGES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of the
vehicle parallel with and not more than 12 inches from the right-hand curb,
unless it is impossible to approach so close to the curb; in such case the stop
shall be made as close to the curb as possible and only for the time necessary
to discharge and receive passengers or to load or unload merchandise. Local
authorities by ordinance may permit angle parking on any roadway under their
jurisdiction, except that angle parking shall not be permitted on a state route
within the municipality unless an unoccupied roadway width of not less than 25
feet is available for free-moving traffic.
   (B)   Local authorities by ordinance may permit parking of vehicles with the
left-hand wheels adjacent to and within 12 inches of the left-hand curb of a
one-way roadway.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(b) of this section,
no vehicle shall be stopped or parked on a road or highway with the vehicle
facing in a direction other than the direction of travel on that side of the
road or highway.
         (b)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into an
angled parking space so that when the motorcycle is parked it is facing in a
direction other than the direction of travel on the side of the road or
highway.
      (2)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into a parking
space that is located on the side of, and parallel to, a road or highway. The
motorcycle may face any direction when so parked. Not more than two motorcycles
at a time shall be parked in a parking space as described in division (C)(2) of
this section irrespective of whether or not the space is metered.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any statute or any rule, regulation, resolution, or
ordinance, air compressors, tractors, trucks, and other equipment, while being
used in the construction, reconstruction, installation, repair, or removal of
facilities near, on, over, or under a street or highway, may stop, stand, or
park where necessary in order to perform such work, provided a flagperson is on
duty or warning signs or lights are displayed as may be prescribed by the
Director of Transportation.
   (E)   Accessible parking locations and privileges for persons with
disabilities that limit or impair the ability to walk shall be provided and
designated by all political subdivisions and by the state and all agencies and
instrumentalities thereof at all offices and facilities where parking is
provided, whether owned, rented, or leased, and at all publicly owned parking
garages. The locations shall be designated through the posting of an elevated
sign, whether permanently affixed or movable, imprinted with the international
symbol of access and shall be reasonably close to exits, entrances, elevators,
and ramps. All elevated signs posted in accordance with this division and R.C.
§ 3781.111(C) shall be mounted on a fixed or movable post, and the distance
from the ground to the bottom edge of the sign shall measure not less than five
feet. If a new sign or a replacement sign designating an accessible parking
location is posted on or after October 14, 1999, there also shall be affixed
upon the surface of that sign or affixed next to the designating sign a notice
that states the fine applicable for the offense of parking a motor vehicle in
the designated accessible parking location if the motor vehicle is not legally
entitled to be parked in that location.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle at
accessible parking locations provided under division (E) of this section, or at
accessible clearly marked parking locations provided in or on privately owned
parking lots, parking garages, or other parking areas and designated in
accordance with that division, unless one of the following applies:
            1.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a valid removable windshield placard or accessible license plates;
or
            2.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability and is displaying a parking card or accessible
license plates.
         (b)   Any motor vehicle that is parked in an accessible marked parking
location in violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section
may be towed or otherwise removed from the parking location by the law
enforcement agency of the municipality. A motor vehicle that is so towed or
removed shall not be released to its owner until the owner presents proof of
ownership of the motor vehicle and pays all towing and storage fees normally
imposed by the municipality for towing and storing motor vehicles. If the motor
vehicle is a leased vehicle, it shall not be released to the lessee until the
lessee presents proof that that person is the lessee of the motor vehicle and
pays all towing and storage fees normally imposed by the municipality for
towing and storing motor vehicles.
         (c)   If a person is charged with a violation of division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section, it is an affirmative defense to the charge that
the person suffered an injury not more than 72 hours prior to the time the
person was issued the ticket or citation and that, because of the injury, the
person meets at least one of the criteria contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
      (2)    No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle in an area
that is commonly known as an access aisle, which area is marked by diagonal
stripes and is located immediately adjacent to an accessible parking location
provided under division (E) of this section or at an accessible clearly marked
parking location provided in or on a privately owned parking lot, parking
garage, or other parking area and designated in accordance with that division.
   (G)   When a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a
person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a removable windshield placard or accessible license plates, or when
a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a person with a
disability and is displaying a parking card or accessible license plates, the
motor vehicle is permitted to park for a period of two hours in excess of the
legal parking period permitted by local authorities, except where local
ordinances or police rules provide otherwise or where the vehicle is parked in
such a manner as to be clearly a traffic hazard.
   (H)   No owner of an office, facility, or parking garage where accessible
parking locations are required to be designated in accordance with division (E)
of this section shall fail to properly mark the accessible parking locations in
accordance with that division or fail to maintain the markings of the
accessible locations, including the erection and maintenance of the fixed or
movable signs.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a person or
organization to apply for a removable windshield placard or accessible license
plates if the parking card or accessible license plates issued to the person or
organization under prior law have not expired or been surrendered or revoked.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      ACCESSIBLE LICENSE PLATES and REMOVABLE WINDSHIELD PLACARD. Mean any
license plates, standard removable windshield placard, permanent removable
windshield placard, or temporary removable windshield placard issued under R.C.
§ 4503.41 or 4503.44, and also mean any substantially similar license plates or
removable windshield placard issued by a state, district, country, or
sovereignty.
      PERSON WITH A DISABILITY. Means any person who has lost the use of one or
both legs or one or both arms, who is blind, deaf, or unable to move without
the aid of crutches or a wheelchair, or whose mobility is restricted by a
permanent cardiovascular, pulmonary, or other disabling condition.
      PERSON WITH A DISABILITY THAT LIMITS OR IMPAIRS THE ABILITY TO WALK. Has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 4503.44.
   (K)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (A) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in
division (K)(2)(a) and (K)(2)(b) of this section. Except as otherwise provided
in division (K)(2)(a) of this section, an offender who violates division (F)(1)
(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section shall be fined not less than $250 nor more
than $500. An offender who violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section shall be fined not more than $100 if the offender, prior to sentencing,
proves either of the following to the satisfaction of the court:
            1.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a removable windshield placard that then was
valid or accessible license plates that then were valid but the offender or the
person neglected to display the placard or license plates as described in
division (F)(1)(a)1. of this section.
            2.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a parking card that then was valid or accessible
license plates that then were valid but the offender or the person neglected to
display the card or license plates as described in division (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section.
         (b)   In no case shall an offender who violates division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. be sentenced to any term of imprisonment.
         (c)   An arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section does not constitute a criminal record and need
not be reported by the person so arrested or convicted in response to any
inquiries contained in any application for employment, license, or other right
or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s appearance as a witness.
         (d)   The clerk of the court shall pay every fine collected under
divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of this section to the municipality. Except as
provided in division (K)(2) of this section, the municipality shall use the
fine moneys it receives under divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of this section to
pay the expenses it incurs in complying with the signage and notice
requirements contained in division (E) of this section. The municipality may
use up to 50% of each fine it receives under divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of
this section to pay the costs of educational, advocacy, support, and assistive
technology programs for persons with disabilities, and for public improvements
within the municipality that benefit or assist persons with disabilities, if
governmental agencies or nonprofit organizations offer the programs.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F)(2) of this section shall be fined not
less than $250 nor more than $500. In no case shall an offender who violates
division (F)(2) of this section be sentenced to any term of imprisonment. An
arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(2) of this section does
not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries contained in any application
for employment, license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection
with the person’s appearance as a witness.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (H) of this section shall be punished as
follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (K)(4) of this section,
the offender shall be issued a warning.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (H) of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to that division, the offender shall
not be issued a warning but shall be fined not more than $25 for each parking
location that is not properly marked or whose markings are not properly
maintained.
(R.C. § 4511.69)
Cross-reference:
   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates, see §
138.17
Statutory reference:
   Buildings, access for disabled persons, see R.C. § 3781.111
§ 76.06 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY IN VIOLATION OF POSTED PROHIBITION.
   (A)   If an owner of private property posts on the property in a conspicuous
manner a prohibition against parking on the property or conditions and
regulations under which parking is permitted, no person shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   Park a vehicle on the property without the owner’s consent;
      (2)   Park a vehicle on the property in violation of any condition or
regulation posted by the owner.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.681)
Cross-reference:
   Towing from private property, requirements, see §
95.01
§ 76.07 SELLING, WASHING OR REPAIRING VEHICLE UPON ROADWAY.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon any roadway for the
principal purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale; or
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.08 TRUCK LOADING ZONES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time, other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup and
loading of materials, in any place marked as a truck loading zone during hours
when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case shall
the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.09 BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   (A)   Bus stops and taxicab stands.
      (1)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle other than a bus in
a bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any such stop or
stand has been officially designated and appropriately posted, except that the
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of,
and while actually engaged in, loading or unloading passengers when such
stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about
to enter such zone, and then only for a period not to exceed three minutes, if
such stopping is not prohibited therein by posted signs.
      (2)   No operator of a bus shall stop, stand, or park such vehicle upon
any street or other public way at any place for the purpose of loading or
unloading passengers or their baggage other than at a bus stop so designated
and posted as such, except in case of an emergency.
      (3)   No operator of a bus shall fail to enter a bus stop on a street or
other public way in such a manner that the bus when stopped to load or unload
passengers or baggage is in a position with the right front wheel of such
vehicle not further than 18 inches from the curb and the bus approximately
parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular
traffic.
      (4)   No operator of a taxicab shall stand or park such vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place other than in a taxicab stand so
designated and posted as such. This provision shall not prevent the operator of
a taxicab from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or
parking provisions at any place for the purpose of, and while actually engaged
in, the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers.
      (5)   There is hereby established a taxi stand at 10 North Main Street.
   (B)   Standing or idling busses.
      (1)   Busses shall be prohibited from standing and/or idling within the
village, whether in the downtown section or otherwise, for a period in excess
of 15 minutes.
      (2)   Violation of this division (B) may result in the issuance of a
citation by the Police Department and summons into Mayor’s Court.
      (3)   Each violation of this division (B) may result in a fine of up to
$50 per occurrence.
      (4)   For the purpose of this division (B), the definition of BUS shall
be as defined in §
70.01.
      (5)   For the purpose of this division (B), the terms STANDING and IDLING
shall be as defined under R.C. Title 45 or the administrative regulations
adopted by the state’s Department of Transportation, which definitions are
expressly adopted herein.
(Ord. 92-129, passed 10-19-1992; Ord. 96-137, passed 8-19-1996) Penalty, see
70.99
§ 76.10 PARKING IN ALLEYS AND NARROW STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street, other
than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available
less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic, except that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or
unloading of passengers or when directed to by a police officer or traffic
control signal.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle within an alley except while actually loading and unloading, and
then only for a period not to exceed 30 minutes.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.11 REGISTERED OWNER PRIMA FACIE LIABLE FOR UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   In any hearing on a charge of illegally parking a motor vehicle, testimony
that a vehicle bearing a certain license plate was found unlawfully parked as
prohibited by the provisions of this Traffic Code, and further testimony that
the record of the Ohio Registrar of Motor Vehicles shows that the license plate
was issued to the defendant, shall be prima facie evidence that the vehicle
which was unlawfully parked, was so parked by the defendant. A certified
registration copy, showing such fact, from the Registrar shall be proof of such
ownership.
§ 76.12 WAIVER.
   (A)   Any person charged with a violation of any provision of this chapter
for which payment of a prescribed fine may be made, may pay such sum in the
manner prescribed on the issued traffic ticket.
   (B)   Such payment shall be deemed a plea of guilty, waiver of court
appearance and acknowledgment of conviction of the alleged offense and may be
accepted in full satisfaction of the prescribed penalty for such alleged
violation.
   (C)   Payment of the prescribed fine need not be accepted when laws
prescribe that a certain number of such offenses shall require court
appearance.
§ 76.13 PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PARKING LOT. An outdoor space, plot, place, lot, parcel, yard, or
enclosure, or any portion thereof, where more than two motor vehicles may be
parked, stored, serviced, housed, or kept. The term includes, but is not
limited to, the driving and parking areas of schools, drive-in restaurants,
drive-in banks, shopping centers, gasoline service stations, grocery parking
lots, factory parking lots, and all other parking lots used in connection with
the operation of a business. The term also includes village owned or operated
off-street parking lots.
      PUBLIC PORTIONS OF A PARKING LOT. The parking area and the ingress and
egress to the parking lot area designated by the parking lot owner or his or
her agent for off-street parking of automobiles or other vehicles, and
driveways, sidewalks, malls, arcades, service areas, and entranceways into
stores and buildings.
      SHOPPING CENTER. A combination of retail stores and services contained
within one or more buildings which is located on one or more parcels of land
united to form a general shopping center site, on which there is located a
public area for the nonexclusive use of members of the general public and
occupants, visitors, and customers of such retail stores and services.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. No person shall:
      (1)   Race the motor of a motor vehicle, needlessly bring a motor vehicle
to a sudden start or stop, or blow the horn of a motor vehicle so as to create
a nuisance or a disturbance or to annoy or endanger any person or other vehicle
on the public portions of the parking lot;
      (2)   Enter, walk upon, or drive on the public portions of a parking lot
without the consent of the owner or operator of the parking lot or the agent of
either when the place of business on or adjacent to the parking lot is closed
to the public;
      (3)   Enter, walk on, or drive on school property without the consent of
the administration or custodian of such property or agent of either when school
is closed for summer vacation, more than one hour before or one hour after
school is in session, or more than one-half hour before or after an approved
extracurricular activity; or
      (4)   Assemble or congregate on the public portion of a parking lot for
the purpose of lingering or loitering in any manner.
(Ord. 476, passed 12-1-1975) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.14 SNOW EMERGENCY.
   The Safety Director is hereby authorized to declare a snow emergency during
periods of heavy snowfall. During such a snow emergency, no person shall park a
vehicle on those village streets where “No Parking” signs have been posted
pursuant to the direction of the Safety Director. Vehicles parked in violation
of such signs may be towed away, and any towing charge incurred shall be
charged to the registered owner of such vehicle. Such remedy shall be in
addition to the penalty provided in §
70.99.
(Ord. 521, passed 4-18-1978) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.15 OUTDOOR FRONT YARD OR ON-STREET PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT.
   Outdoor front yard or on-street parking in a residential zoning district or
planned district for residential uses shall be subject to the following:
   (A)   Only self-propelled motor vehicles manufactured for normal everyday
transportation use, licensed for operational use on public street, and length
as originally manufactured, may be parked on the street or on the improved
driveway surface. Boats, trailers, and recreational vehicles are permitted to
be parked in driveways with the following stipulations: Boats, trailers, and
recreational vehicles must be licensed and in good running condition. Boats,
trailers, and recreational vehicles must not be stored on blocks. Trailers and
recreational vehicles must not have flat tires. Boats, trailers, or
recreational vehicles must not extend within the pedestrian sidewalk. Penalties
will apply if said objects fail to comply with this Code.
   (B)   Tractor trucks, semi-trucks and their trailers are not permitted.
   (C)   Front yard or on-street parking or storage of all other types of
vehicles or equipment not specifically permitted by this section shall be
prohibited.
   (D)   Recreational vehicles not longer than the original manufactured length
of 45 feet, by special permission available from the Police Department, will be
allowed to legally park in a residential zoning district. Such permission, at
no cost to the resident, must be obtained by the resident within 24 hours of
arrival. This permission shall be for three days and will only be issued to the
same residential property 12 times a calendar year.
   (E)   No vehicle shall be used for living, sleeping, housekeeping, or
commercial purposes when parked or stored on the street, or on a residential
lot, or in any location not approved for such use.
   (F)   This section shall not be construed to regulate commerce in any manner
repugnant to state or federal law.
(Ord. 97-148, passed 8-18-1997; Ord. 2018-037, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.16 BLOCKING SIDEWALK WITH VEHICLE.
   (A)   It shall be illegal to park a vehicle in a private driveway in such a
manner so as to block the public sidewalk. The village’s Police Department is
hereby authorized to issue a parking citation for illegal parking if a vehicle
is parked in such a manner so as to block the sidewalk which serves as the
public method of pedestrian travel.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a violation of blocking
sidewalks with a vehicle, a minor misdemeanor, punishable pursuant to §
70.99.
CHAPTER 77: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Section
   
I.   One-way streets
   
II.   Stop intersections
   
III.   Through traffic prohibited
   
IV.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   Traffic flow of the following streets shall be changed to one-way
traffic:
 
One-Way Streets                                            Ord. No. Date Passed
High Street from Main Street to South Third Street         95-137   6-19-1995
First alley west of Main Street, from High Street to Miami 95-138   6-19-1995
Street
 
   (B)   Violations of this schedule shall be prosecuted and punished as
provided in §
72.009.
(Ord. 95-137, passed 6-19-1995; Ord. 95-138, passed 6-19-1995)
SCHEDULE II. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The following intersections shall be designated as stop intersections:
 
Stop Intersection                                          Ord. No. Date Passed
Stop sign to be placed on Adamsmoor Drive at the southeast
corner of the intersection of Adamsmoor Drive and Camp     96-154   9-16-1996
Creek Road
Stop sign shall be placed at Camp Creek Road at Justin     99-119   4-19-1999
Ridge Way
The intersection of Main Street and Franklin Street shall  2000-023 5-1-2000
be designated a four-way stop intersection
 
   (B)   Violations of this schedule shall be prosecuted and punished as
provided in §
72.032.
(Ord. 96-154, passed 9-16-1996; Ord. 99-119, passed 4-19-1999; Ord. 2000-023,
passed 5-1-2000)
SCHEDULE III. THROUGH TRAFFIC PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Through traffic shall be prohibited on the following streets:
 
Through Traffic Prohibited                                 Ord. No. Date Passed
Adamsmoor Drive from Waterford Place Block C Subdivision   96-146   9-16-1996
to Thatcher Hill Subdivision
During the hours of 7:00 - 9:00 a.m. and 2:00 - 4:00 p.m.,
traffic exiting the Wayne Local Schools at the
intersection of School Drive and Dayton Road, shall be     2005-028 7-18-2005
required to turn right, except school busses which shall
be allowed to proceed in any direction
 
   (B)   The owner and operator of any vehicle found violating this schedule
shall be issued a citation, prosecuted and punished as provided in §
70.10 or other appropriate ordinance of the village.
(Ord. 96-146, passed 9-16-1996; Ord. 2005-028, passed 7-18-2005)
SCHEDULE IV. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The following speed limits are hereby established:
 
Street                                        Speed Limit Ord. No. Date Passed
Any additional streets brought into the
village by way of annexation unless otherwise 25 mph      97-165   1-5-1998
designated by ordinance
Franklin Road                                 25 mph      97-165   1-5-1998
 
   (B)   Nothing contained in this schedule shall affect the speed limits in
any school zones throughout the village, and it is not the intent of this
schedule to increase the speed limit in school zones during applicable hours.
   (C)   Violations of this schedule shall be prosecuted and punished as
provided in §
73.10.
(Ord. 97-165, passed 1-5-1998)
CHAPTER 78: PARKING SCHEDULES
Section
   
I.   No parking
   
II.   Disabled parking
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING.
   (A)   Parking is hereby prohibited on the following streets or portions
thereof:
No Parking Ord. No. Date Passed
No Parking                                                 Ord. No. Date Passed
Camp Creek Road, as further designated in the exhibit      96-147   9-3-1996
attached to the ordinance
Chapman Street (north side)                                94-155   12-19-1994
Chapman Street (north side) between Fifth and Sixth        2003-012 4-21-2003
Streets
Edwards Road from High Street south to State Route 73      99-146   - -
Franklin Road (north side) from Lytle Road running west to 96-176   11-18-1996
the corporation line
Lytle Road north of Franklin Road                          95-156   9-5-1995
North Street (south side) from Main Street to U.S. Route   99-128   6-21-1999
42
North Street (north side) from Marvin Lane to State Route  92-104   4-6-1992
42
Preston Drive, as further designated in the exhibit        96-148   9-3-1996
attached to the ordinance
355 South Main Street                                      95-139   6-19-1995
 
   (B)   The Police Department, in conjunction with the Street Maintenance
Department, is hereby instructed to install the appropriate signage providing
for “No Parking” as herein designated.
   (C)   The Police Department is hereby authorized to enforce such “No
Parking” prohibition in accordance with the applicable sections of this code of
ordinances.
   (D)   The owner and/or operator of any vehicle found parking in violation of
this schedule shall be issued a citation in conformance with this code and
fined in accordance with this code.
(Ord. 92-104, passed 4-6-1992; Ord. 94-155, passed 12-19-1994; Ord. 95-139,
passed 6-19-1995; Ord. 95-156, passed 9-5-1995; Ord. 96-147, passed 9-3-1996;
Ord. 96-148, passed 9-3-1996; Ord. 96-176, passed 11-18-1996; Ord. 99-128,
passed 6-21-1999; Ord. 99-146, passed - -; Ord. 2000-13, passed 2-22-2000; Ord.
2003-012, passed 4-21-2003)
SCHEDULE II. DISABLED PARKING.
   (A)   The following are hereby designated as disabled-only parking spaces:
 
Handicapped-Only Parking                                 Ord. No. Date Passed
Two spaces at 297 North Street, Waynesville United       95-182   11-20-1995
Methodist Church
One space on the public parking area at 230 South Street 99-133   7-19-1999
 
   (B)   Violations of this schedule shall be prosecuted and punished as
provided in §
76.05.
(Ord. 95-182, passed 11-20-1995; Ord. 99-133, passed 7-19-1999)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIREWORKS, EXPLOSIVES, FIRE PREVENTION
      
92.   INTOXICATING LIQUORS
      
93.   NUISANCES
      
94.   RIGHT-OF-WAY REGULATIONS; STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
95.   TREES AND SHRUBS
      
96.   UNCLAIMED AND ABANDONED VEHICLES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Animals Running at Large
   
90.01   Dogs or other animals running at large; nuisance, dangerous, or vicious
dogs; hearings
   
90.02   Confining animal found at large; publication of notice; lien
   
90.03   Unavoidable escapes
   
90.04   Fees
   
90.05   Rabies quarantine orders of Mayor
   
90.06   Interfering with enforcement of quarantine orders
   
90.07   Dogs may be killed for certain acts
Offenses Relating to Animals
   
90.20   Abandoning animals
   
90.21   Injuring animals
   
90.22   Poisoning animals
   
90.23   Cruelty to animals; cruelty to companion animals
   
90.24   Animal fights
   
90.25   Trapshooting
   
90.26   Loud dog
   
90.27   Dog tags
   
90.28   Nuisance, dangerous, and vicious dog defined; transfer of ownership
certificate; form stating dog’s prior behavior
   
90.29   Failure to register dog or dog kennel
   
90.30   Hindering the capture of unregistered dog
   
90.31   Unlawful tag
   
90.32   Assistance dog with blind, deaf, or hearing impaired person, or person
with a mobility impairment, or trainer
   
90.33   Retail sale and transportation of dogs
   
90.34   Coloring rabbits or baby poultry; regulation of sale and display
   
90.35   Jacklighting prohibited
   
90.36   Restrictions on dog ownership for certain convicted felons
   
90.37   Sexual conduct with an animal
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Assaulting police dog or horse, or assistance dog, see §
136.15
   Dead animals, improper disposal as nuisance, see §
93.23
   Nuisances, see §
93.04
Statutory reference:
   Hunting and fishing regulations, see R.C. Chapter 1533
   Law enforcement canine registration, see R.C. § 955.012
   Nuisance wild animal trapping, see O.A.C. § 1501:31-15-03
   Possession of dangerous wild animals and restricted snakes, requirements and
licensing, see R.C. Chapter 935
   Rabies: report of dog bite, confinement of animal, report of suspected rabid
animal, see O.A.C. §§ 3701-3-28 et seq.
ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE
§ 90.01 DOGS OR OTHER ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE; NUISANCE, DANGEROUS, OR VICIOUS
DOGS; HEARINGS.
   (A)   Animals running at large.
      (1)   No person, who is the owner or keeper of horses, mules, cattle,
bison, sheep, goats, swine, llamas, alpacas, or poultry, shall permit them to
run at large in the public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon
unenclosed land, or cause the animals to be herded, kept, or detained for the
purpose of grazing on premises other than those owned or lawfully occupied by
the owner or keeper of the animals.
(R.C. § 951.02)
      (2)   Whoever recklessly violates division (A)(1) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 951.99)
      (3)   The owner or keeper of an animal described in division (A)(1) of
this section who negligently permits it to run at large in violation of
division (A)(1) of this section is liable for all damages resulting from
injury, death, or loss to person or property caused by the animal in any of the
places specified in division (A)(1) of this section or upon the premises of
another without reference to the fence that may enclose the premises.
      (4)   The running at large of any animal specified in division (A)(1) of
this section in or upon any of the places specified in division (A)(1) of this
section is prima facie evidence in a civil action for damages under division
(A)(3) of this section that the owner or keeper of the animal negligently
permitted the animal to run at large in violation of division (A)(1) of this
section.
(R.C. § 951.10)
   (B)   Dogs running at large; dangerous dogs; debarked or surgically silenced
dangerous dogs.
      (1)   As used in this division (B), DANGEROUS DOG has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 955.11.
      (2)   No owner, keeper, or harborer of any female dog shall permit it to
go beyond the premises of the owner, keeper, or harborer at any time the dog is
in heat unless the dog is properly in leash.
      (3)   Except when a dog is lawfully engaged in hunting and accompanied by
the owner, keeper, harborer, or handler of the dog, no owner, keeper, or
harborer of any dog shall fail at any time to do either of the following:
         (a)   Keep the dog physically confined or restrained upon the premises
of the owner, keeper, or harborer by a leash, tether, adequate fence,
supervision, or secure enclosure to prevent escape; or
         (b)   Keep the dog under the reasonable control of some person.
      (4)   Except when a dangerous dog is lawfully engaged in hunting or
training for the purpose of hunting and is accompanied by the owner, keeper,
harborer, or handler of the dog, no owner, keeper, or harborer of a dangerous
dog shall fail to do either of the following:
         (a)   While the dog is on the premises of the owner, keeper, or
harborer, securely confine it at all times in a locked pen that has a top,
locked fenced yard, or other locked enclosure that has a top; or
         (b)   While the dog is off the premises of the owner, keeper, or
harborer, keep that dog on a chain-link leash or tether that is not more than
six feet in length and additionally do at least one of the following: keep the
dog in a locked pen that has a top, locked fenced yard, or other locked
enclosure that has a top; have the leash or tether controlled by a person who
is of suitable age and discretion or securely attach, tie, or affix the leash
or tether to the ground or a stationary object or fixture so that the dog is
adequately restrained and station a person in close enough proximity to that
dog so as to prevent it from causing injury to any person; or muzzle that dog.
      (5)   No person who has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or
more violations of division (B)(3) of this section involving the same dog and
no owner, keeper, or harborer of a dangerous dog shall fail to do the
following:
         (a)   Obtain liability insurance with an insurer authorized to write
liability insurance in this state providing coverage in each occurrence because
of damage or bodily injury to or death of a person caused by the dangerous dog,
if so ordered by a court, and provide proof of that liability insurance upon
request to any law enforcement officer, county dog warden, or public health
official charged with enforcing this section;
         (b)   Obtain a dangerous dog registration certificate from the County
Auditor pursuant to division (B)(9) of this section, affix a tag that
identifies the dog as a dangerous dog to the dog’s collar, and ensure that the
dog wears the collar and tag at all times;
         (c)   Notify the local dog warden immediately if any of the following
occurs:
            1.   The dog is loose or unconfined;
            2.   The dog bites a person, unless the dog is on the property of
the owner of the dog, and the person who is bitten is unlawfully trespassing or
committing a criminal act within the boundaries of that property; or
            3.   The dog attacks another animal while the dog is off the
property of the owner of the dog.
         (d)   If the dog is sold, given to another person, or dies, notify the
County Auditor within ten days of the sale, transfer, or death.
      (6)   No person shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Debark or surgically silence a dog that the person knows or has
reason to believe is a dangerous dog;
         (b)   Possess a dangerous dog if the person knows or has reason to
believe that the dog has been debarked or surgically silenced; or
         (c)   Falsely attest on a waiver form provided by the veterinarian
under division (B)(7) of this section that the person’s dog is not a dangerous
dog or otherwise provide false information on that written waiver form.
      (7)   Before a veterinarian debarks or surgically silences a dog, the
veterinarian may give the owner of the dog a written waiver form that attests
that the dog is not a dangerous dog. The written waiver form shall include all
of the following:
         (a)   The veterinarian’s license number and current business address;
         (b)   The number of the license of the dog if the dog is licensed;
         (c)   A reasonable description of the age, coloring, and gender of the
dog as well as any notable markings on the dog;
         (d)   The signature of the owner of the dog attesting that the owner’s
dog is not a dangerous dog; and
         (e)   A statement that R.C. § 955.22(F) prohibits any person from
doing any of the following:
            1.   Debarking or surgically silencing a dog that the person knows
or has reason to believe is a dangerous dog;
            2.   Possessing a dangerous dog if the person knows or has reason
to believe that the dog has been debarked or surgically silenced; or
            3.   Falsely attesting on a waiver form provided by the
veterinarian under R.C. § 955.22(G) that the person’s dog is not a dangerous
dog or otherwise provide false information on that written waiver form.
      (8)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of division
(B)(6) of this section that the veterinarian who is charged with the violation
obtained, prior to debarking or surgically silencing the dog, a written waiver
form that complies with division (B)(7) of this section and that attests that
the dog is not a dangerous dog.
      (9)   (a)   The County Auditor shall issue a dangerous dog registration
certificate to a person who is the owner of a dog, who is 18 years of age or
older, and who provides the following to the County Auditor:
            1.   A fee of $50;
            2.   The person’s address, phone number, and other appropriate
means for the local dog warden or County Auditor to contact the person; and
            3.   With respect to the person and the dog for which the
registration is sought, all of the following:
               a.   Either satisfactory evidence of the dog’s current rabies
vaccination or a statement from a licensed veterinarian that a rabies
vaccination is medically contraindicated for the dog;
               b.    Either satisfactory evidence of the fact that the dog has
been neutered or spayed or a statement from a licensed veterinarian that
neutering or spaying of the dog is medically contraindicated;
               c.   Satisfactory evidence of the fact that the person has
posted and will continue to post clearly visible signs at the person’s
residence warning both minors and adults of the presence of a dangerous dog on
the property; and
               d.   Satisfactory evidence of the fact that the dog has been
permanently identified by means of a microchip and the dog’s microchip number.
         (b)   Upon the issuance of a dangerous dog registration certificate to
the owner of a dog, the County Auditor shall provide the owner with a uniformly
designed tag that identifies the animal as a dangerous dog. The owner shall
renew the certificate annually for the same fee and in the same manner as the
initial certificate was obtained. If a certificate holder relocates to a new
county, the certificate holder shall follow the procedure in division (B)(9)
(c)2. of this section and, upon the expiration of the certificate issued in the
original county, shall renew the certificate in the new county.
         (c)   1.   If the owner of a dangerous dog for whom a registration
certificate has previously been obtained relocates to a new address within the
same county, the owner shall provide notice of the new address to the County
Auditor within ten days of relocating to the new address.
            2.   If the owner of a dangerous dog for whom a registration
certificate has previously been obtained relocates to a new address within
another county, the owner shall do both of the following within ten days of
relocating to the new address:
               a.   Provide written notice of the new address and a copy of the
original dangerous dog registration certificate to the County Auditor of the
new county; and
               b.   Provide written notice of the new address to the County
Auditor of the county where the owner previously resided.
         (d)   The owner of a dangerous dog shall present the dangerous dog
registration certificate upon being requested to do so by any law enforcement
officer, dog warden, or public health official charged with enforcing this
section.
(R.C. § 955.22)
   (C)   Hearing.
      (1)   The municipal court or county court that has territorial
jurisdiction over the residence of the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog
shall conduct any hearing concerning the designation of the dog as a nuisance
dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog.
      (2)   If a person who is authorized to enforce this chapter has
reasonable cause to believe that a dog in the person’s jurisdiction is a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog, the person shall notify the owner,
keeper, or harborer of that dog, by certified mail or in person, of both of the
following:
         (a)   That the person has designated the dog a nuisance dog, dangerous
dog, or vicious dog, as applicable; and
         (b)   That the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog may request a
hearing regarding the designation in accordance with this division (C). The
notice shall include instructions for filing a request for a hearing in the
county in which the dog’s owner, keeper, or harborer resides.
      (3)   If the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog disagrees with the
designation of the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog, as
applicable, the owner, keeper, or harborer, not later than ten days after
receiving notification of the designation, may request a hearing regarding the
determination. The request for a hearing shall be in writing and shall be filed
with the municipal court or county court that has territorial jurisdiction over
the residence of the dog’s owner, keeper, or harborer. At the hearing, the
person who designated the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog
has the burden of proving, by clear and convincing evidence, that the dog is a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog. The owner, keeper, or harborer of
the dog or the person who designated the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog,
or vicious dog may appeal the court’s final determination as in any other case
filed in that court.
      (4)   A court, upon motion of an owner, keeper, or harborer or an
attorney representing the owner, keeper, or harborer, may order that the dog
designated as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog be held in the
possession of the owner, keeper, or harborer until the court makes a final
determination under this section or during the pendency of an appeal, as
applicable. Until the court makes a final determination and during the pendency
of any appeal, the dog shall be confined or restrained in accordance with the
provisions of division (B)(4) that apply to dangerous dogs regardless of
whether the dog has been designated as a vicious dog or a nuisance dog rather
than a dangerous dog. The owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog shall not be
required to comply with any other requirements established in this Code or the
Ohio Revised Code that concern a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog,
as applicable, until the court makes a final determination and during the
pendency of any appeal.
      (5)   If a dog is finally determined under this division (C), or on
appeal as described in this division (C), to be a vicious dog, divisions (B)(4)
to (B)(9) of this section apply with respect to the dog and the owner, keeper,
or harborer of the dog as if the dog were a dangerous dog, and §
90.36 applies with respect to the dog as if it were a dangerous dog, and the
court shall issue an order that specifies that those provisions apply with
respect to the dog and the owner, keeper, or harborer in that manner. As part
of the order, the court shall require the owner, keeper, or harborer to obtain
the liability insurance required under division (B)(5)(a) in this section in an
amount described in division (D)(4)(b) of this section.
      (6)   As used in this division (C), NUISANCE DOG, DANGEROUS DOG, and
VICIOUS DOG have the same meanings as in R.C. § 955.11.
(R.C. § 955.222)
   (D)   Penalty.
      (1)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section or commits a
violation of division (B)(3) of this section that involves a dog that is not a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog shall be fined not less than $25 or
more than $100 on a first offense, and on each subsequent offense shall be
fined not less than $75 or more than $250 and may be imprisoned for not more
than 30 days.
         (b)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in division (D)(1)(a) of
this section, if the offender is guilty of a violation of division (B)(2) of
this section or a violation of division (B)(3) of this section that involves a
dog that is not a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog, the court may
order the offender to personally supervise the dog that the offender owns,
keeps, or harbors, to cause that dog to complete dog obedience training, or to
do both.
(R.C. § 955.99(E))
      (2)   (a)   Whoever commits a violation of division (B)(3) of this
section that involves a nuisance dog is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on the
first offense and of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on each subsequent
offense involving the same dog. Upon a person being convicted of or pleading
guilty to a third violation of division (B)(3) of this section involving the
same dog, the court shall require the offender to register the involved dog as
a dangerous dog.
         (b)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, if a violation of division (B)(3) of this section involves a
nuisance dog, the court may order the offender to personally supervise the
nuisance dog that the offender owns, keeps, or harbors, to cause that dog to
complete dog obedience training, or to do both.
(R.C. § 955.99(F))
      (3)   Whoever commits a violation of division (B)(3) of this section that
involves a dangerous dog, or a violation of division (B)(4) of this section, is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and of a
misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent offense. Additionally, the
court may order the offender to personally supervise the dangerous dog that the
offender owns, keeps, or harbors, to cause that dog to complete dog obedience
training, or to do both, and the court may order the offender to obtain
liability insurance pursuant to division (B)(5) of this section. The court, in
the alternative, may order the dangerous dog to be humanely destroyed by a
licensed veterinarian, the county dog warden, or the county humane society at
the owner’s expense. With respect to a violation of division (B)(3) of this
section that involves a dangerous dog, until the court makes a final
determination and during the pendency of any appeal of a violation of that
division and at the discretion of the dog warden, the dog shall be confined or
restrained in accordance with division (B)(4) of this section or at the county
dog pound at the owner’s expense.
(R.C. § 955.99(G))
      (4)   (a)   Whoever commits a violation of division (B)(3) of this
section that involves a vicious dog is guilty of one of the following:
            1.   A felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the
dog kills or seriously injures a person. Additionally, the court shall order
that the vicious dog be humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the
county dog warden, or the county humane society at the owner’s expense; or
            2.   A misdemeanor of the first degree if the dog causes serious
injury to a person. Additionally, the court may order the vicious dog to be
humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the county dog warden, or the
county humane society at the owner’s expense.
         (b)   If the court does not order the vicious dog to be destroyed
under division (D)(4)(a)2. of this section, the court shall issue an order that
specifies that divisions (B)(4) to (B)(9) of this section apply with respect to
the dog and the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog as if the dog were a
dangerous dog and that §
90.36 applies with respect to the dog as if it were a dangerous dog. As part of
the order, the court shall order the offender to obtain the liability insurance
required under division (B)(5)(a) of this section in an amount, exclusive of
interest and costs, that equals or exceeds $100,000. Until the court makes a
final determination and during the pendency of any appeal of a violation of
division (B)(3) of this section and at the discretion of the dog warden, the
dog shall be confined or restrained in accordance with the provisions described
in division (B)(4) of this section or at the county dog pound at the owner’s
expense.
(R.C. § 955.99(H))
      (5)   Whoever violates division (B)(5)(b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(J))
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(6)(a), (B)(6)(b), or (B)(6)(c) of
this section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law. Additionally, the court shall order that the dog involved in the violation
be humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the county dog warden, or the
county humane society. Until the court makes a final determination and during
the pendency of any appeal of a violation of division (B)(6)(a), (B)(6)(b), or
(B)(6)(c) of this section, and at the discretion of the dog warden, the dog
shall be confined or restrained in accordance with the provisions of division
(B)(4) of this section or at the county dog pound at the owner’s expense.
(R.C. § 955.99(L))
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(5)(a), (B)(5)(c), or (B)(5)(d) of
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(M))
      (8)   Whoever violates division (B)(9)(d) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(N))
      (9)   (a)   If a dog is confined at the county dog pound pursuant to
division (D)(3), (D)(4), or (D)(6) of this section, the county dog warden shall
give written notice of the confinement to the owner of the dog. If the county
dog warden is unable to give the notice to the owner of the dog, the county dog
warden shall post the notice on the door of the residence of the owner of the
dog or in another conspicuous place on the premises at which the dog was
seized. The notice shall include a statement that a security in the amount of
$100 is due to the county dog warden within ten days to secure payment of all
reasonable expenses, including medical care and boarding of the dog for 60
days, expected to be incurred by the county dog pound in caring for the dog
pending the determination. The county dog warden may draw from the security any
actual costs incurred in caring for the dog.
         (b)   If the person ordered to post security under division (D)(9)(a)
of this section does not do so within ten days of the confinement of the
animal, the dog is forfeited, and the county dog warden may determine the
disposition of the dog unless the court issues an order that specifies
otherwise.
         (c)   Not more than ten days after the court makes a final
determination under division (D)(3), (D)(4), or (D)(6) of this section, the
county dog warden shall provide the owner of the dog with the actual cost of
the confinement of the dog. If the county dog warden finds that the security
provided under division (D)(9)(a) of this section is less than the actual cost
of confinement of the dog, the owner shall remit the difference between the
security provided and the actual cost to the county dog warden within 30 days
after the court’s determination. If the county dog warden finds that the
security provided under division (D)(9)(a) of this section is greater than that
actual cost, the county dog warden shall remit the difference between the
security provided and the actual cost to the owner within 30 days after the
court’s determination.
(R.C. § 955.99(P))
      (10)   As used in this division (D), NUISANCE DOG, DANGEROUS DOG, and
VICIOUS DOG have the same meanings as in R.C. § 955.11.
(R.C. § 955.99(Q))
Statutory reference:
   Power of municipality to regulate animals running at large, see R.C. §§
715.23 and 955.221
§ 90.02 CONFINING ANIMAL FOUND AT LARGE; PUBLICATION OF NOTICE; LIEN.
   A person finding an animal at large in violation of §
90.01(A)(1) may, and a law enforcement officer of the municipality on view or
information shall, take and confine that animal, promptly giving notice of the
taking and confining of the animal to the owner or keeper, if known, and if not
known, by publishing a notice describing the animal once in a newspaper of
general circulation in the county or municipality where the animal was found.
If the owner or keeper does not appear and claim the animal and pay the
compensation prescribed in §
90.04 for so taking, advertising, and keeping it within ten days from the date
of the notice, that person or the county shall have a lien for that
compensation and the animal may be sold at public auction as provided in R.C. §
1311.49. The residue of the proceeds of sale shall be paid and deposited by the
Treasurer in the General Funds of the county.
(R.C. § 951.11)
§ 90.03 UNAVOIDABLE ESCAPES.
   If it is proven that an animal running at large in violation of §
90.01(A)(1) escaped from its owner or keeper without the owner’s or keeper’s
knowledge or fault, the animal shall be returned to its owner or keeper upon
payment of the compensation prescribed in §
90.04 for its taking, advertising, and keeping.
(R.C. § 951.12)
§ 90.04 FEES.
   (A)   The person or municipality whose law enforcement officer takes an
animal running at large in violation of §
90.01(A)(1) is entitled to receive from the owner or keeper of the animal the
following compensation:
      (1)   For taking and advertising each animal: $5; and
      (2)   Reasonable expenses actually incurred for keeping each animal.
   (B)   Compensation for taking, advertising, and keeping a single herd or
flock shall not exceed $50 when the flock or herd belongs to one person.
(R.C. § 951.13)
§ 90.05 RABIES QUARANTINE ORDERS OF MAYOR.
   (A)   Whenever, in the judgment of the Mayor or his or her designee, rabies
is prevalent, he or she shall declare a quarantine of all dogs in the
municipality or a part thereof. During the quarantine, the owner, keeper, or
harborer of any dog shall keep it confined on the premises of the owner,
keeper, or harborer or in a pound, kennel, or other suitable place, at the
expense of the owner, keeper, or harborer, except that a dog may be permitted
to leave the premises of its owner, keeper, or harborer if it is under leash or
under the control of a responsible person. The quarantine order shall be
considered an emergency and need not be published.
   (B)   When the quarantine has been declared, the Mayor or his or her
designee may require the vaccination for rabies of all dogs within the
municipality or part thereof.
(R.C. § 955.26)
   (C)   No person shall violate a rabies quarantine order issued under this
section or R.C. § 955.26.
(R.C. § 955.39)
   (D)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor for a first offense; for each subsequent offense such person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(C))
§ 90.06 INTERFERING WITH ENFORCEMENT OF QUARANTINE ORDERS.
   (A)   No person shall hinder, obstruct, resist, or interfere with any
enforcing officer while engaged in enforcing an order issued under §
90.05.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 DOGS MAY BE KILLED FOR CERTAIN ACTS.
   Subject to R.C. § 955.261(A)(2) and (A)(3), a dog that is chasing or
approaching in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack that attempts
to bite or otherwise endanger, or that kills or injures a person, or a dog that
chases, threatens, harasses, injures, or kills livestock, poultry, other
domestic animal, or other animal that is the property of another person, except
a cat or another dog, can be killed at the time of that chasing, threatening,
harassment, approaching, attempt, killing, or injury. If, in attempting to kill
such a dog, a person wounds it, the person is not liable to prosecution under
the criminal laws or ordinances that punish cruelty to animals. Nothing in this
section precludes a law enforcement officer from killing a dog that attacks a
police dog as defined in R.C. § 2921.321.
(R.C. § 955.28(A))
OFFENSES RELATING TO ANIMALS
§ 90.20 ABANDONING ANIMALS.
   (A)   No owner or keeper of a dog, cat, or other domestic animal shall
abandon the animal.
(R.C. § 959.01)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
first degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 959.99(E)(3))
§ 90.21 INJURING ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously, or willfully and without the consent of
the owner, kill or injure a dog, cat, or any other domestic animal that is the
property of another. This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian
acting in an official capacity.
(R.C. § 959.02)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
If the value of the animal killed or the injury done amounts to $300 or more,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 959.99(B))
   (C)   This section does not apply to a person killing or injuring an animal
or attempting to do so while endeavoring to prevent it from trespassing upon
his or her enclosure, or while it is so trespassing, or while driving it away
from his or her premises; provided within 15 days thereafter, payment is made
for damages done to such animal by killing or injuring, less the actual amount
of damage done by such animal while so trespassing, or a sufficient sum of
money is deposited with the nearest judge of a county court or judge of a
municipal court having jurisdiction within such time to cover the damages. The
deposit shall remain in the custody of such judge until there is a
determination of the damage resulting from such killing or injury and from the
trespass. The judge and his or her bondsmen shall be responsible for the
safekeeping of such money and for the payment thereof as for money collected
upon a judgment.
(R.C. § 959.04)
§ 90.22 POISONING ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously, or willfully and without the consent of
the owner, administer poison, except a licensed veterinarian acting in such
capacity, to a dog, cat, or any other domestic animal that is the property of
another; and no person shall, willfully and without the consent of the owner,
place any poisoned food where it may be easily found and eaten by any such
animal, either upon his or her own lands or the lands of another.
(R.C. § 959.03)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 959.99(C))
   (C)   This section does not apply to a person killing or injuring an animal
or attempting to do so while endeavoring to prevent it from trespassing upon
his or her enclosure, or while it is so trespassing, or while driving it away
from his or her premises; provided that within 15 days thereafter, payment is
made for damages done to such animal by killing or injuring, less the actual
amount of damage done by such animal while so trespassing, or a sufficient sum
of money is deposited with the nearest judge of a county court or judge of a
municipal court having jurisdiction within such time to cover the damages. The
deposit shall remain in the custody of such judge until there is a
determination of the damage resulting from such killing or injury and from the
trespass. The judge and his or her bondsmen shall be responsible for the
safekeeping of such money and for the payment thereof as for money collected
upon a judgment.
(R.C. § 959.04)
§ 90.23 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS; CRUELTY TO COMPANION ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Torture an animal, deprive one of necessary sustenance,
unnecessarily or cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill, or impound or
confine an animal without supplying it during the confinement with a sufficient
quantity of good wholesome food and water;
      (2)   Impound or confine an animal without affording it, during the
confinement, access to shelter from wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct
sunlight, if it can reasonably be expected that the animal would otherwise
become sick or in some other way suffer. This division does not apply to
animals impounded or confined prior to slaughter. For the purpose of this
section, SHELTER means an artificial enclosure, windbreak, sunshade, or natural
windbreak or sunshade that is developed from the earth’s contour, tree
development, or vegetation;
      (3)   Carry or convey an animal in a cruel or inhuman manner;
      (4)   Keep animals other than cattle, poultry or fowl, swine, sheep, or
goats in an enclosure without wholesome exercise and change of air, nor feed
cows on food that produces impure or unwholesome milk; or
      (5)   Detain livestock in railroad cars or compartments longer than 28
hours after they are so placed without supplying them with necessary food,
water, and attention, nor permit the stock to be so crowded as to overlie,
crush, wound, or kill each other.
   (B)   Upon the written request of the owner or person in custody of any
particular shipment of livestock, which written request shall be separate and
apart from any printed bill of lading or other railroad form, the length of
time in which the livestock may be detained in any cars or compartment without
food, water, and attention may be extended to 36 hours without penalty
therefor. Division (A) of this section does not prevent the dehorning of
cattle.
   (C)   All fines collected for violations of division (A) of this section
shall be paid to the society or association for the prevention of cruelty to
animals, if there is one in the municipality; otherwise, all fines shall be
paid to the General Fund.
(R.C. § 959.13)
   (D)   Cruelty to companion animals.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         ANIMAL RESCUE FOR DOGS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 956.01.
         BOARDING KENNEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 956.01.
         CAPTIVE WHITE-TAILED DEER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
         COMPANION ANIMAL. Means any animal that is kept inside a residential
dwelling and any dog or cat regardless of where it is kept, including a pet
store as defined in R.C. § 956.01. The term does not include livestock or any
wild animal.
         CRUELTY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1717.01.
         DOG KENNEL. Means an animal rescue for dogs, a boarding kennel, or a
training kennel.
         FEDERAL ANIMAL WELFARE ACT. The “Laboratory Animal Act of 1966”, Pub.
L. No. 89-544, 80 Stat. 350 (1966), 7 U.S.C. §§ 2131 et seq., as amended by the
“Animal Welfare Act of 1970”, Pub. L. No. 91-579, 84 Stat. 1560 (1970), the
“Animal Welfare Act Amendments of 1976”, Pub. L. No. 94-279, 90 Stat. 417
(1976), and the “Food Security Act of 1985”, Pub. L. No. 99-198, 99 Stat. 1354
(1985), and as it may be subsequently amended.
         LIVESTOCK. Horses, mules, and other equidae; cattle, sheep, goats, and
other bovidae; swine and other suidae; poultry; alpacas; llamas; captive white-
tailed deer; and any other animal that is raised or maintained domestically for
food or fiber.
         PRACTICE OF VETERINARY MEDICINE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4741.01.
         RESIDENTIAL DWELLING. A structure or shelter or the portion of a
structure or shelter that is used by one or more humans for the purpose of a
habitation.
         SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM. Any of the following:
            1.   Physical harm that carries an unnecessary or unjustifiable
substantial risk of death;
            2.   Physical harm that involves either partial or total permanent
incapacity;
            3.   Physical harm that involves acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain.
         TORMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1717.01.
         TORTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1717.01.
         TRAINING KENNEL. An establishment operating for profit that keeps,
houses, and maintains dogs for the purpose of training the dogs in return for a
fee or other consideration.
         WILD ANIMAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly torture, torment, needlessly mutilate or
maim, cruelly beat, poison, needlessly kill, or commit an act of cruelty
against a companion animal.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly cause serious physical harm to a
companion animal.
      (4)   No person who confines or who is the custodian or caretaker of a
companion animal shall negligently do any of the following:
         (a)   Torture, torment, or commit an act of cruelty against the
companion animal;
         (b)   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water if it can reasonably be
expected that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way
as a result of or due to the deprivation or confinement; or
         (c)   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably be expected
that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way as a
result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
      (5)   No person who confines or who is the custodian or caretaker of a
companion animal shall recklessly deprive the companion animal of necessary
sustenance or confine the companion animal without supplying it during the
confinement with sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water.
      (6)   No owner, manager, or employee of a dog kennel who confines or is
the custodian or caretaker of a companion animal shall knowingly do any of the
following:
         (a)   Torture, torment, needlessly mutilate or maim, cruelly beat,
poison, needlessly kill, or commit an act of cruelty against the companion
animal;
         (b)   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water if it is reasonably
expected that the companion animal would die or experience unnecessary or
unjustifiable pain or suffering as a result of the deprivation or confinement;
         (c)   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight if it is reasonably expected
that the companion animal would die or experience unnecessary or unjustifiable
pain or suffering as a result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
      (7)   No owner, manager, or employee of a dog kennel who confines or is
the custodian or caretaker of a companion animal shall negligently do any of
the following:
         (a)   Torture, torment, or commit an act of cruelty against the
companion animal;
         (b)   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water if it can reasonably be
expected that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way
as a result of or due to the deprivation or confinement; or
         (c)   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably be expected
that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way as a
result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
      (8)   Divisions (D)(2), (D)(3), (D)(4), (D)(5),(D)(6), and (D)(7) of this
section do not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   A companion animal used in scientific research conducted by an
institution in accordance with the Federal Animal Welfare Act and related
regulations;
         (b)   The lawful practice of veterinary medicine by a person who has
been issued a license, temporary permit, or registration certificate to do so
under R.C. Chapter 4741;
         (c)   Dogs being used or intended for use for hunting or field trial
purposes, provided that the dogs are being treated in accordance with usual and
commonly accepted practices for the care of hunting dogs;
         (d)   The use of common training devices, if the companion animal is
being treated in accordance with usual and commonly accepted practices for the
training of animals; or
         (e)   The administering of medicine to a companion animal that was
properly prescribed by a person who has been issued a license, temporary
permit, or registration certificate under R.C. Chapter 4741.
      (9)   Notwithstanding any section of the Ohio Revised Code that otherwise
provides for the distribution of fine moneys, the Clerk of Court shall forward
all fines the Clerk collects that are so imposed for any violation of this
division (D) to the Treasurer of the municipality, whose county humane society
or law enforcement agency is to be paid the fine money as determined under this
division. The Treasurer shall pay the fine moneys to the county humane society
or the county, township, municipal corporation, or state law enforcement agency
in this state that primarily was responsible for or involved in the
investigation and prosecution of the violation. If a county humane society
receives any fine moneys under this division, the county humane society shall
use the fine moneys either to provide the training that is required for humane
society agents under R.C. § 1717.061 or to provide additional training for
humane society agents.
(R.C. § 959.131)
   (E)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree. In addition, the court may order the offender
to forfeit the animal or livestock and may provide for its disposition,
including, but not limited to, the sale of the animal or livestock. If an
animal or livestock is forfeited and sold pursuant to this division, the
proceeds from the sale first shall be applied to pay the expenses incurred with
regard to the care of the animal from the time it was taken from the custody of
the former owner. The balance of the proceeds from the sale, if any, shall be
paid to the former owner of the animal.
(R.C. § 959.99(D))
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (D)(2) or (D)(5) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense and a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D)(3) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (D)(4) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
first degree on each subsequent offense.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D)(6) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (D)(7) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   (a)   A court may order a person who is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a violation of division (D) of this section to forfeit to an
impounding agency, as defined in R.C. § 959.132, any or all of the companion
animals in that person’s ownership or care. The court also may prohibit or
place limitations on the person’s ability to own or care for any companion
animals for a specified or indefinite period of time.
         (b)   A court may order a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty
to a violation of division (A) of this section or division (D) of this section
to reimburse an impounding agency for the reasonably necessary costs incurred
by the agency for the care of a companion animal that the agency impounded as a
result of the investigation or prosecution of the violation, provided that the
costs were not otherwise paid under R.C. § 959.132.
      (7)   If a court has reason to believe that a person who is convicted of
or pleads guilty to a violation of division (D) of this section has a mental or
emotional disorder that contributed to the violation, the court may impose as a
community control sanction or as a condition of probation a requirement that
the offender undergo psychological evaluation or counseling. The court shall
order the offender to pay the costs of the evaluation or counseling.
(R.C. § 959.99(E))
Statutory reference:
   Impoundment of companion animals; notice and hearing, see R.C. § 959.132
§ 90.24 ANIMAL FIGHTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do either of the following:
      (1)   Engage in cockfighting, bearbaiting, or pitting an animal against
another;
      (2)   Use, train, or possess any animal for seizing, detaining, or
maltreating a domestic animal.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do either of the following:
      (1)   Be employed at cockfighting, bearbaiting, or pitting an animal
against another;
      (2)   Do any of the following regarding an event involving cockfighting,
bearbaiting, or pitting an animal against another:
         (a)   Wager money or anything else of value on the results of the
event;
         (b)   Pay money or give anything else of value in exchange for
admission to or being present at the event;
         (c)   Receive money or anything else of value in exchange for the
admission of another person to the event or for another person to be present at
the event;
         (d)   Use, possess, or permit or cause to be present at the event any
device or substance intended to enhance an animal’s ability to fight or to
inflict injury on another animal;
         (e)   Permit or cause a minor to be present at the event if any person
present at or involved with the event is conducting any of the activities
described in division (B)(1) or (B)(2)(a), (B)(2)(b), (B)(2)(c), or (B)(2)(d)
of this section.
   (C)   A person who knowingly witnesses cockfighting, bearbaiting, or an
event in which one animal is pitted against another when a violation of
division (B) of this section is occurring at the cockfighting, bearbaiting, or
event is an aider and abettor and has committed a violation of this division.
(R.C. § 959.15)
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 959.99(C), (I))
Statutory reference:
   Dogfighting, felony provisions, see R.C. § 959.16
§ 90.25 TRAPSHOOTING.
   (A)   Live birds or fowl shall not be used as targets in trapshooting.
(R.C. § 959.17)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 959.99(C))
§ 90.26 LOUD DOG.
   (A)   No person shall own, harbor, or keep in custody a dog which disturbs
the peace by barking, yelping, howling, or making other loud noises to the
annoyance and/or discomfort of any person. Continuous barking, yelping,
howling, and/or making other loud noises for 15 consecutive minutes by such
dog, whether confined inside a residence or building or to the outside area,
shall be deemed to have disturbed the peace and to have caused the annoyance
and discomfort of persons; provided, that at the time of the complaint, no
person or persons were trespassing or threatening to trespass upon the private
property of the owner, and provided that the dog was not being teased or
provoked in any manner.
   (B)   Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to remain, be lodged or
fed within any dwelling, building, yard, or enclosure owned or occupied by such
person shall be considered as harboring or keeping such dog.
   (C)   Upon an initial complaint, an enforcement officer shall warn the
person in writing of the violation. Upon a second such complaint within 30
days, the enforcement officer shall charge the person with a violation of this
section.
   (D)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to owners, operators, or
employees of licensed veterinary hospitals, licensed kennels, or licensed
animal boarding establishments, nor does this section apply to blind, deaf or
hearing impaired, or mobility impaired persons when the dog serves as an
assistance dog.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances generally, see
Chapter 93
§ 90.27 DOG TAGS.
   (A)   No owner of a dog, except a dog constantly confined to a dog kennel
registered under R.C. Chapter 955 or one licensed under R.C. Chapter 956, shall
fail to require the dog to wear, at all times, a valid tag issued in connection
with a certificate of registration. A dog found not wearing at any time a valid
tag shall be prima-facie evidence of lack of registration and shall subject any
dog found not wearing such a tag to impounding, sale, or destruction.
(R.C. § 955.10)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(B))
§ 90.28 NUISANCE, DANGEROUS, AND VICIOUS DOG DEFINED; TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP
CERTIFICATE; FORM STATING DOG’S PRIOR BEHAVIOR.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   A dog that, without provocation, and subject to division (b) of
this definition, has done any of the following:
            1.   Caused injury, other than killing or serious injury, to any
person;
            2.   Killed another dog; or
            3.   Been the subject of a third or subsequent violation of R.C. §
955.22(C) or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (b)   DANGEROUS DOG does not include a police dog that has caused
injury, other than killing or serious injury, to any person or has killed
another dog while the police dog is being used to assist one or more law
enforcement officers in the performance of their official duties.
      MENACING FASHION. A dog that would cause any person being chased or
approached to reasonably believe that the dog will cause physical injury to
that person.
      NUISANCE DOG.
         (a)   Subject to division (b) of this definition, NUISANCE DOG means a
dog that without provocation and while off the premises of its owner, keeper,
or harborer has chased or approached a person in either a menacing fashion or
an apparent attitude of attack, or has attempted to bite or otherwise endanger
any person.
         (b)   NUISANCE DOG does not include a police dog that, while being
used to assist one or more law enforcement officers in the performance of
official duties, has chased or approached a person in either a menacing fashion
or an apparent attitude of attack or has attempted to bite or otherwise
endanger any person.
      POLICE DOG. A dog that has been trained and may be used to assist one or
more law enforcement officers in the performance of their official duties.
      SERIOUS INJURY. Any of the following:
         (a)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
         (b)   Any physical harm that involves a permanent incapacity, whether
partial or total, or a temporary, substantial incapacity;
         (c)   Any physical harm that involves a permanent disfigurement or a
temporary, serious disfigurement; or
         (d)   Any physical harm that involves acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering or any degree of prolonged or intractable
pain.
      VICIOUS DOG.
         (a)   A dog that, without provocation and subject to division (b) of
this definition, has killed or caused serious injury to any person.
         (b)   VICIOUS DOG does not include either of the following:
            1.   A police dog that has killed or caused serious injury to any
person while the police dog is being used to assist one or more law enforcement
officers in the performance of their official duties; or
            2.   A dog that has killed or caused serious injury to any person
while a person was committing or attempting to commit a trespass or other
criminal offense on the property of the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog.
      WITHOUT PROVOCATION. A dog acts WITHOUT PROVOCATION when it was not
teased, tormented, or abused by a person, or it was not coming to the aid or
the defense of a person who was not engaged in illegal or criminal activity and
who was not using the dog as a means of carrying out the activity.
(R.C. § 955.11(A))
   (B)   No person, who is the owner or keeper of horses, mules, cattle, bison,
sheep, goats, swine, llamas, alpacas, or geese, shall permit them to run at
large in the public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or cause the animals to be herded, kept, or detained for the purpose of
grazing on premises other than those owned or lawfully occupied by the owner or
keeper of the animals.
(R.C. §§ 951.02)
   (C)   No owner, keeper, or harborer of any female dog shall permit it to go
beyond the premises of the owner, keeper, or harborer at any time the dog is in
heat unless the dog is properly in leash.
   (D)   Except when a dog is lawfully engaged in hunting and accompanied by
the owner, keeper, harborer, or handler of the dog, no owner, keeper, or
harborer of any dog shall fail at any time to do either of the following:
      (1)   Keep the dog physically confined or restrained upon the premises of
the owner, keeper, or harborer by a leash, tether, adequate fence, supervision,
or secure enclosure to prevent escape; or
      (2)   Keep the dog under the reasonable control of some person.
   (E)   Except when a dangerous dog is lawfully engaged in hunting or training
for the purpose of hunting and is accompanied by the owner, keeper, harborer,
or handler of the dog, no owner, keeper, or harborer of a dangerous dog shall
fail to do either of the following:
      (1)   While the dog is on the premises of the owner, keeper, or harborer,
securely confine it at all times in a locked pen that has a top; or
      (2)   While the dog is off the premises of the owner, keeper, or
harborer, keep that dog on a chain-link leash or tether that is not more than
six feet in length and additionally do at least one of the following: keep the
dog in a locked pen that has a top, locked fenced yard, or other locked
enclosure that has a top; have the leash or tether controlled by a person who
is of suitable age and discretion or securely attach, tie, or affix the leash
or tether to the ground or a stationary object or fixture so that the dog is
adequately restrained and station a person in close enough proximity to that
dog so as to prevent it from causing injury to any person; or muzzle that dog.
   (F)   No person who has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more
violations of division (D) of this section involving the same dog and no owner,
keeper, or harborer of a dangerous dog shall fail to do the following:
      (1)   Obtain liability insurance with an insurer authorized to write
liability insurance in this state providing coverage in each occurrence because
of damage or bodily injury to or death of a person caused by the dangerous dog,
if so ordered by a court, and provide proof of that liability insurance upon
request to any law enforcement officer, county dog warden, or public health
official charged with enforcing this section;
      (2)   Obtain a dangerous dog registration certificate from the County
Auditor pursuant to division (J) of this section, affix a tag that identifies
the dog as a dangerous dog to the dog’s collar, and ensure that the dog wears
the collar and tag at all times;
      (3)   Notify the local dog warden immediately if any of the following
occurs:
         (a)   The dog is loose or unconfined;
         (b)   The dog bites a person, unless the dog is on the property of the
owner of the dog, and the person who is bitten is unlawfully trespassing or
committing a criminal act within the boundaries of that property; or
         (c)   The dog attacks another animal while the dog is off the property
of the owner of the dog.
      (4)   If the dog is sold, given to another person, or dies, notify the
County Auditor within ten days of the sale, transfer, or death.
   (G)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Debark or surgically silence a dog that the person knows or has
reason to believe is a dangerous dog;
      (2)   Possess a dangerous dog if the person knows or has reason to
believe that the dog has been debarked or surgically silenced; or
      (3)   Falsely attest on a waiver form provided by the veterinarian under
division (H) of this section that the person’s dog is not a dangerous dog or
otherwise provide false information on that written waiver form.
   (H)   Before a veterinarian debarks or surgically silences a dog, the
veterinarian may give the owner of the dog a written waiver form that attests
that the dog is not a dangerous dog. The written waiver form shall include all
of the following:
      (1)   The veterinarian’s license number and current business address;
      (2)   The number of the license of the dog if the dog is licensed;
      (3)   A reasonable description of the age, coloring, and gender of the
dog as well as any notable markings on the dog;
      (4)   The signature of the owner of the dog attesting that the owner’s
dog is not a dangerous dog; and
      (5)   A statement that R.C. § 955.22(F) prohibits any person from doing
any of the following:
         (a)   Debarking or surgically silencing a dog that the person knows or
has reason to believe is a dangerous dog;
         (b)   Possessing a dangerous dog if the person knows or has reason to
believe that the dog has been debarked or surgically silenced; and/or
         (c)   Falsely attesting on a waiver form provided by the veterinarian
under R.C. § 955.22(G) that the person’s dog is not a dangerous dog or
otherwise provide false information on that written waiver form.
   (I)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of division
(G) of this section that the veterinarian who is charged with the violation
obtained, prior to debarking or surgically silencing the dog, a written waiver
form that complies with division (H) of this section and that attests that the
dog is not a dangerous dog.
   (J)   (1)   The County Auditor shall issue a dangerous dog registration
certificate to a person who is the owner of a dog, who is 18 years of age or
older, and who provides the following to the County Auditor:
         (a)   A fee of $50;
         (b)   The person’s address, phone number, and other appropriate means
for the local dog warden or County Auditor to contact the person; and
         (c)   With respect to the person and the dog for which the
registration is sought, all of the following:
            1.   Either satisfactory evidence of the dog’s current rabies
vaccination or a statement from a licensed veterinarian that a rabies
vaccination is medically contraindicated for the dog;
            2.   Either satisfactory evidence of the fact that the dog has been
neutered or spayed or a statement from a licensed veterinarian that neutering
or spaying of the dog is medically contraindicated;
            3.   Satisfactory evidence of the fact that the person has posted
and will continue to post clearly visible signs at the person’s residence
warning both minors and adults of the presence of a dangerous dog on the
property; and
            4.   Satisfactory evidence of the fact that the dog has been
permanently identified by means of a microchip and the dog’s microchip number.
      (2)   Upon the issuance of a dangerous dog registration certificate to
the owner of a dog, the County Auditor shall provide the owner with a uniformly
designed tag that identifies the animal as a dangerous dog. The owner shall
renew the certificate annually for the same fee and in the same manner as the
initial certificate was obtained. If a certificate holder relocates to a new
county, the certificate holder shall follow the procedure in division (J)(3)(b)
of this section and, upon the expiration of the certificate issued in the
original county, shall renew the certificate in the new county.
      (3)   (a)   If the owner of a dangerous dog for whom a registration
certificate has previously been obtained relocates to a new address within the
same county, the owner shall provide notice of the new address to the County
Auditor within ten days of relocating to the new address.
         (b)   If the owner of a dangerous dog for whom a registration
certificate has previously been obtained relocates to a new address within
another county, the owner shall do both of the following within ten days of
relocating to the new address:
            1.   Provide written notice of the new address and a copy of the
original dangerous dog registration certificate to the County Auditor of the
new county; and
            2.   Provide written notice of the new address to the County
Auditor of the county where the owner previously resided.
      (4)   The owner of a dangerous dog shall present the dangerous dog
registration certificate upon being requested to do so by any law enforcement
officer, dog warden, or public health official charged with enforcing this
section.
(R.C. § 955.22)
   (K)   (1)   The municipal court or county court that has territorial
jurisdiction over the residence of the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog
shall conduct any hearing concerning the designation of the dog as a nuisance
dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog.
      (2)   If a person who is authorized to enforce this chapter has
reasonable cause to believe that a dog in the person’s jurisdiction is a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog, the person shall notify the owner,
keeper, or harborer of that dog, by certified mail or in person, of both of the
following:
         (a)   The person has designated the dog a nuisance dog, dangerous dog,
or vicious dog, as applicable; and
         (b)   The owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog may request a hearing
regarding the designation in accordance with this division (K). The notice
shall include instructions for filing a request for a hearing in the county in
which the dog’s owner, keeper, or harborer resides.
      (3)   If the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog disagrees with the
designation of the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog, as
applicable, the owner, keeper, or harborer, not later than ten days after
receiving notification of the designation, may request a hearing regarding the
determination. The request for a hearing shall be in writing and shall be filed
with the municipal court or county court that has territorial jurisdiction over
the residence of the dog’s owner, keeper, or harborer. At the hearing, the
person who designated the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog
has the burden of proving, by clear and convincing evidence, that the dog is a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog. The owner, keeper, or harborer of
the dog or the person who designated the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog,
or vicious dog may appeal the court’s final determination as in any other case
filed in that court.
      (4)   A court, upon motion of an owner, keeper, or harborer or an
attorney representing the owner, keeper, or harborer, may order that the dog
designated as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog be held in the
possession of the owner, keeper, or harborer until the court makes a final
determination under this section or during the pendency of an appeal, as
applicable. Until the court makes a final determination and during the pendency
of any appeal, the dog shall be confined or restrained in accordance with the
provisions of division (E) of this section that apply to dangerous dogs
regardless of whether the dog has been designated as a vicious dog or a
nuisance dog rather than a dangerous dog. The owner, keeper, or harborer of the
dog shall not be required to comply with any other requirements established in
this code or the Ohio Revised Code that concern a nuisance dog, dangerous dog,
or vicious dog, as applicable, until the court makes a final determination and
during the pendency of any appeal.
      (5)   If a dog is finally determined under this division (K), or on
appeal as described in this division (K), to be a vicious dog, R.C. § 955.11(D)
and divisions (E) to (J) of this section apply with respect to the dog and the
owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog as if the dog were a dangerous dog, and
the court shall issue an order that specifies that those provisions apply with
respect to the dog and the owner, keeper, or harborer in that manner. As part
of the order, the court shall require the owner, keeper, or harborer to obtain
the liability insurance required under division (F)(1) in an amount described
in §
90.99(B)(5)(b).
      (6)   As used in this division (K), NUISANCE DOG, DANGEROUS DOG, and
VICIOUS DOG have the same meanings as in R.C. § 955.11.
(R.C. §955.222)
(Ord. 2015-031, passed 8-17-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.29 FAILURE TO REGISTER DOG OR DOG KENNEL.
   (A)   No owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog more than three months of age,
nor owner of a dog kennel, shall fail to file an application for registration
required by R.C. § 955.01, nor shall he or she fail to pay the legal fee
therefor.
(R.C. § 955.21)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $100 on a first offense, and on each subsequent offense shall be
fined not less than $75 nor more than $250 and may be imprisoned for not more
than 30 days.
(R.C. § 955.99(E))
§ 90.30 HINDERING THE CAPTURE OF UNREGISTERED DOG.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct or interfere with anyone lawfully engaged in
capturing an unlicensed dog or making an examination of a dog wearing a tag.
(R.C. § 955.24)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(B))
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
§ 90.31 UNLAWFUL TAG.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep, or harbor a dog wearing a fictitious,
altered, or invalid registration tag or a registration tag not issued by the
County Auditor in connection with the registration of that animal.
(R.C. § 955.25)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(B))
§ 90.32 ASSISTANCE DOG WITH BLIND, DEAF, OR HEARING IMPAIRED PERSON, OR PERSON
WITH A MOBILITY IMPAIRMENT, OR TRAINER.
   (A)   When a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired, a person with a
mobility impairment, or a trainer of an assistance dog is accompanied by an
assistance dog, the person or trainer, as applicable, is entitled to the full
and equal accommodations, advantages, facilities, and privileges of all public
conveyances, hotels, and lodging places, all places of public accommodation,
amusement, or resort, and other places to which the general public is invited,
and may take the dog into such conveyances and places, subject only to the
conditions and limitations applicable to all persons not so accompanied, except
that:
      (1)   The dog shall not occupy a seat in any public conveyance; and
      (2)   The dog shall be leashed while using the facilities of a common
carrier.
      (3)   Any dog in training to become an assistance dog shall be covered by
a liability insurance policy provided by the nonprofit special agency engaged
in such work protecting members of the public against personal injury or
property damage caused by the dog.
   (B)   No person shall deprive a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing
impaired, a person who has a mobility impairment, or a trainer of an assistance
dog when the person or trainer, as applicable, is accompanied by an assistance
dog of any of the advantages, facilities, or privileges provided in division
(A) of this section, and no person shall charge the person or trainer a fee or
charge for the dog.
(R.C. § 955.43(A), (B))
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ASSISTANCE DOG. A dog that has been trained by a nonprofit or for-profit
special agency and that is one of the following:
         (a)   A guide dog;
         (b)   A hearing dog;
         (c)   A service dog.
      BLIND. Includes either of the following:
         (a)   Vision 20/200 or less in the better eye with proper correction;
or
   Animals   31
         (b)   Field defect in the better eye with proper correction that
contracts the peripheral field so that the diameter of the visual field
subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees.
      GUIDE DOG. A dog that has been trained or is in training to assist a
blind person.
      HEARING DOG. A dog that has been trained or is in training to assist a
deaf or hearing- impaired person.
      INSTITUTIONS OF EDUCATION. Includes:
         (a)   Any state university or college as defined in R.C. § 3345.32;
         (b)   Any private college or university that holds a certificate of
authorization issued by the Ohio Board of Regents pursuant to R.C. Chapter
1713;
         (c)   Any elementary or secondary school operated by a board of
education;
         (d)   Any chartered or nonchartered nonpublic elementary or secondary
school; or
         (e)   Any school issued a certificate of registration by the state
Board of Career Colleges and Schools.
      PERSON WITH A MOBILITY IMPAIRMENT. Any person, regardless of age, who is
subject to a physiological impairment regardless of its cause, nature, or
extent that renders the person unable to move about without the aid of
crutches, a wheelchair, or any other form of support, or that limits the
person's functional ability to ambulate, climb, descend, sit, rise, or perform
any related function. The phrase includes a person with a neurological or
psychological disability that limits the person's functional ability to
ambulate, climb, descend, sit, rise, or perform any related function. The
phrase also includes a person with a seizure disorder and a person who is
diagnosed with autism.
      SERVICE DOG. Means a dog that has been trained or is in training to
assist a person with a mobility impairment.
(R.C. §§ 955.011(B), 955.43(C))
   (D)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(D))
Cross-reference:
   Assaulting assistance dog, see §
136.15
§ 90.33 RETAIL SALE AND TRANSPORTATION OF DOGS.
   (A)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or expose for sale to the general
public at retail any dog under the age of eight weeks.
   (B)   No person shall receive or ship, for sale to the general public at
retail, any dog that is not accompanied by a certificate, issued by a licensed
veterinarian who is accredited by the United States Department of Agriculture
and authorized to issue health certificates for animals in interstate commerce,
certifying that the dog is sufficiently sound and healthy to be reasonably
expected to withstand the intended transportation without adverse effect.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the transportation of dogs in
interstate commerce by common carrier, provided that neither the point of
shipment nor the point of receiving is within this state.
   (D)   No person responsible for the transportation of a pregnant dog shall
be liable in damages for any injury or illness of, or the death of, the dog or
any puppies, whenever the injuries, illness, or death results from the birth of
such puppies during the time the dog is being transported.
(R.C. § 955.50)
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor for a
first offense; each subsequent offense is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(C))
§ 90.34 COLORING RABBITS OR BABY POULTRY; REGULATION OF SALE AND DISPLAY.
   (A)   No person shall dye or otherwise color any rabbit or baby poultry,
including, but not limited to, chicks and ducklings. No person shall sell,
offer for sale, expose for sale, raffle, or give away any rabbit or baby
poultry which has been dyed or otherwise colored. No poultry younger than four
weeks of age may be sold, given away, or otherwise distributed to any person in
lots of less than three. Stores, shops, vendors, and others offering young
poultry for sale or other distribution shall provide and operate brooders or
other heating devices that may be necessary to maintain poultry in good health,
and shall keep adequate food and water available to the poultry at all times.
(R.C. § 925.62)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on a first offense; each subsequent offense is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
(R.C. § 925.99(B))
§ 90.35 JACKLIGHTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall throw or cast the rays of a spotlight or other
artificial light from any vehicle into any field, woodland, or forest while
having in his or her possession a hunting device, or throw or cast the rays of
a spotlight or other artificial light from any vehicle into any field,
woodland, or forest for the purpose of locating a wild animal.
   (B)   This section does not apply to law enforcement officers, wildlife
officers, military personnel, and officers or employees of the Department of
Natural Resources while in the performance of their duties, or to any landowner
or lessee having a reason to use a light while engaged in surveillance or
protection of his or her property.
   (C)   An officer whose duty it is to enforce this chapter may arrest a
person whom he or she has reasonable grounds to believe is violating this
section, search the vehicle for firearms or other hunting implements in the
possession or under the control of that person, and seize the same.
(R.C. § 1533.161)
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(B))
§ 90.36 RESTRICTIONS ON DOG OWNERSHIP FOR CERTAIN CONVICTED FELONS.
   (A)   No person who is convicted of, or pleads guilty to, a felony offense
of violence committed on or after May 22, 2012 or a felony violation of any
provision of R.C. Chapter 959, R.C. Chapter 2923, or R.C. Chapter 2925
committed on or after May 22, 2012, shall knowingly own, possess, have custody
of, or reside in a residence with either of the following for a period of three
years commencing either upon the date of release of the person from any period
of incarceration imposed for the offense or violation or, if the person is not
incarcerated for the offense or violation, upon the date of the person’s final
release from the other sanctions imposed for the offense or violation:
      (1)   An unspayed or unneutered dog older than 12 weeks of age; or
      (2)   Any dog that has been determined to be a dangerous dog under R.C.
Chapter 955 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (B)   A person described in division (A) of this section shall microchip for
permanent identification any dog owned, possessed by, or in the custody of the
person.
   (C)   (1)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who is
confined in a correctional institution of the Department of Rehabilitation and
Correction.
      (2)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person with
respect to any dog that the person owned, possessed, had custody of, or resided
in a residence with prior to May 22, 2012.
(R.C. § 955.54)
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(O))
§ 90.37 SEXUAL CONDUCT WITH AN ANIMAL.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ANIMAL. Means a nonhuman mammal, bird, reptile, or amphibian, either dead
or alive.
      OFFENSE. Means a violation of this section or an attempt, in violation of
R.C. § 2923.02, to violate this section.
      OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 959.132.
      SEXUAL CONDUCT. Means either of the following committed for the purpose
of sexual gratification:
         (a)   Any act done between a person and animal that involves contact
of the penis of one and the vulva of the other, the penis of one and the penis
of the other, the penis of one and the anus of the other, the mouth of one and
the penis of the other, the mouth of one and the anus of the other, the vulva
of one and the vulva of the other, the mouth of one and the vulva of the other,
any other contact between a reproductive organ of one and a reproductive organ
of the other, or any other insertion of a reproductive organ of one into an
orifice of the other;
         (b)   Without a bona fide veterinary or animal husbandry purpose to do
so, the insertion, however slight, of any part of a person’s body or any
instrument, apparatus, or other object into the vaginal, anal, or reproductive
opening of an animal.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly engage in sexual conduct with an animal or
knowingly possess, sell, or purchase an animal with the intent that it be
subjected to sexual conduct.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly organize, promote, aid, or abet in the
conduct of an act involving any sexual conduct with an animal.
(R.C. § 959.21)
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
second degree. In addition, the court may order the offender to forfeit the
animal or livestock and may provide for its disposition, including, but not
limited to, the sale of the animal or livestock. If an animal or livestock is
forfeited and sold pursuant to this division, the proceeds from the sale first
shall be applied to pay the expenses incurred with regard to the care of the
animal from the time it was taken from the custody of the former owner. The
balance of the proceeds from the sale, if any, shall be paid to the former
owner of the animal.
(R.C. § 959.99(D))
      (2)   If a court has reason to believe that a person who is convicted of,
or pleads guilty to, a violation of this section suffers from a mental or
emotional disorder that contributed to the violation, the court may impose as a
community control sanction or as a condition of probation a requirement that
the offender undergo psychological evaluation or counseling. The court shall
order the offender to pay the costs of the evaluation or counseling.
(R.C. § 959.99(E)(6))
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another
penalty is not specifically provided shall be subject to the penalty as
provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   (1) Whoever violates §
90.28(B) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates §
90.28(C) or commits a violation of §
90.28(D) that involves a dog that is not a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or
vicious dog shall be fined not less than $25 or more than $100 on a first
offense, and on each subsequent offense shall be fined not less than $75 or
more than $250 and may be imprisoned for not more than 30 days.
         (b)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in (B)(2)(a) of this
section, if the offender is guilty of a violation of division §
90.28(C) or a violation of §
90.28(D) that involves a dog that is not a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or
vicious dog, the court may order the offender to personally supervise the dog
that the offender owns, keeps, or harbors, to cause that dog to complete dog
obedience training, or to do both.
(R.C. § 955.99(E))
      (3)   (a)   Whoever commits a violation of §
90.28(D) that involves a nuisance dog is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on the
first offense and of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on each subsequent
offense involving the same dog. Upon a person being convicted of or pleading
guilty to a third violation of §
90.28(D) involving the same dog, the court shall require the offender to
register the involved dog as a dangerous dog.
         (b)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in (B)(2)(a), if a
violation of division §
90.28(D) involves a nuisance dog, the court may order the offender to
personally supervise the nuisance dog that the offender owns, keeps, or
harbors, to cause that dog to complete dog obedience training, or to do both.
(R.C. § 955.99(F))
      (4)   Whoever commits a violation of §
90.28(D) that involves a dangerous dog, or a violation of §
90.28(E) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and
of a misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent offense. Additionally,
the court may order the offender to personally supervise the dangerous dog that
the offender owns, keeps, or harbors, to cause that dog to complete dog
obedience training, or to do both, and the court may order the offender to
obtain liability insurance pursuant to division §
90.28(F). The court, in the alternative, may order the dangerous dog to be
humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the county dog warden, or the
county humane society at the owner’s expense. With respect to a violation of §
90.28(D) that involves a dangerous dog, until the court makes a final
determination and during the pendency of any appeal of a violation of that
division and at the discretion of the dog warden, the dog shall be confined or
restrained in accordance with division (E) of this section or at the county dog
pound at the owner’s expense.
(R.C. § 955.99(G))
      (5)   (a)   Whoever commits a violation of §
90.28(D) that involves a vicious dog is guilty of one of the following:
            1.   A felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the
dog kills or seriously injures a person. Additionally, the court shall order
that the vicious dog be humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the
county dog warden, or the county humane society at the owner’s expense; or
            2.   A misdemeanor of the first degree if the dog causes serious
injury to a person. Additionally, the court may order the vicious dog to be
humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the county dog warden, or the
county humane society at the owner’s expense.
         (b)   If the court does not order the vicious dog to be destroyed
under division (B)(5)(a)2. of this section, the court shall issue an order that
specifies that R.C. § 955.11(D) and §
90.28(E) to (J) of this section apply with respect to the dog and the owner,
keeper, or harborer of the dog as if the dog were a dangerous dog. As part of
the order, the court shall order the offender to obtain the liability insurance
required under division §
90.28(F)(1) in an amount, exclusive of interest and costs, that equals or
exceeds $100,000. Until the court makes a final determination and during the
pendency of any appeal of a violation of §
90.28(D) and at the discretion of the dog warden, the dog shall be confined or
restrained in accordance with the provisions described in §
90.28(E) or at the county dog pound at the owner’s expense.
(R.C. § 955.99(H))
      (6)   Whoever violates §
90.28(F)(2) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(J))
      (7)   Whoever violates division §
90.28(G)(1), (G)(2), or (G)(3) is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. Additionally, the court shall order that the dog
involved in the violation be humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the
county dog warden, or the county humane society. Until the court makes a final
determination and during the pendency of any appeal of a violation of §
90.28(G)(1), (G)(2), or (G)(3) and at the discretion of the dog warden, the dog
shall be confined or restrained in accordance with the provisions of §
90.28(E) or at the county dog pound at the owner’s expense.
(R.C. § 955.99(L))
      (8)   Whoever violates §
90.28(F)(1), (F)(3), or (F)(4) is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(M))
      (9)   Whoever violates §
90.28(J)(4) is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(N))
      (10)   (a)   If a dog is confined at the county dog pound pursuant to
division (B)(4), (B)(5), or (B)(7) of this section, the county dog warden shall
give written notice of the confinement to the owner of the dog. If the county
dog warden is unable to give the notice to the owner of the dog, the county dog
warden shall post the notice on the door of the residence of the owner of the
dog or in another conspicuous place on the premises at which the dog was
seized. The notice shall include a statement that a security in the amount of
$100 is due to the county dog warden within ten days to secure payment of all
reasonable expenses, including medical care and boarding of the dog for 60
days, expected to be incurred by the county dog pound in caring for the dog
pending the determination. The county dog warden may draw from the security any
actual costs incurred in caring for the dog.
         (b)   If the person ordered to post security under division (B)(10)(a)
of this section does not do so within ten days of the confinement of the
animal, the dog is forfeited, and the county dog warden may determine the
disposition of the dog unless the court issues an order that specifies
otherwise.
         (c)   Not more than ten days after the court makes a final
determination under division (B)(4), (B)(5), or (B)(7) of this section, the
county dog warden shall provide the owner of the dog with the actual cost of
the confinement of the dog. If the county dog warden finds that the security
provided under division (B)(10)(a) of this section is less than the actual cost
of confinement of the dog, the owner shall remit the difference between the
security provided and the actual cost to the county dog warden within 30 days
after the court’s determination. If the county dog warden finds that the
security provided under division (B)(10)(a) of this section is greater than
that actual cost, the county dog warden shall remit the difference between the
security provided and the actual cost to the owner within 30 days after the
court’s determination.
(R.C. § 955.99(P))
      (11)   As used in this division (B), NUISANCE DOG, DANGEROUS DOG, and
VICIOUS DOG have the same meanings as in R.C. § 955.11.
(Ord. 91-81, passed 7-16-1991; Ord. 2015-031, passed 8-17-2015)
CHAPTER 91: FIREWORKS, EXPLOSIVES, AND FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks and Explosives
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Possession, sale, and use of fireworks
   
91.03   Permit to use fireworks
   
91.04   Manufacturing or wholesale sale without a license; prohibitions
   
91.05   Purchasers to comply with law; unauthorized purchases
   
91.06   Exhibition without a license; prohibitions for exhibitions
   
91.07   Unauthorized transportation or shipping
   
91.08   Application of subchapter
   
91.09   Arrest of offender; seizure and forfeiture of fireworks; distribution
of fines
   
91.10   Safety requirements for fireworks showroom structures
Explosives
   
91.20   Storage of explosives
   
91.21   Blasting permit
Fire Prevention
   
91.30   Removal of flammable materials or obstructions
   
91.31   Protective appliances
   
91.32   Compliance with order
   
91.33   Waste receptacles
   
91.34   Hotel to have fire warning device producing visible signal
   
91.35   Fire suppression systems
   
91.36   Violations of State Fire Code prohibited
   
91.37   Posting arson notices in hotels, motels, and other places
   
91.38   Negligent burning
   
91.39   Spreading alarm of unfriendly fire
   
91.40   Unvented heaters
Open Burning
   
91.55   Definitions
   
91.56   Relations to other prohibitions
   
91.57   Open burning in restricted areas
   
91.58   Permission and notice to open burn
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Failure to secure dangerous ordnance, see §
137.06
   License to possess dangerous ordnance, see §
137.10
   Vehicles carrying explosives, see §
74.36
Statutory reference:
   Fire Marshal, fire safety, see R.C. Chapter 3737
   Fireworks, state law provisions, see R.C. Chapter 3743
   Ohio Fire Code, see O.A.C. Chapter 1301:7-7
   Open burning, see O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19
   Power to regulate explosives, see R.C. § 715.60
FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   1.3G FIREWORKS. Display fireworks consistent with regulations of the United
States Department of Transportation as expressed using the designation
“Division 1.3” in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
   1.4G FIREWORKS. Consumer fireworks consistent with regulations of the United
States Department of Transportation as expressed using the designation
“Division 1.4” in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
   BEER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4301.01.
   BOOBY TRAP. A small tube that has a string protruding from both ends that
has a friction-sensitive composition and that is ignited by pulling the ends of
the string.
   CIGARETTE LOAD. A small wooden peg that is coated with a small quantity of
explosive composition and that is ignited in a cigarette.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DISCHARGE SITE. An area immediately surrounding the mortars used to fire
aerial shells.
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device prepared for the purpose of producing a
visible or an audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation, except
ordinary matches and except as provided in R.C. § 3743.80.
   FIREWORKS INCIDENT. Any action or omission that occurs at a fireworks
exhibition that results in injury or death, or a substantial risk of injury or
death, to any person, and that involves either of the following:
      (1)   The handling or other use, or the results of the handling or other
use, of fireworks or associated equipment or other materials; or
      (2)   The failure of any person to comply with any applicable requirement
imposed by this chapter or R.C. Chapter 3743, or any applicable rule adopted
under this chapter or R.C. Chapter 3743.
   FIREWORKS INCIDENT SITE. A discharge site or other location at a fireworks
exhibition where a fireworks incident occurs, a location where an injury or
death associated with a fireworks incident occurs, or a location where evidence
of a fireworks incident or an injury or death associated with a fireworks
incident is found
   FIREWORKS PLANT. All buildings and other structures in which the
manufacturing of fireworks, or the storage or sale of manufactured fireworks by
a manufacturer, takes place.
   FOUNTAIN DEVICE. Means a specific type of 1.4G firework that meets all of
the following criteria:
      (1)   It is nonaerial and nonreport producing.
      (2)   It is recognized and manufactured in accordance with sections 3.1.1
and 3.5 of APA standard 87-1 (2001 edition).
      (3)   It is a ground-based or hand-held sparkler with one or more tubes
containing a nonexplosive pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks
upon ignition, with or without additional effects that may include a colored
flame, audible crackling effect, audible whistle effect, or smoke.
      (4)   It contains not more than 75 grams of the nonexplosive pyrotechnic
mixture in any individual tube and not more than 500 grams or less for multiple
tubes.
   HIGHWAY. Any public street, road, alley, way, lane, or other public
thoroughfare.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4301.01.
   LICENSED BUILDING. A building on the licensed premises of a licensed
manufacturer or wholesaler of fireworks that is approved for occupancy by the
building official having jurisdiction.
   LICENSED EXHIBITOR OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED EXHIBITOR. A person licensed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55.
   LICENSED FOUNTAIN DEVICE RETAILER or LICENSED RETAILER. Means a person
licensed pursuant to R.C. § 3743.26.
   LICENSED MANUFACTURER OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED MANUFACTURER. A person
licensed pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.02 through 3743.08.
   LICENSED PREMISES. The real estate upon which a licensed manufacturer or
wholesaler of fireworks conducts business.
   LICENSED WHOLESALER OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED WHOLESALER. A person licensed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.15 through 3743.21.
   LIST OF LICENSED EXHIBITORS. The list required by R.C. § 3743.51(C).
   LIST OF LICENSED MANUFACTURERS. The list required by R.C. § 3743.03(C).
   LIST OF LICENSED WHOLESALERS. The list required by R.C. § 3743.16(C).
   MANUFACTURING OF FIREWORKS. The making of fireworks from raw materials, none
of which in and of themselves constitute fireworks, or the processing of
fireworks.
   NAVIGABLE WATERS. Any body of water susceptible of being used in its
ordinary condition as a highway of commerce over which trade and travel is or
may be conducted in the customary modes, but does not include a body of water
that is not capable of navigation by barges, tugboats, and other large vessels.
   NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS.
      (1)   Devices that produce a small report intended to surprise the user,
including, but not limited to, booby traps, cigarette loads, party poppers, and
snappers;
      (2)   Snakes or glow worms;
      (3)   Smoke devices; and
      (4)   Trick matches.
   PARTY POPPER. A small plastic or paper item that contains not more than 16
milligrams of friction-sensitive explosive composition that is ignited by
pulling a string protruding from the item, and from which paper streamers are
expelled when the item is ignited.
   PROCESSING OF FIREWORKS. The making of fireworks from materials all or part
of which in and of themselves constitute fireworks, but does not include the
mere packaging or repackaging of fireworks.
   RAILROAD. Any railway or railroad that carries freight or passengers for
hire, but does not include auxiliary tracks, spurs, and sidings installed and
primarily used in serving a mine, quarry, or plant.
   RETAIL SALE or SELL AT RETAIL. A sale of fireworks to a purchaser who
intends to use the fireworks and not to resell them.
   SMOKE DEVICE. A tube or sphere that contains pyrotechnic composition that,
upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
   SNAKE or GLOW WORM. A device that consists of a pressed pellet of
pyrotechnic composition that produces a large snake-like ash upon burning,
which ash expands in length as the pellet burns.
   SNAPPER. A small paper-wrapped item that contains a minute quantity of
explosive composition coated on small bits of sand and that, when dropped,
implodes.
   STORAGE LOCATION. A single parcel or contiguous parcels of real estate
approved by the Ohio Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. § 3743.04(I) or R.C. §
3743.17(F) that are separate from a licensed premises containing a retail
showroom, and which parcel or parcels a licensed manufacturer or wholesaler of
fireworks may use only for the distribution, possession, and storage of
fireworks in accordance with this chapter.
   TRICK MATCH. A kitchen or book match that is coated with a small quantity of
explosive composition and that, upon ignition, produces a small report or a
shower of sparks.
   WHOLESALE SALE or SELL AT WHOLESALE. A sale of fireworks to a purchaser who
intends to resell the fireworks so purchased.
   WIRE SPARKLER. A sparkler consisting of a wire or stick coated with a
nonexplosive pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks upon ignition
and that contains no more than 100 grams of this mixture.
(R.C. § 3743.01)
§ 91.02 POSSESSION, SALE, AND USE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   No person shall possess fireworks in this municipality or shall
possess for sale or sell fireworks in this municipality, except a licensed
manufacturer of fireworks as authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.02 to 3743.08, a
licensed wholesaler of fireworks as authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.15 to 3743.21, a
shipping permit holder as authorized by R.C. § 3743.40, a licensed fountain
device retailer as authorized by R.C. § 3743.27, a person as authorized by R.C.
§§ 3743.44 and 3743.45, or a licensed exhibitor of fireworks as authorized by
R.C. §§ 3743.50 to 3743.55, or as authorized by any municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to any of these statutes, and except as provided in
R.C. § 3743.80 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (H), R.C. §§ 3743.45 and 3743.80 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and except for licensed
exhibitors of fireworks authorized to conduct a fireworks exhibition pursuant
to R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, no person shall discharge, ignite, or explode any fireworks in this
municipality.
   (C)   No person shall use in a theater or public hall what is technically
known as fireworks showers, or a mixture containing potassium chlorate and
sulphur.
   (D)   No person shall sell fireworks of any kind to a person under 18 years
of age. No person under 18 years of age shall enter a fireworks sales showroom
unless that person is accompanied by a parent, legal guardian, or other
responsible adult. No person under 18 years of age shall touch or possess
fireworks on a licensed premises without the consent of the licensee. A
licensee may eject any person from a licensed premises that is in any way
disruptive to the safe operation of the premises.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 3743.44, no person, other than
a licensed manufacturer, licensed wholesaler, licensed exhibitor, or shipping
permit holder shall possess 1.3G fireworks in this municipality.
   (F)   No person shall negligently discharge, ignite, or explode fireworks
while in possession or control of, or under the influence of, any intoxicating
liquor, beer, or controlled substance.
   (G)   No person shall negligently discharge, ignite, or explode fireworks on
the property of another person without that person's permission to use
fireworks on that property.
(R.C. § 3743.65(A) - (E), (G), (H))
   (H)   Purchase, use, and local regulation of consumer-grade fireworks.
      (1)   Any person who intends to obtain possession in this state of 1.4G
fireworks purchased in this state shall obtain possession of the 1.4G fireworks
only from a licensed retailer, licensed manufacturer, or licensed wholesaler
and shall be subject to this division (H).
      (2)   Any person authorized under this division (H) to possess 1.4G
fireworks in this state may discharge, ignite, or explode those fireworks on
private property, with authorization from the property owner, on the following
days each year:
         (a)   January 1st;
         (b)   Chinese new year's day;
         (c)   May 5th;
         (d)   The last Monday in May, and the Saturday and Sunday immediately
preceding that day;
         (e)   June 19th;
         (f)   July 3rd, 4th, and 5th;
         (g)   The first Friday, Saturday, and Sunday before and after July
4th;
         (h)   The first Monday of September, and the Saturday and Sunday
immediately preceding that day;
         (i)   Diwali;
         (j)   December 31st.
      (3)   Fireworks discharged, ignited, or exploded pursuant to this
division (H) shall not be considered a public exhibition.
      (4)   The municipality may do either of the following:
         (a)   Restrict the dates and times a person may discharge, ignite, or
explode fireworks purchased pursuant to this division (H).
         (b)   Ban the discharge, ignition, or explosion of fireworks purchased
pursuant to this division (H).
      (5)   This division (H) does not limit the enforcement of any ordinance,
resolution, or statute that regulates noise, disturbance of the peace, or
disorderly conduct.
(R.C. § 3743.45) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Felony offense for disabling a fire suppression system, see R.C. § 3743.65
(F)
§ 91.03 PERMIT TO USE FIREWORKS.
   (A)   An exhibitor of fireworks licensed under R.C. §§ 3743.50 through
3743.55 who wishes to conduct a public fireworks exhibition shall apply for
approval to conduct the exhibition to the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer
and to the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the
designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
having jurisdiction over the premises.
   (B)   The approval required by division (A) of this section shall be
evidenced by the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief
or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police
Chief or similar chief law enforcement officer, signing a permit for the
exhibition. Any exhibitor of fireworks who wishes to conduct a public fireworks
exhibition may obtain a copy of the form from the State Fire Marshal or, if
available, from the Fire Chief, a fire prevention officer, the Police Chief or
other similar chief law enforcement officer, or a designee of the Police Chief
or other similar chief law enforcement officer.
   (C)   Before a permit is signed and issued to a licensed exhibitor of
fireworks, the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in consultation with the
Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of
the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, shall inspect
the premises on which the exhibition will take place and shall determine that,
in fact, the applicant for the permit is a licensed exhibitor of fireworks.
Each applicant shall show his or her license as an exhibitor of fireworks to
the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer.
   (D)   The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and the Police Chief or
other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police
Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, shall give approval to
conduct a public fireworks exhibition only if satisfied, based on the
inspection, that the premises on which the exhibition will be conducted allow
the exhibitor to comply with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal
pursuant to R.C. § 3743.53(B) and (E) and that the applicant is, in fact, a
licensed exhibitor of fireworks. The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in
consultation with the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement
officer, or with the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, may inspect the premises immediately prior to the
exhibition to determine if the exhibitor has complied with the rules, and may
revoke a permit for noncompliance with the rules.
   (E)   If the legislative authority has prescribed a fee for the issuance of
a permit for a public fireworks exhibition, the Fire Chief or fire prevention
officer and Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or
their designee, shall not issue a permit until the exhibitor pays the requisite
fee.
   (F)   Each exhibitor shall provide an indemnity bond in the amount of at
least $1,000,000 with surety satisfactory to the Fire Chief or fire prevention
officer and to the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
or the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement
officer, conditioned for the payment of all final judgments that may be
rendered against the exhibitor on account of injury, death, or loss to person
or property emanating from the fireworks exhibitor, or proof of insurance
coverage of at least $1,000,000 for liability arising from injury, death, or
loss of persons or property emanating from the fireworks exhibition. The
legislative authority may require the exhibitor to provide an indemnity bond or
proof of insurance coverage in amounts greater than those required by this
division. The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, or their designee, shall not issue a
permit until the exhibitor provides the bond or proof of the insurance coverage
required by this division or by the legislative authority.
   (G)   Each permit for a fireworks exhibition issued by the Fire Chief or
fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief
law enforcement officer, shall contain a distinct number, designate the
municipality, and identify the certified fire safety inspector, Fire Chief, or
fire prevention officer who will be present before, during, and after the
exhibition, where appropriate. A copy of each permit issued shall be forwarded
by the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, or designee of the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, issuing it to the State Fire Marshal. A
permit is not transferable or assignable.
   (H)   The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, or designee of the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, shall keep a record of issued permits
for fireworks exhibitions. In this list, the Fire Chief, fire prevention
officer, Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or
designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
shall list the name of the exhibitor, his or her license number, the premises
on which the exhibition will be conducted, the date and time of the exhibition,
and the number and political subdivision designation of the permit issued to
the exhibitor for the exhibition.
   (I)   The legislative authority shall require that a certified fire safety
inspector, Fire Chief, or fire prevention officer be present before, during,
and after the exhibition, and shall require the certified fire safety
inspector, Fire Chief, or fire prevention officer to inspect the premises where
the exhibition is to take place and determine whether the exhibition is in
compliance with this chapter and R.C. Chapter 3743.
(R.C. § 3743.54(B) - (F)) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Notice of fireworks incident, see R.C. § 3743.541
§ 91.04 MANUFACTURING OR WHOLESALE SALE WITHOUT A LICENSE; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
knowingly fail to comply with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.05 and 3743.18 or the requirements of R.C. §§ 3743.06
and 3743.19.
   (B)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
fail to maintain complete inventory, wholesale sale, and retail records as
required by R.C. §§ 3743.07 and 3743.20, or to permit an inspection of these
records or the premises of a fireworks plant or the wholesaler pursuant to R.C.
§§ 3743.08 and 3743.21.
   (C)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
fail to comply with an order of the State Fire Marshal issued pursuant to R.C.
§§ 3743.08(B)(1) and 3743.21(B)(1) within the specified period of time.
   (D)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
fail to comply with an order of the State Fire Marshal issued pursuant to R.C.
§§ 3743.08(B)(2) and 3743.21(B)(2) until the nonconformities are eliminated,
corrected, or otherwise remedied or the 72-hour period specified in those
divisions has expired, whichever occurs first.
   (E)   No person shall smoke or shall carry a pipe, cigarette, or cigar, or a
match, lighter, other flame- producing item, or open flame on, or shall carry a
concealed source of ignition into, the premises of a fireworks plant or on the
premises of a wholesaler of fireworks, except as smoking is authorized in
specified lunchrooms or restrooms by a manufacturer or wholesaler pursuant to
R.C. §§ 3743.06(C) or 3743.19(D).
   (F)   No person shall have possession or control of, or be under the
influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer, or controlled substance while on
the premises of the fireworks plant or on the premises of a wholesaler of
fireworks.
   (G)   No licensed manufacturer of fireworks or licensed wholesaler of
fireworks shall negligently fail to furnish a safety pamphlet to a purchaser of
1.4G fireworks as required by R.C. § 3743.47(A).
   (H)   No licensed manufacturer of fireworks or licensed wholesaler of
fireworks shall negligently fail to have safety glasses available for sale as
required by R.C. § 3743.47(B).
(R.C. §§ 3743.60(E) - (L), 3743.61(E) - (L)) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Felony provisions, see R.C. §§ 3743.60(A) through (D) and 3743.61(A) through
(D)
§ 91.05 PURCHASERS TO COMPLY WITH LAW; UNAUTHORIZED PURCHASES.
   (A)   No person who purchases fireworks in this municipality shall obtain
possession of the fireworks in this municipality unless the person complies
with R.C. §§ 3743.44 to 3743.46.
   (B)   Except for the purchase of 1.4G fireworks made under R.C. § 3743.45,
no person who resides in another state and who purchases fireworks in this
state shall obtain possession of fireworks in this state other than from a
licensed manufacturer or wholesaler, or fail, when transporting 1.3G fireworks,
to transport them directly out of this state within 72 hours after the time of
their purchase.
   (C)   No person who purchases fireworks in this state under R.C. § 3743.45
shall give or sell to any other person in this municipality fireworks that the
person has acquired in this state.
(R.C. § 3743.63) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 EXHIBITION WITHOUT A LICENSE; PROHIBITIONS FOR EXHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall fail to comply with the
applicable requirements of the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant
to R.C. § 3743.53(B) and (E) or to comply with R.C. § 3743.53(C) and (D).
   (B)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall conduct a fireworks
exhibition unless a permit has been secured for the exhibition pursuant to R.C.
§ 3743.54 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or if a permit so
secured is revoked by a Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in consultation
with a Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or with a
designee of a Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
pursuant to those sections.
   (C)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall acquire fireworks for use at
a fireworks exhibition other than in accordance with R.C. §§ 3743.54 and
3743.55, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks or other person associated with the
conduct of a fireworks exhibition shall have possession or control of, or be
under the influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer, or controlled substance
while on the premises on which the exhibition is being conducted.
   (E)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall permit an employee to assist
the licensed exhibitor in conducting fireworks exhibitions unless the employee
is registered with the State Fire Marshal under R.C. § 3743.56.
(R.C. § 3743.64(C) - (G)) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Felony provisions, see R.C. § 3743.64(A), (B), and (H)
   Notice of fireworks incident, see R.C. § 3743.541
§ 91.07 UNAUTHORIZED TRANSPORTATION OR SHIPPING.
   (A)   No person shall transport fireworks in this municipality except in
accordance with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. §
3743.58.
   (B)   As used in this division, FIREWORKS includes only 1.3G and 1.4G
fireworks. No person shall ship fireworks into this municipality by mail,
parcel post, or common carrier unless the person possesses a valid shipping
permit issued under R.C. § 3743.40, and the fireworks are shipped directly to
the holder of a license issued under R.C. §§ 3743.03, 3743.16, or 3743.51.
   (C)   No person shall ship fireworks within this municipality by mail,
parcel post, or common carrier unless the fireworks are shipped directly to the
holder of a license issued under R.C. §§ 3743.01, 3743.16, or 3743.51.
(R.C. § 3743.66) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter does not apply to the following:
   (A)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage, or use in
emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling devices and distress signals for
marine, aviation, or highway use;
   (B)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage, or use of
fusees, torpedoes, or other signals necessary for the safe operation of
railroads;
   (C)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage, or use of
blank cartridges in connection with theaters or shows, or in connection with
athletics as signals for ceremonial purposes;
   (D)   The manufacture for, the transportation, storage, possession or use
by, or the sale to the armed forces of the United States and the militia of
this state, as recognized by the Adjutant General of Ohio, of pyrotechnic
devices;
   (E)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage, or use of
toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other devices in which paper or plastic
caps containing 0.25 grains or less of explosive material are used, provided
that they are constructed so that a hand cannot come into contact with a cap
when it is in place for explosion, or apply to the manufacture, sale,
possession, transportation, storage, or use of those caps;
   (F)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage, or use of
novelties and trick noisemakers, auto burglar alarms, or model rockets and
model rocket motors designed, sold, and used for the purpose of propelling
recoverable aero models;
   (G)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage, or use of
wire sparklers; or
   (H)   The conduct of radio-controlled special effect exhibitions that use an
explosive black powder charge of not more than one-quarter pound per charge,
and that are not connected in any manner to propellant charges; provided, that
the exhibition complies with all of the following:
      (1)   No explosive aerial display is conducted in the exhibition;
      (2)   The exhibition is separated from spectators by not less than 200
feet;
      (3)   The person conducting the exhibition complies with regulations of
the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms of the United States Department of
the Treasury and the United States Department of Transportation with respect to
the storage and transport of the explosive black powder used in the exhibition.
(R.C. § 3743.80) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 ARREST OF OFFENDER; SEIZURE AND FORFEITURE OF FIREWORKS; DISTRIBUTION
OF FINES.
   (A)   The Fire Marshal, an assistant fire marshal, or a certified fire
safety inspector may arrest, or may cause the arrest of, any person whom he or
she finds in the act of violating, or who he or she has reasonable cause to
believe has violated, any provision of this subchapter. Any arrest shall be
made in accordance with statutory and constitutional provisions governing
arrests by law enforcement officers.
   (B)   If the Fire Marshal, an assistant fire marshal, or certified fire
safety inspector has probable cause to believe that fireworks are being
manufactured, sold, possessed, transported, or used in violation of this
subchapter, he or she may seize the fireworks. Any seizure of fireworks shall
be made in accordance with statutory and constitutional provisions governing
searches and seizures by law enforcement officers. The Fire Marshal’s office or
certified fire safety inspector’s office shall impound at the site or safely
keep seized fireworks pending the time they are no longer needed as evidence. A
sample of the seized fireworks is sufficient for evidentiary purposes. The
remainder of the seized fireworks may be disposed of pursuant to an order from
a court of competent jurisdiction after notice and a hearing.
   (C)   Fireworks manufactured, sold, possessed, transported, or used in
violation of this subchapter shall be forfeited by the offender. The Fire
Marshal’s office or certified fire safety inspector’s office shall dispose of
seized fireworks pursuant to the procedures specified in R.C. §§ 2981.11 to
2981.13 for the disposal of forfeited property by law enforcement agencies, and
the Fire Marshal or that office is not liable for claims for the loss of or
damages to the seized fireworks.
   (D)   This section does not affect the authority of peace officers, as
defined in R.C. § 2935.01, to make arrests for violations of this subchapter or
to seize fireworks manufactured, sold, possessed, transported, or used in
violation of this subchapter.
   (E)   Any fines imposed for a violation of this subchapter relating to the
sale, purchase, possession, or discharge of fireworks shall be distributed as
set forth in R.C. § 3743.68(D).
(R.C. § 3743.68)
§ 91.10 SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR FIREWORKS SHOWROOM STRUCTURES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as described in division (A)(2) of this section, all
retail sales of 1.4G fireworks by a licensed manufacturer or wholesaler shall
only occur from an approved retail sales showroom on a licensed premises or
from a representative sample showroom as described in this section on a
licensed premises. For the purposes of this section, a retail sale includes the
transfer of the possession of the 1.4G fireworks from the licensed manufacturer
or wholesaler to the purchaser of the fireworks.
      (2)   Sales of 1.4G fireworks to a licensed exhibitor for a properly
permitted exhibition shall occur in accordance with the provisions of the Ohio
Revised Code and rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal under R.C. Chapter
119. Such rules shall specify, at a minimum, that the licensed exhibitor holds
a license under R.C. § 3743.51, that the exhibitor possesses a valid exhibition
permit issued in accordance with R.C. § 3743.54, and that the fireworks shipped
are to be used at the specifically permitted exhibition.
   (B)   All wholesale sales of fireworks by a licensed manufacturer or
wholesaler shall only occur from a licensed premises to persons who intend to
resell the fireworks purchased at wholesale. A wholesale sale by a licensed
manufacturer or wholesaler may occur as follows:
      (1)   The direct sale and shipment of fireworks to a person outside of
this state;
      (2)   From an approved retail sales showroom as described in this
section;
      (3)   From a representative sample showroom as described in this section;
      (4)   By delivery of wholesale fireworks to a purchaser at a licensed
premises outside of a structure or building on that premises. All other
portions of the wholesale sales transaction may occur at any location on a
licensed premises; or
      (5)   Any other method as described in rules adopted by the Fire Marshal
under R.C. Chapter 119.
   (C)   (1)   A licensed manufacturer or wholesaler shall only sell 1.4G
fireworks from a representative sample showroom or a retail sales showroom.
Each licensed premises shall only contain one sales structure.
      (2)   A representative sample showroom shall consist of a structure
constructed and maintained in accordance with the Nonresidential Building Code
adopted under R.C. Chapter 3781 and the Fire Code adopted under R.C. § 3737.82
for a use and occupancy group that permits mercantile sales. A representative
sample showroom shall not contain any pyrotechnics, pyrotechnic materials,
fireworks, explosives, explosive materials, or any similar hazardous materials
or substances. A representative sample showroom shall be used only for the
public viewing of fireworks product representations, including paper materials,
packaging materials, catalogs, photographs, or other similar product
depictions. The delivery of product to a purchaser of fireworks at a licensed
premises that has a representative sample structure shall not occur inside any
structure on a licensed premises. Such product delivery shall occur on the
licensed premises in a manner prescribed by rules adopted by the State Fire
Marshal pursuant to R.C. Chapter 119.
      (3)   If a manufacturer or wholesaler elects to conduct sales from a
retail sales showroom, the showroom structures, to which the public may have
any access and in which employees are required to work, on all licensed
premises, shall comply with the following safety requirements:
         (a)   A fireworks showroom that is constructed or upon which expansion
is undertaken on and after June 30, 1997, shall be equipped with interlinked
fire detection, fire suppression, smoke exhaust, and smoke evacuation systems
that are approved by the Superintendent of Industrial Compliance in the
Department of Commerce.
         (b)   1.   A fireworks showroom that first begins to operate on or
after June 30, 1997, or that resumes operations at any time after a period of
inactive status of licensure greater than one year, and to which the public has
access for retail purposes shall not exceed 7,500 square feet in floor area.
            2.   A fireworks showroom that, through construction of a new
showroom, expansion of an existing showroom, or similar means, first exceeds
5,000 square feet, to which the public has access for retail purposes, after
February 7, 2022, shall be equipped with a sprinkler system that meets the
criteria for sprinkler systems in extra hazard (group 2) occupancies under
"NFPA 13, Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler Systems (2019 Edition)".
            3.   Notwithstanding division (D) of this section, the State Fire
Marshal may provide a variance to the requirements of division (C)(3)(b)2. of
this section pursuant to R.C. § 3743.59 for a sprinkler system that matches or
exceeds the degree of safety provided by a sprinkler system that meets the
criteria for sprinkler systems in extra hazard (group 2) occupancies under
"NFPA 13, Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler Systems (2019 Edition)".
         (c)   A newly constructed or an existing fireworks showroom structure
that exists on September 23, 2008, but that, on or after September 23, 2008, is
altered or added to in a manner requiring the submission of plans, drawings,
specifications, or data pursuant to R.C. § 3791.04, shall comply with a graphic
floor plan layout that is approved by the State Fire Marshal and Superintendent
of Industrial Compliance showing width of aisles, parallel arrangement of
aisles to exits, number of exits per wall, maximum occupancy load, evacuation
plan for occupants, height of storage or display of merchandise, and other
information as may be required by the State Fire Marshal and Superintendent of
Industrial Compliance.
         (d)   A fireworks showroom structure that exists on June 30, 1997,
shall be in compliance on or after June 30, 1997, with floor plans showing
occupancy load limits and internal circulation and egress patterns that are
approved by the State Fire Marshal and Superintendent of Industrial Compliance,
and that are submitted under seal as required by R.C. § 3791.04.
   (D)   The safety requirements established in division (C) of this section
are not subject to any variance, waiver, or exclusion pursuant to this chapter
or any applicable building code.
(R.C. § 3743.25) Penalty, see §
91.99
EXPLOSIVES
§ 91.20 STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES.
   It shall be unlawful to store at any time within the municipality a quantity
of gunpowder or other similar explosive weighing in excess of 100 pounds.
Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Illegal manufacture or processing of explosives, felony provisions, see R.C.
§ 2923.17
§ 91.21 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the municipality without
making application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the Mayor or other
proper municipal officer. The Mayor or other proper municipal officer, before
granting such permit, may require the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify
the municipality and all other persons against injury or damages which might
result from the proposed blasting.
Penalty, see §
91.99
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 91.30 REMOVAL OF FLAMMABLE MATERIALS OR OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Any flammable or combustible materials not arranged or stored in such a
manner as to afford reasonable safety against the danger of fire, or any matter
stored or arranged in such a manner as to impede or prevent access to, or exit
from, any premises in case of fire, shall be ordered by the Fire Chief to be
removed or rearranged in such manner as to eliminate any fire hazard. The order
shall be in writing and delivered to the owner, lessee, or occupant of the
premises.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 PROTECTIVE APPLIANCES.
   If the Fire Chief finds upon inspection that the appliances for protection
against fire are wholly wanting or are inadequate in number, condition, size,
arrangement, or efficiency for the reasonable protection of the premises
against fire, he or she shall cause an order in writing to be delivered to the
owner, lessee, or occupant requiring the installation, replacement, or repair
of appliances adequate for the reasonable protection of the premises in case of
fire.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDER.
   An order to correct the hazardous conditions specified in either §§
91.30 or
91.31 shall be directed to the owner, lessee, or occupant of the premises,
building, or structure, or to the person in control of the articles, material,
goods, wares, or merchandise, or to the owner thereof, as the circumstances may
require. It is made the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of the premises,
building, or structure, and of the person in control of such articles,
materials, goods, wares, and merchandise, or the owner thereof, to comply with
the order with all reasonable dispatch and diligence.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.33 WASTE RECEPTACLES.
   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material of a
similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any other
portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall be
provided for such hazardous materials.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.34 HOTEL TO HAVE FIRE WARNING DEVICE PRODUCING VISIBLE SIGNAL.
   (A)   Every hotel shall have available at least one operational single
station automatic fire warning device approved by the Fire Chief that produces
a visible warning signal when activated by every product of combustion. The
device, at the discretion of the owner, may also be activated by an early
warning fire protection system. Hotels having fewer than 75 rooms shall have at
least one warning device available for its guests. Hotels having more than 75
rooms shall have available for its guests one device for every group of 75
rooms. Upon the request of a guest, such a device, if available, shall be
installed in the guest’s room.
   (B)   As used in this section, HOTEL means every establishment kept, used,
maintained, advertised, or held out to the public to be a place where sleeping
accommodations are offered to guests in which five or more rooms are used for
accommodation of such guests, whether the rooms are in one or several
structures, except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 5739.091.
(R.C. §§ 3781.107, 5739.01(M))
   (C)   Whoever violates the provisions of this section shall be fined not
more than $1,000.
(R.C. §§ 3791.02, 3791.03)
§ 91.35 FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Every building constructed in this municipality with floors used for
human occupancy located more than 75 feet in height above the lower level of
fire department vehicle access shall have a fire suppression system installed
and in operation in conformity with the rules of the state Board of Building
Standards adopted pursuant to R.C. § 3781.10.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEM. A system that includes devices and equipment to
detect a fire, actuates an alarm, and suppress or control a fire.
      HUMAN OCCUPANCY. Does not include floors of buildings where occupancy by
humans is limited to ingress, egress, and limited access for maintenance and
repair.
(R.C. § 3781.108(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates the provisions of this section shall be fined not
more than $1,000.
(R.C. §§ 3791.02, 3791.03)
§ 91.36 VIOLATIONS OF STATE FIRE CODE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly violate any provision of the State Fire Code
or any order made pursuant to it.
(R.C. § 3737.51(A))
   (B)   Except as a violation of R.C. § 2923.17, regarding the felonies of
unlawful possession of a dangerous ordnance and illegal manufacture or
processing of explosives, involves subject matter covered by the State Fire
Code, whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
(R.C. § 3737.99(B))
Statutory reference:
   Fire Code violations, see R.C. §§ 3737.41 et seq.
   Ohio Fire Code, see O.A.C. Chapter 1301:7-7
§ 91.37 POSTING ARSON NOTICES IN HOTELS, MOTELS, AND OTHER PLACES.
   (A)   The owner, operator, or lessee of any hotel, motel, or transient
residential building shall post the provisions of R.C. §§ 2909.02 and 2909.03,
regarding aggravated arson and arson, in a conspicuous place in each room
occupied by guests in such building. The owner, operator, or lessee of any
nontransient residential building, institution, school, or place of assembly
shall post the provisions of such sections in conspicuous places upon such
premises. No person shall fail to comply with this section.
(R.C. § 3737.61)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3737.99(C))
§ 91.38 NEGLIGENT BURNING.
   (A)   No person shall set, kindle, or cause to be set or kindled any fire
which, through his or her negligence, spreads beyond its immediate confines to
any structure, field, or wooded lot.
(R.C. § 3737.62)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 3737.99(D))
Cross-reference:
   Arson, see §
131.02
§ 91.39 SPREADING ALARM OF UNFRIENDLY FIRE.
   (A)   The owner, operator, or lessee, an employee of any owner, operator, or
lessee, an occupant, and any person in direct control of any building regulated
under the State Building Code, upon the discovery of an unfriendly fire, or
upon receiving information that there is an unfriendly fire upon the premises,
shall immediately, and with all reasonable dispatch and diligence, call or
otherwise notify the Fire Department concerning the fire, and shall spread an
alarm immediately to all occupants of the building.
   (B)   As used in this section, UNFRIENDLY FIRE means a fire of a destructive
nature as distinguished from a controlled fire intended for a beneficial
purpose.
(R.C. § 3737.63)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 3737.99(E))
§ 91.40 UNVENTED HEATERS.
   (A)   The use of a brazier, salamander, space heater, room heater, furnace,
water heater, or other burner or heater using wood, coal, coke, fuel oil,
kerosene, gasoline, natural gas, liquid petroleum gas, or similar fuel, and
tending to give off carbon monoxide or other harmful gases must comply with the
following provisions.
      (1)   When used in living quarters, or in any enclosed building or space
in which persons are usually present, shall be used with a flue or vent so
designed, installed, and maintained as to vent the products of combustion
outdoors; except in storage, factory, or industrial buildings which are
provided with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide
poisoning.
      (2)   When used as a portable or temporary burner or heater at a
construction site, or in a warehouse, shed, or structure in which persons are
temporarily present, shall be vented as provided in division (A)(1) or used
with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide poisoning.
   (B)   This section does not apply to domestic ranges, laundry stoves, gas
logs installed in a fireplace with an adequate flue, or hot plates, unless the
same are used as space or room heaters.
   (C)   No person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in
charge, or occupant of premises, negligently permit the use of a burner or
heater in violation of the standards for venting and ventilation provided in
this section.
   (D)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any kerosene-fired
space or room heater that is equipped with an automatic extinguishing tip-over
device, or to any natural gas-fired or liquid petroleum gas-fired space or room
heater that is equipped with an oxygen depletion safety shut-off system, and
that has its fuel piped from a source outside the building in which it is
located, that are approved by an authoritative source recognized by the State
Fire Marshal in the State Fire Code adopted by him or her under R.C. § 3737.82.
   (E)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules to ensure the safe use of
unvented kerosene, natural gas, or liquid petroleum gas heaters exempted from
division (A) of this section when used in assembly buildings, business
buildings, high hazard buildings, institutional buildings, mercantile
buildings, and type R-1 and R-2 residential buildings, as these groups of
buildings are defined in rules adopted by the Board of Building Standards under
R.C. § 3781.10. No person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in
charge, or occupant of premises, negligently permit the use of a heater in
violation of any rules adopted under this division.
   (F)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules prescribing standards for
written instructions containing ventilation requirements and warning of any
potential fire hazards that may occur in using a kerosene, natural gas, or
liquid petroleum gas heater. No person shall sell or offer for sale any
kerosene, natural gas, or liquid petroleum gas heater unless the manufacturer
provides with the heater written instructions that comply with any rules
adopted under this division.
   (G)   No product labeled as a fuel additive for kerosene heaters and having
a flash point below 100°F or 37.8°C shall be sold, offered for sale, or used in
any kerosene space heater.
   (H)   No device that prohibits any safety feature on a kerosene, natural
gas, or liquid petroleum gas space heater from operating shall be sold, offered
for sale, or used in connection with any kerosene, natural gas, or liquid
petroleum gas space heater.
   (I)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any kerosene-fired, natural
gas, or liquid petroleum gas- fired heater that is not exempt from division (A)
of this section, unless it is marked conspicuously by the manufacturer on the
container with the phrase “Not Approved For Home Use”.
   (J)   No person shall use a cabinet-type, liquid petroleum gas-fired heater
having a fuel source within the heater, inside any building, except as
permitted by the State Fire Marshal in the State Fire Code adopted by him or
her under R.C. § 3737.82.
(R.C. § 3701.82)
   (K)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 3701.99(B))
OPEN BURNING
§ 91.55 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AGRICULTURAL WASTE. Any waste material generated by crop, horticultural,
or livestock production practices, and includes such items as woody debris and
plant matter from stream flooding, bags, cartons, structural materials, and
landscape wastes that are generated in agricultural activities, but does not
include land clearing waste; buildings (including dismantled/fallen barns);
garbage; dead animals; animal waste; motor vehicles and parts thereof; nor
economic poisons and containers thereof, unless the manufacturer has identified
open burning as a safe disposal procedure.
      AIR CURTAIN BURNER. An engineered apparatus consisting of a motorized
high-velocity fan and an air distribution system designed to aid in the
efficient combustion of materials placed in a manufactured steel structure and
for which a permit-to-install has been obtained as required in O.A.C. Chapter
3745-31 and a permit-to-operate has been obtained as required in O.A.C. Chapter
3745-77.
      AIR CURTAIN DESTRUCTOR. An engineered apparatus consisting of a motorized
high- velocity fan and an air distribution system designed to aid in the
efficient combustion of materials placed in an adjacent pit. An air curtain
burner may be used in place of an air curtain destructor, but an air curtain
destructor may not be used in place of an air curtain burner.
      ECONOMIC POISONS. Include, but are not restricted to, pesticides such as
insecticides, fungicides, rodenticides, miticides, nematocides and fumigants;
herbicides; seed disinfectants; and defoliants.
      EMERGENCY BURNING. The burning of clean wood waste or deceased animals
caused by a natural disaster or an uncontrolled event such as the following:
         (a)   A tornado;
         (b)   High winds;
         (c)   An earthquake;
         (d)   An explosion;
         (e)   A flood; or
         (f)   A hail storm, a rain storm, or an ice storm.
      GARBAGE. Any waste material resulting from the handling, processing,
preparation, cooking, and consumption of food or food products.
      INHABITED BUILDING. Any inhabited private dwelling house and any public
structure which may be used as a place of resort, assembly, education,
entertainment, lodging, trade, manufacture, repair, storage, traffic, or
occupancy by the public. Examples would include, but are not limited to,
highway rest stops, restaurants, motels, hotels and gas stations.
      LAND CLEARING WASTE. Plant waste material which is removed from land,
including plant waste material removed from stream banks during projects
involving more than one property owner, for the purpose of rendering the land
useful for residential, commercial, or industrial development. LAND CLEARING
WASTE also includes the plant waste material generated during the clearing of
land for new agricultural development.
      LANDSCAPE WASTE. Any plant waste material, except garbage, including
trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds, leaves, grass,
shrubbery, yard trimmings, and crop residues.
      OHIO EPA. The Ohio Environmental Protection Agency Director or agencies
delegated authority by the Director of the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
pursuant to R.C. § 3704.03 or the Chief of any Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency District Office.
      OPEN BURNING. The burning of any materials wherein air contaminants
resulting from combustion are emitted directly into the ambient air without
passing through a stack or chimney. Open burning includes the burning of any
refuse or salvageable material in any device not subject to or designed
specifically to comply with the requirements of O.A.C. 3745-17-09 or O.A.C.
3745-17-10.
      RESIDENTIAL WASTE. Any waste material, including landscape waste,
generated on the property of a one-, two-, or three-family residence as a
result of residential activities, but not including garbage, rubber, grease,
asphalt, liquid petroleum products, or plastics.
      RESTRICTED AREA. The area within the boundary of the municipality, plus a
zone extending 1,000 feet beyond the boundaries of a municipality having a
population of 1,000 to 10,000 persons and a zone extending one mile beyond any
municipality having a population of 10,000 persons or more according to the
latest federal census.
      UNRESTRICTED AREA. All areas outside the boundaries of a restricted area
as defined in this section.
   (B)   Referenced materials. This subchapter includes references to certain
matter or materials. The text of the referenced materials is not included in
the legislation contained in this subchapter. Information on the availability
of the referenced materials as well as the date of, and/or the particular
edition or version of the material is included in this legislation. For
materials subject to change, only the specific versions specified in this
legislation are referenced. Material is referenced as it exists on the
effective date of this legislation. Except for subsequent annual publication of
existing (unmodified) Code of Federal Regulation compilations, any amendment or
revision to a referenced document is not applicable unless and until this
section has been amended to specify the new dates.
      (1)   Availability. The referenced materials are available as follows.
         (a)   Clean Air Act. Information and copies may be obtained by writing
to: Superintendent of Documents, Attn: New Orders, PO Box 371954, Pittsburgh,
PA 15250-7954. The full text of the Act as amended in 1990 is also available in
electronic format at www.epa.gov/oar/caa/. A copy of the Act is also available
for inspection and use at most public libraries and the State Library of Ohio.
         (b)   Code of Federal Regulations (C.F.R.). Information and copies may
be obtained by writing to: Superintendent of Documents, Attn: New Orders, PO
Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954. The full text of the C.F.R. is also
available in electronic format at http://www.ecfr.gov. The C.F.R. compilations
are also available for inspection and use at most public libraries and the
State Library of Ohio.
         (c)   National Fire Protection Association. Information on the
National Fire Protection Association codes may be obtained by contacting the
Association at 1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, Massachusetts 02169-7471, 617-770-
3000. Codes may be ordered at www.nfpa.org/catalog/home/index.asp. Copies of
the code exist or are available at most public libraries and the State Library
of Ohio.
      (2)   Referenced materials.
         (a)   40 C.F.R. § 60.2974: “Am I required to apply for and obtain a
title V operating permit for my air curtain incinerator that burns only wood
waste, clean lumber, and yard waste?” as published in the July 1, 2012 Code of
Federal Regulations.
         (b)   40 C.F.R. § 60.3069: “Am I required to apply for and obtain a
title V operating permit for my air curtain incinerator that burns only wood
waste, clean lumber, and yard waste?” as published in the July 1, 2012 Code of
Federal Regulations.
         (c)   NFPA publication 1403: “Standard on Live Fire Training
Evolutions, Chapter 4, Acquired Structures” published April 30, 2007.
         (d)   Section 129 of the Clean Air Act, contained in 42 U.S.C. § 7429:
“Solid waste combustion” published January 2, 2006 in Supplement V of the 2000
Edition of the United States Code.
(O.A.C. § 3745-19-01)
§ 91.56 RELATIONS TO OTHER PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any provision in O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19, no open
burning shall be conducted in an area where an air alert, warning, or emergency
under O.A.C. Chapter 3745-25 is in effect.
   (B)   No provisions of O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19 permitting open burning, and
no permission to open burn granted by the Ohio EPA, shall exempt any person
from compliance with any section of the Ohio Revised Code, or any regulation of
any state department, or any local ordinance or regulation dealing with open
burning.
(O.A.C. § 3745-19-02) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.57 OPEN BURNING IN RESTRICTED AREAS.
   (A)   No person or property owner shall cause or allow open burning in a
restricted area except as provided in divisions (B) to (D) of this section or
in R.C. § 3704.11.
   (B)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes without
notification to or permission from the Ohio EPA:
      (1)   Heating tar, welding, acetylene torches, highway safety flares,
heating for warmth of outdoor workers and strikers, smudge pots, and similar
occupational needs.
      (2)   Bonfires, campfires, and outdoor fireplace equipment, whether for
cooking food for human consumption, pleasure, religious, ceremonial, warmth,
recreational, or similar purposes, if the following conditions are met:
         (a)   They are fueled with clean seasoned firewood, natural gas or
equivalent, or any clean burning fuel with emissions that are equivalent to or
lower than those created from the burning of seasoned firewood;
         (b)   They are not used for waste disposal purposes; and
         (c)   They shall have a total fuel area of three feet or less in
diameter and two feet or less in height.
      (3)   Disposal of hazardous explosive materials, military munitions, or
explosive devices that require immediate action to prevent endangerment of
human health, public safety, property or the environment and that are excluded
from the requirement to obtain a hazardous waste permit pursuant to O.A.C.
3745-50-45(D)(1)(d).
      (4)   Recognized training in the use of fire extinguishers for commercial
or industrial fire prevention.
      (5)   Fires set at the direction of federal, state, and local law
enforcement officials for the purpose of destruction of cannabis sativa
(marijuana) plant vegetation, processed marijuana material and/or other drugs
seized by federal, state, or local law enforcement officials.
      (6)   Fires allowed by divisions (B)(1), (B)(2), and (B)(4) of this
section shall not be used for waste disposal purposes and shall be of minimum
size sufficient for their intended purpose; the fuel shall be chosen to
minimize the generation and emission of air contaminants.
   (C)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes with prior
notification to the Ohio EPA in accordance with §
91.58(B).
      (1)   Prevention or control of disease or pests, with written or verbal
verification to the Ohio EPA from the Ohio Department of Health or local health
department, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, cooperative
extension service, Ohio Department of Agriculture, or U.S. Department of
Agriculture, that open burning is the only appropriate disposal method.
      (2)   Bonfires or campfires used for ceremonial purposes that do not meet
the requirements of division (B)(2) of this section, provided the following
conditions are met:
         (a)   They have a total fuel area no greater than five feet in
diameter by five feet in height and burn no longer than three hours;
         (b)   They are not used for waste disposal purposes; and
         (c)   They are fueled with clean seasoned firewood, natural gas or
equivalent, or any clean burning fuel with emissions that are equivalent to or
lower than those created from the burning of seasoned firewood.
      (3)   Disposal of agricultural waste generated on the premises if the
following conditions are observed:
         (a)   The fire is set only when atmospheric conditions will readily
dissipate contaminants;
         (b)   The fire does not create a visibility hazard on the roadways,
railroad tracks, or air fields;
         (c)   The fire is located at a point on the premises no less than
1,000 feet from any inhabited building not located on said premises;
         (d)   The wastes are stacked and dried to provide the best practicable
condition for efficient burning; and
         (e)   No materials are burned which contain rubber, grease, asphalt,
liquid petroleum products, plastics, or building materials.
   (D)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes upon receipt
of written permission from the Ohio EPA, in accordance with §
91.58(A), provided that any conditions specified in the permission are
followed:
      (1)   Disposal of ignitable or explosive materials where the Ohio EPA
determines that there is no practical alternate method of disposal, excluding
those materials identified in division (B)(3) of this section;
      (2)   Instruction in methods of fire fighting or for research in the
control of fires as recognized by the State Fire Marshal Division of the Ohio
Department of Commerce and the guidelines set forth in the National Fire
Protection Association’s (NFPA) publication 1403, Standard on Live Fire
Training Evolutions, Chapter 4, Acquired Structures, provided that the
application required in §
91.58(A)(1) is submitted by the commercial or public entity responsible for the
instruction;
      (3)   In emergency or other extraordinary circumstances for any purpose
determined to be necessary by the Director and performed as identified in the
appendix to O.A.C. 3745-19-03. If deemed necessary, the open burning may be
authorized with prior oral approval by the Director followed by the issuance of
a written permission to open burn within seven working days of the oral
approval;
      (4)   Recognized horticultural, silvicultural (forestry), range, or
wildlife management practices; and
      (5)   Fires and/or pyrotechnic effects, for purposes other than waste
disposal, set as part of commercial film-making or video production activities
for motion pictures and television.
(O.A.C. § 3745-19-03) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.58 PERMISSION AND NOTICE TO OPEN BURN.
   (A)   Permission.
      (1)   An application for permission to open burn shall be submitted in
writing to Ohio EPA. The applicant shall allow Ohio EPA at least ten working
days to review the permit. Applicant may proceed with burn upon receipt of
written permission from Ohio EPA. Saturday, Sunday, and legal holidays shall
not be considered working days. The application shall be in such form and
contain such information as required by the Ohio EPA.
      (2)   Except as provided in divisions (A)(6) and (A)(7) of this section,
such applications shall contain, as a minimum, information regarding:
         (a)   The purpose of the proposed burning;
         (b)   The quantity or acreage and the nature of the materials to be
burned;
         (c)   The date or dates when such burning will take place;
         (d)   The location of the burning site, including a map showing
distances to residences, populated areas, roadways, air fields, and other
pertinent landmarks; and
         (e)   The methods or actions which will be taken to reduce the
emissions of air contaminants.
      (3)   Permission to open burn shall not be granted unless the applicant
demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Ohio EPA that open burning is necessary
to the public interest; will be conducted in a time, place, and manner as to
minimize the emission of air contaminants, when atmospheric conditions are
appropriate; and will have no serious detrimental effect upon adjacent
properties or the occupants thereof. The Ohio EPA may impose such conditions as
may be necessary to accomplish the purpose of O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (A)(6) of this section, permission
to open burn must be obtained for each specific project. In emergencies where
public health or environmental quality will be seriously threatened by delay
while written permission is sought, the fire may be set with oral permission of
the Ohio EPA.
      (5)   Violations of any of the conditions set forth by the Ohio EPA in
granting permission to open burn shall be grounds for revocation of such
permission and refusal to grant future permission, as well as for the
imposition of other sanctions provided by law.
      (6)   The Ohio Department of Commerce, Division of State Fire Marshal,
may request permission to open burn on an annual basis for the purpose of
training firefighters on pre-flashover conditions using the Ohio Fire Academy’s
mobile training laboratory at either the academy or at other training sites in
Ohio. The annual application required pursuant to division (A)(1) of this
section shall contain information as required in division (A)(2) of this
section, except the information required in divisions (A)(2)(c) and (A)(2)(d)
of this section need not be provided unless it is available at the time of
submittal of the application. The Academy shall contact the appropriate Ohio
EPA District Office or local air agency at least five working days before each
training session of the date or dates when the training session will take place
and its location. Saturday, Sunday, and legal holidays shall not be considered
a working day.
      (7)   For open burning defined under paragraph §
91.57(D)(2) and O.A.C. 3745-19-04(C)(2), permission to open burn shall not be
granted unless the applicant provides proof of written notice of intent to
demolish received by the appropriate Ohio EPA field office in accordance with
O.A.C. 3745-20-03.
   (B)   Notification.
      (1)   Notification shall be submitted in writing at least ten working
days before the fire is to be set. Saturday, Sunday, and legal holidays shall
not be considered a working day. It shall be in such form and contain such
information as shall be required by the Ohio EPA.
      (2)   Such notification shall inform the Ohio EPA regarding:
         (a)   The purpose of the proposed burning;
         (b)   The nature and quantities of materials to be burned;
         (c)   The date or dates when such burning will take place; and
         (d)   The location of the burning site.
      (3)   The Ohio EPA, after receiving notification, may determine that the
open burning is not allowed under O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19 and the Ohio EPA shall
notify the applicant to this effect.
(O.A.C. § 3745-19-05) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another
penalty is not specifically provided shall be subject to the penalty as
provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of
this section, whoever violates any provisions of §§
91.01 through
91.08 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of R.C. §§ 3743.60(I) or 3743.61(I), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a violation of §
91.04(E) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates §
91.06(A) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to any
other penalties that may be imposed on a licensed exhibitor of fireworks under
this division and unless the third sentence of this division applies, the
person’s license as an exhibitor of fireworks or as an assistant exhibitor of
fireworks shall be suspended. If the violation of §
91.06(A) results in serious physical harm to persons or serious physical harm
to property, the person’s license as an exhibitor of fireworks or as an
assistant exhibitor of fireworks shall be revoked.
      (4)   Whoever violates §
91.02(F) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. Notwithstanding any
other provision of law to the contrary, a person may be convicted at the same
trial or proceeding of a violation of §
91.02(F) and a violation of R.C. § 2917.11(B), or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, that constitutes the basis of the charge of the violation
of §
91.02(F).
      (5)   Whoever violates §
91.04(G) or (H) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (6)   Whoever violates §
91.02(G) is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3743.99(C), (D), (F) - (H))
Statutory reference:
   Civil penalties for violations of State Fire Code, see R.C. § 3737.51(B)
through (H)
CHAPTER 92: INTOXICATING LIQUORS
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Exemptions from chapter
   
92.03   Restrictions applicable to sale of beer and intoxicating liquor for
consumption on the premises
   
92.04   Restrictions on sale of beer and liquor
   
92.05   Permit required; activities prohibited without permit
   
92.06   Illegal transportation prohibited
   
92.07   Open container prohibited; exception
   
92.08   Underage person shall not purchase intoxicating liquor or beer
   
92.09   Prohibitions; minors under 18 years; low-alcohol beverages
   
92.10   Alcohol vaporizing devices prohibited
   
92.11   Misrepresentation to obtain alcoholic beverage for a minor prohibited
   
92.12   Misrepresentation by a minor under 21 years
   
92.13   Sale to underage persons prohibited
   
92.14   Posting of card
   
92.15   Good faith acceptances of spurious identification
   
92.16   Consumption in motor vehicle prohibited
   
92.17   Hours of sale or consumption
   
92.18   Obstructing search of premises prohibited
   
92.19   Illegal possession of intoxicating liquor prohibited
   
92.20   Sale or possession of diluted liquor and refilled containers prohibited
   
92.21   Keeping place where beer or intoxicating liquors are sold in violation
of law
   
92.22   Intoxicating liquors shall not be sold in brothels
   
92.23   Use of intoxicating liquor in a public dance hall prohibited;
exceptions
   
92.24   Poisonously adulterated liquors
   
92.25   Tavern keeper permitting rioting or drunkenness
   
92.26   Notice of action to prohibit liquor business
   
92.27   Procedure when injunction violated
   
92.28   Liquor transaction scans
   
92.29   Affirmative defenses
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Driving while intoxicated or drugged, implied consent, see §§
73.01 and
73.02
Statutory reference:
   Liquor permits, see R.C. Chapter 4303
   Local option elections, see R.C. §§ 4301.32 et seq.
   Use of license to violate liquor laws; suspension; procedures, see R.C. §
4510.33
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, whether rectified or diluted with water or not,
whatever its origin may be, and includes synthetic ethyl alcohol. The term does
not include denatured alcohol and wood alcohol.
   AT RETAIL. For use or consumption by the purchaser and not for resale.
   BEER.
      (1)   Includes all beverages brewed or fermented wholly or in part from
malt products and containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume.
      (2)   Beer, regardless of the percent of alcohol by volume, is not
intoxicating liquor for purposes of this code, the Ohio Revised Code, or any
rules adopted under it.
   CIDER. All liquids that are fit to use for beverage purposes that contain
0.5% of alcohol by volume, but not more than 6% of alcohol by weight that are
made through the normal alcoholic fermentation of the juice of sound, ripe
apples, including, without limitation, flavored, sparkling, or carbonated cider
and cider made from pure condensed apple must.
   CLUB. A corporation or association of individuals organized in good faith
for social, recreational, benevolent, charitable, fraternal, political,
patriotic, or athletic purposes, which is the owner, lessor, or occupant of a
permanent building or part of a permanent building operated solely for such
purposes, membership in which entails the prepayment of regular dues, and
includes the place so operated.
   COMMUNITY FACILITY. Means either of the following:
      (1)   Any convention, sports or entertainment facility or complex, or any
combination of these, that is used by or accessible to the general public and
that is owned or operated in whole or in part by the state, a state agency, or
a political subdivision of the state or that is leased from, or located on
property owned by or leased from, the state, a state agency, a political
subdivision of the state, or a convention facilities authority created pursuant
to R.C. § 351.02;
      (2)   An area designated as a community entertainment district pursuant
to R.C. § 4301.80.
   CONTROLLED ACCESS ALCOHOL AND BEVERAGE CABINET. A closed container, either
refrigerated, in whole or in part, or nonrefrigerated, access to the interior
of which is restricted by means of a device that requires the use of a key,
magnetic card, or similar device and from which beer, intoxicating liquor,
other beverages, or food may be sold.
   HOTEL. The same meaning as in R.C. § 3731.01, subject to the exceptions
mentioned in R.C. § 3731.03.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR and LIQUOR. All liquids and compounds, other than beer,
containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume which are fit to use for beverage
purposes, from whatever source and by whatever process produced, by whatever
name called, and whether they are medicated, proprietary, or patented. The
terms include cider and alcohol, and all solids and confections which contain
0.5% or more of alcohol by volume.
   LOW-ALCOHOL BEVERAGE. Any brewed or fermented malt product or any product
made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits, or other agricultural
products that contains either no alcohol or less than 0.5% of alcohol by
volume. The beverages described in this definition do not include a soft drink
such as root beer, birch beer, or ginger beer.
   MANUFACTURE. All processes by which beer or intoxicating liquor is produced,
whether by distillation, rectifying, fortifying, blending, fermentation,
brewing, or in any other manner.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person engaged in the business of manufacturing beer or
intoxicating liquor.
   MIXED BEVERAGES. Includes bottled and prepared cordials, cocktails,
highballs, and solids and confections that are obtained by mixing any type of
whiskey, neutral spirits, brandy, gin or other distilled spirits with, or over,
carbonated or plain water, pure juices from flowers and plants, and other
flavoring materials. The completed product shall contain not less than 0.5% of
alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume. The phrase
includes the contents of a pod.
   NIGHTCLUB. A place habitually operated for profit, where food is served for
consumption on the premises, and one or more forms of amusement are provided or
permitted for a consideration that may be in the form of a cover charge or may
be included in the price of the food and beverages, or both, purchased by
patrons.
   PERSON. Includes firms and corporations.
   PHARMACY. An establishment as defined in R.C. § 4729.01, that is under the
management or control of a licensed pharmacist in accordance with R.C. §
4729.27.
   POD. Means a sealed capsule made from plastic, glass, aluminum, or a
combination thereof to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The capsule contains intoxicating liquor of more than 21% of
alcohol by volume.
      (2)   The capsule also contains a concentrated flavoring mixture.
      (3)   The contents of the capsule are not readily accessible or intended
for consumption unless certain manufacturer’s processing instructions are
followed.
      (4)   The instructions include releasing the contents of the capsule
through a machine specifically designed to process the contents.
      (5)   After being properly processed according to the manufacturer’s
instructions, the final product produced from the capsule contains not less
than 0.5% of alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume.
   RESTAURANT. A place located in a permanent building provided with space and
accommodations wherein, in consideration of the payment of money, hot meals are
habitually prepared, sold, and served at noon and evening, as the principal
business of the place. The term does not include pharmacies, confectionery
stores, lunch stands, nightclubs, and filling stations.
   SALE and SELL. The exchange, barter, gift, offer for sale, sale,
distribution, and delivery of any kind, and the transfer of title or possession
of beer and intoxicating liquor either by constructive or actual delivery by
any means or devices whatever, including the sale of beer or intoxicating
liquor by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet pursuant to
R.C. § 4301.21. Such terms do not include the mere solicitation of orders for
beer or intoxicating liquor from the holders of permits issued by the Division
of Liquor Control authorizing the sale of the beer or intoxicating liquor, but
no solicitor shall solicit any orders until the solicitor has been registered
with the Division pursuant to R.C. § 4303.25.
   SALES AREA OR TERRITORY. An exclusive geographic area or territory that is
assigned to a particular A or B permit holder and that either has one or more
political subdivisions as its boundaries or consists of an area of land with
readily identifiable geographic boundaries. The term does not include, however,
any particular retail location in an exclusive geographic area or territory
that had been assigned to another A or B permit holder before April 9, 2001.
   SEALED CONTAINER. Any container having a capacity of not more than 128 fluid
ounces, the opening of which is closed to prevent the entrance of air.
   SPIRITUOUS LIQUOR. All intoxicating liquors containing more than 21% of
alcohol by volume. The phrase does not include the contents of a pod.
   VEHICLE. All means of transportation by land, by water, or by air, and
everything made use of in any way for such transportation.
   WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTOR and DISTRIBUTOR. A person engaged in the business of
selling to retail dealers for purposes of resale.
   WINE. All liquids fit to use for beverage purposes containing not less than
0.5% of alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume, that is
made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits, or other agricultural
products. The term includes cider, except as used in R.C. §§ 4301.13, 4301.421,
4301.422, 4301.432, and 4301.44, and, for purposes of determining the rate of
the tax that applies, R.C. § 4301.43(B), the term does not include cider.
(R.C. §§ 4301.01, 4301.244)
§ 92.02 EXEMPTIONS FROM CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter do not prevent the following:
   (A)   The storage of intoxicating liquor in bonded warehouses, established
in accordance with the Acts of Congress and under the regulation of the United
States, located in the municipality, or the transportation of intoxicating
liquor to or from bonded warehouses of the United States wherever located.
   (B)   A bona fide resident of this state who is the owner of a warehouse
receipt from obtaining or transporting to the resident’s residence for the
resident’s own consumption and not for resale spirituous liquor stored in a
government bonded warehouse in this state or in another state prior to December
1933, subject to such terms as are prescribed by the Division of Liquor
Control.
   (C)   The manufacture of cider from fruit for the purpose of making vinegar,
and nonintoxicating cider and fruit juices for use and sale.
   (D)   A licensed physician or dentist from administering or dispensing
intoxicating liquor or alcohol to a patient in good faith in the actual course
of the practice of the physician’s or dentist’s profession.
   (E)   The sale of alcohol to physicians, dentists, druggists, veterinary
surgeons, manufacturers, hospitals, infirmaries, or medical or educational
institutions using the alcohol for medicinal, mechanical, chemical or
scientific purposes.
   (F)   The sale, gift, or keeping for sale by druggists and others of any of
the medicinal preparations manufactured in accordance with the formulas
prescribed by the United States Pharmacopoeia and National Formulary, patent or
proprietary preparations, and other bona fide medicinal and technical
preparations, which contain no more alcohol than is necessary to hold the
medicinal agents in solution and to preserve the same, which are manufactured
and sold as medicines and not as beverages, are unfit for use for beverage
purposes, and the sale of which does not require the payment of a United States
liquor dealer’s tax.
   (G)   The manufacture and sale of tinctures or of toilet, medicinal and
antiseptic preparations and solutions not intended for internal human use nor
to be sold as beverages, and which are unfit for beverage purposes, if upon the
outside of each bottle, box, or package of which there is printed in English,
conspicuously and legibly, the quantity by volume of alcohol in the preparation
or solution.
   (H)   The manufacture and keeping for sale of the food products known as
flavoring extracts when manufactured and sold for cooking, culinary or
flavoring purposes, and which are unfit for use for beverage purposes.
   (I)   The lawful sale of wood alcohol or of ethyl alcohol for external use
when combined with other substances as to make it unfit for internal use.
   (J)   The manufacture, sale, and transport of ethanol or ethyl alcohol for
use as fuel. As used in this division, ETHANOL has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 122.075.
   (K)   The purchase and importation into the municipality or the purchase at
wholesale from A or B permit holders in this state of beer and intoxicating
liquor for use in manufacturing processes of nonbeverage food products under
terms prescribed by the Division, provided that the terms prescribed by the
Division shall not increase the cost of the beer or intoxicating liquor to any
person, firm or corporation purchasing and importing it into this municipality
or purchasing it from an A or B permit holder for that use.
   (L)   Any resident of this state or any member of the armed forces of the
United States who has attained the age of 21 years from bringing into this
municipality for personal use and not for resale not more than one liter of
spirituous liquor, 4.5 liters of wine, or 288 ounces of beer in any 30-day
period, and the same is free of any tax consent fee when the resident or member
of the armed forces physically possesses and accompanies the spirituous liquor,
wine or beer on returning from a foreign country, another state, or an insular
possession of the United States.
   (M)   Persons at least 21 years of age who collect ceramic commemorative
bottles containing spirituous liquor that have unbroken federal tax stamps on
them from selling or trading the bottles to other collectors. The bottles shall
originally have been purchased at retail from the Division, legally imported
under division (L) of this section, or legally imported pursuant to a supplier
registration issued by the Division. The sales shall be for the purpose of
exchanging a ceramic commemorative bottle between private collectors and shall
not be for the purpose of selling the spirituous liquor for personal
consumption. The sale or exchange authorized by this division shall not occur
on the premises of any permit holder, shall not be made in connection with the
business of any permit holder, and shall not be made in connection with any
mercantile business.
   (N)   The sale of beer or intoxicating liquor without a liquor permit at a
private residence, not more than five times per calendar year at a residence
address, at an event that has the following characteristics:
      (1)   The event is for a charitable, benevolent, or political purpose,
but shall not include any event the proceeds of which are for the profit or
gain of any individual;
      (2)   The event has in attendance not more than 50 people;
      (3)   The event shall be for a period not to exceed 12 hours;
      (4)   The sale of beer and intoxicating liquor at the event shall not
take place between 2:30 a.m. and 5:30 a.m.;
      (5)   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase or consume beer or
intoxicating liquor at the event and no beer or intoxicating liquor shall be
sold to any person under 21 years of age at the event; and
      (6)   No person at the event shall sell or furnish beer or intoxicating
liquor to an intoxicated person.
   (O)   The possession or consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor by a
person who is under 21 years of age and who is a student at an accredited
college or university, provided that both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person is required to taste and expectorate the beer or
intoxicating liquor for a culinary, food service, or hospitality course.
      (2)   The person is under the direct supervision of the instructor of the
culinary, food service, or hospitality course.
(R.C. § 4301.20)
§ 92.03 RESTRICTIONS APPLICABLE TO SALE OF BEER AND INTOXICATING LIQUOR FOR
CONSUMPTION ON THE PREMISES.
   (A)   The sale of beer or intoxicating liquor for consumption on the
premises is subject to the following restrictions, in addition to those imposed
by the rules and orders of the Division of Liquor Control:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter
4301, beer or intoxicating liquor may be served to a person not seated at a
table unless there is reason to believe that the beer or intoxicating liquor so
served will be consumed by a person under 21 years of age.
      (2)   Beer or intoxicating liquor may be served by a hotel in the room of
a bona fide guest, and may be sold by a hotel holding a D-5a permit, or a hotel
holding a D-3 or D-5 permit that otherwise meets all of the requirements for
holding a D-5a permit, by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage
cabinet that shall be located only in the hotel room of a registered guest. A
hotel may sell beer or intoxicating liquor as authorized by its permit to a
registered guest by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet
in accordance with the following requirements:
         (a)   Only a person 21 years of age or older who is a guest registered
to stay in a guestroom shall be provided a key, magnetic card, or other similar
device necessary to obtain access to the contents of a controlled access
alcohol and beverage cabinet in that guestroom.
         (b)   The hotel shall comply with R.C. § 4301.22, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, in connection with the handling, restocking,
and replenishing of the beer and intoxicating liquor in the controlled access
alcohol and beverage cabinet.
         (c)   The hotel shall replenish or restock beer and intoxicating
liquor in any controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet only during the
hours during which the hotel may serve or sell beer and intoxicating liquor.
         (d)   The registered guest shall verify in writing that the guest has
read and understands the language that shall be posted on the controlled access
alcohol and beverage cabinet as required by division (A)(2)(e) of this section.
         (e)   A hotel authorized to sell beer and intoxicating liquor pursuant
to this division (A)(2), shall post on the controlled access alcohol and
beverage cabinet, in conspicuous language, the following notice:
The alcoholic beverages contained in this cabinet shall not be removed from the
premises.
         (f)   The hotel shall maintain a record of each sale of beer or
intoxicating liquor made by the hotel by means of a controlled access alcohol
and beverage cabinet for any period in which the permit holder is authorized to
hold the permit pursuant to R.C. §§ 4303.26 and 4303.27 and any additional
period during which an applicant exercises its right to appeal a rejection by
the Division of Liquor Control to renew a permit pursuant to R.C. § 4303.271.
The records maintained by the hotel shall comply with both of the following:
            1.   Include the name, address, age, and signature of each hotel
guest who is provided access by the hotel to a controlled access alcohol and
beverage cabinet pursuant to division (A)(2)(a) of this section;
            2.   Be made available during business hours to authorized agents
of the Division of Liquor Control pursuant to R.C. § 4301.10(A)(6) or to
enforcement agents of the Department of Public Safety pursuant to R.C. §§
5502.13 through 5502.19.
         (g)   The hotel shall observe all other applicable rules adopted by
the Division of Liquor Control and the Liquor Control Commission.
      (3)   The seller shall not require the purchase of food with the purchase
of beer or intoxicating liquor; nor shall the seller of beer or intoxicating
liquor give away food of any kind in connection with the sale of beer or
intoxicating liquor, except as authorized by rule of the state Liquor Control
Commission.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4301.62(C)(8), the seller
shall not permit the purchaser to remove beer or intoxicating liquor so sold
from the premises.
      (5)   A hotel authorized to sell beer and intoxicating liquor pursuant to
division (A)(2) of this section shall provide a registered guest with the
opportunity to refuse to accept a key, magnetic card, or other similar device
necessary to obtain access to the contents of a controlled access alcohol and
beverage cabinet in that guest room. If a registered guest refuses to accept
such key, magnetic card, or other similar device, the hotel shall not assess
any charges on the registered guest for use of the controlled access alcohol
and beverage cabinet in that guest room.
(R.C. § 4301.21)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 92.04 RESTRICTIONS ON SALE OF BEER AND LIQUOR.
   (A)   Restrictions on sales. Sales of beer and intoxicating liquor under all
classes of permits and from liquor stores are subject to the following
restrictions, in addition to those imposed by the rules or orders of the state
Division of Liquor Control.
      (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C.
Chapter 4301, no beer or intoxicating liquor shall be sold to any person under
21 years of age.
         (b)   No low-alcohol beverage shall be sold to any person under 18
years of age. No permit issued by the Division shall be suspended, revoked, or
cancelled because of a violation of this division (A)(1)(b).
         (c)   Except as provided in division (A)(1)(d) of this section, all of
the following apply to the handling, serving, and selling of beer and
intoxicating liquor by a person employed by a permit holder:
            1.   No person under 19 years of age shall sell beer across a bar.
            2.   No person under 21 years of age shall sell wine, mixed
beverages, or spirituous liquor across a bar.
            3.   No person under 18 years of age shall otherwise handle, serve,
or sell beer or intoxicating liquor.
         (d)   Any person employed by a permit holder may handle beer or
intoxicating liquor in sealed containers in connection with manufacturing,
storage, warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading, and
may handle beer or intoxicating liquor in open containers in connection with
cleaning tables or handling empty bottles or glasses.
      (2)   No permit holder and no agent or employee of a permit holder shall
sell or furnish beer or intoxicating liquor to an intoxicated person.
      (3)   (a)   No sales of intoxicating liquor shall be made after 2:30 a.m.
on Sunday, except under either of the following circumstances:
            1.   Intoxicating liquor may be sold on Sunday under authority of a
permit that authorizes Sunday sale.
            2.   Spiritous liquor may be sold on Sunday by any person awarded
an agency contract under R.C. § 4301.17 if the sale of spiritous liquor is
authorized in the applicable precinct as the result of an election on question
(B)(1) or (B)(2) of R.C. § 4301.351 and if the agency contract authorizes the
sale of spiritous liquor on Sunday.
         (b)   This section does not prevent the municipality from adopting a
closing hour for the sale of intoxicating liquor earlier than 2:30 a.m. on
Sunday or to provide that no intoxicating liquor may be sold prior to that hour
on Sunday.
      (4)   (a)   No holder of a permit shall give away any beer or
intoxicating liquor of any kind at any time in connection with the permit
holder’s business. However, with the exception of an A-1-A permit holder that
also has been issued an A-2 or A-2f permit, an A-1-A, A-1c, or D permit holder
may provide to a paying customer not more than a total of four tasting samples
of beer, wine, or spirituous liquor, as authorized by the applicable permit, in
any twenty-four-hour period. The permit holder shall provide the tasting
samples free of charge, at the permit holder’s expense, only to a person who is
21 years of age or older. The person shall consume the tasting samples on the
premises of the permit holder. A distributor is not responsible for the costs
of providing tasting samples authorized under this division (A)(4).
         (b)   As used in this division (A)(4):
            TASTING SAMPLE. One of the following, as applicable:
               a.   An amount not to exceed two ounces of beer;
               b.   An amount not to exceed two ounces of wine; or
               c.   An amount not to exceed a quarter ounce of spirituous
liquor.
            D PERMIT HOLDER. A person that has been issued a D-1, D-2, D-2x, D-
3, D-3a, D-3 x, D-4, D-5, D-5a, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e, D-5f, D-5g, D-5h, D-5i, D-5j,
D-5k, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-6, or D-7 permit.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, no retail permit
holder shall display or permit the display on the outside of any licensed
retail premises, on any lot of ground on which the licensed premises are
situated, or on the exterior of any building of which the licensed premises are
a part, any sign, illustration, or advertisement bearing the name, brand name,
trade name, trademark, designation, or other emblem of, or indicating the
manufacturer, producer, distributor, place of manufacture, production, or
distribution of, any beer or intoxicating liquor. Signs, illustrations, or
advertisements bearing the name, brand name, trade name, trademark,
designation, or other emblem of or indicating the manufacturer, producer,
distributor, place of manufacture, production, or distribution of beer or
intoxicating liquor may be displayed and permitted to be displayed on the
interior or in the show windows of any licensed premises, if the particular
brand or type of product so advertised is actually available for sale on the
premises at the time of that display. The Liquor Control Commission shall
determine by rule the size and character of those signs, illustrations, or
advertisements.
      (6)   No retail permit holder shall possess on the licensed premises any
barrel or other container from which beer is drawn, unless there is attached to
the spigot or other dispensing apparatus the name of the manufacturer of the
product contained in the barrel or other container, provided that, if the beer
is served at a bar, the manufacturer’s name or brand shall appear in full view
of the purchaser. The Commission shall regulate the size and character of the
devices provided for in this section.
      (7)   The sale of gift certificates for the purchase of beer, wine, or
mixed beverages shall be permitted for the purchase of beer, wine, or mixed
beverages for on- or off-premises consumption. Limitations on the use of a gift
certificate for the purchase of beer, wine, or mixed beverages for on- or off-
premises consumption may be expressed by clearly stamping or typing on the face
of the certificate that the certificate may not be used for the purchase of
beer, wine, or mixed beverages for on-premises consumption.
(R.C. § 4301.22)
   (B)   Division (A)(1) not modified or affected. The provisions of R.C. §§
4301.633 through 4301.637, or substantially equivalent municipal ordinances,
shall not be deemed to modify or affect division (A)(1) of this section or R.C.
§ 4301.22(A).
(R.C. § 4301.638)
   (C)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates divisions (A)(1)(b) or (A)(3) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates divisions (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(c) or (A)(2) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(D), (H))
Statutory reference:
   Suspension of beer and liquor sales during emergency, see R.C. § 4301.251
§ 92.05 PERMIT REQUIRED; ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED WITHOUT PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   No person personally or by the person’s clerk, agent, or employee,
shall manufacture, manufacture for sale, offer, keep, or possess for sale,
furnish or sell, or solicit the purchase or sale of any beer or intoxicating
liquor in this state, or transport, import, or cause to be transported or
imported any beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol in or into this municipality
for delivery, use or sale, unless the person has fully complied with R.C.
Chapters 4301 and 4303 or is the holder of a permit issued by the Division of
Liquor Control and in force at the time.
      (2)   (a)   No manufacturer, supplier, wholesale distributor, broker, or
retailer of beer or intoxicating liquor, or other person shall employ, retain,
or otherwise utilize any person in this state to act as an employee, agent,
solicitor, or salesperson, or act in any other representative capacity to sell,
solicit, take orders, or receive offers to purchase or expressions of interest
to purchase beer or intoxicating liquor from any person, at any location other
than a liquor permit premises, except as specifically authorized by R.C.
Chapter 4301 or R.C. Chapter 4303 or rules adopted thereunder.
         (b)   No function, event, or party shall take place at any location
other than a liquor permit premises where any person acts in any manner to
sell, solicit, take orders, or receive offers to purchase or expressions of
intent to purchase beer or intoxicating liquor to or from any person, except as
specifically authorized by R.C. Chapter 4301 or R.C. Chapter 4303 or rules
adopted thereunder.
(R.C. § 4303.25)
   (B)   Activities prohibited without permit.
      (1)   As used in this division (B):
         CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. An organization described under section 501
(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code and exempt from federal income taxation
under section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         FUNDRAISER. Means a raffle, silent auction, or event where a door
prize is awarded.
         POLITICAL ORGANIZATION. Means a political organization defined under
section 527 of the Internal Revenue Code.
         RAFFLE. Means a raffle conducted in accordance with R.C. Chapter 2915.
         SILENT AUCTION. Means a method of submitting bids in writing by one or
more persons and, after a review of all the bids received, personal property is
awarded to the highest and most responsive bidder.
      (2)   No person, personally or by the person's clerk, agent, or employee,
who is not the holder of an A permit issued by the Ohio Division of Liquor
Control, in force at the time, and authorizing the manufacture of beer or
intoxicating liquor, or who is not an agent or employee of the Division
authorized to manufacture such beer or intoxicating liquor, shall manufacture
any beer or intoxicating liquor for sale, or shall manufacture spirituous
liquor.
      (3)   No person, personally or by the person's clerk, agent, or employee,
who is not the holder of an A, B, C, D, E, F, G, I, or S permit issued by the
Division, in force at the time, and authorizing the sale of beer, intoxicating
liquor, or alcohol, or who is not an agent or employee of the Division or the
Tax Commissioner authorized to sell such beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol,
shall sell, keep, or possess beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol for sale to
any persons other than those authorized by R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303 to
purchase any beer or intoxicating liquor, or sell any alcohol at retail.
      (4)   No person, personally or by the person's clerk, agent, or employee,
who is the holder of a permit issued by the Division, shall sell, keep, or
possess for sale any intoxicating liquor not purchased from the Division or
from the holder of a permit issued by the Division authorizing the sale of such
intoxicating liquor unless the same has been purchased with the special consent
of the Division. The Division shall revoke the permit of any person convicted
of a violation of division (B)(3) of this section.
      (5)   Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to either of the
following:
         (a)   The sale or possession for sale of any low-alcohol beverage;
         (b)   Beer and intoxicating liquor that is given away if all of the
following apply:
            1.   The beer or intoxicating liquor is given away by a charitable
or political organization to a participant in a fundraiser.
            2.   Any beer, wine, or mixed beverages given away via the
fundraiser is purchased from a person issued a permit under R.C. Chapter 4303.
            3.   Any spirituous liquor given away via the fundraiser is
purchased from an agency store located in this state.
            4.   Regarding any spirituous liquor donated to the charitable or
political organization for purposes of the fundraiser, the donor is not an
agency store located in this state and submits to the charitable or political
organization receipts showing that the donor purchased the spirituous liquor
from an agency store located in this state.
            5.   The charitable or political organization submits purchase
receipts for the spirituous liquor given away via a fundraiser to the Division
of Liquor Control as proof that the spirituous liquor was purchased from an
agency store located in this state. The charitable or political organization
shall submit the receipts in accordance with procedures that the Division shall
establish.
(R.C. § 4301.58)
   (C)   Penalty. Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 92.06 ILLEGAL TRANSPORTATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, who is not the holder of an H permit shall transport beer,
intoxicating liquor, or alcohol in this municipality. This section does not
apply to the transportation and delivery of beer, alcohol, or intoxicating
liquor purchased or to be purchased from the holder of a permit issued by the
Division of Liquor Control, in force at the time, and authorizing the sale and
delivery of the beer, alcohol, or intoxicating liquor so transported, or to the
transportation and delivery of beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol purchased
from the Department or the Tax Commissioner, or purchased by the holder of an A
or B permit outside this state, and transported within this municipality by
them in their own trucks for the purpose of sale under their permits.
(R.C. § 4301.60)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 92.07 OPEN CONTAINER PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE. A vehicle registered under R.C. § 4503.24.
      HIGHWAY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (B)   No person shall have in the person’s possession an opened container of
beer or intoxicating liquor in any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(e) of this section, in a
state liquor store;
      (2)   Except as provided in division (C) or (J) of this section, on the
premises of the holder of any permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control;
      (3)   In any other public place;
      (4)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, while
operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on any street, highway,
or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking;
      (5)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, while
being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on any street, highway, or other
public or private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking.
   (C)   (1)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened container
of any of the following:
         (a)   Beer or intoxicating liquor that has been lawfully purchased for
consumption on the premises where bought from the holder of an A-1-A, A-2, A-
2f, A-3a, D-1, D-2, D-3, D-3a, D-4, D-4a, D-5, D-5a, D-5b, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e, D-
5f, D-5g, D-5h, D-5i, D-5j, D-5k, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-7, D-8, D-9, E, F,
F-2, F-5, F-7, F-8, or F-9 permit;
         (b)   Beer, wine, or mixed beverages served for consumption on the
premises by the holder of an F-3 permit, wine served as a tasting sample by an
A-2, A-2f, S-1, or S-2 permit holder for consumption on the premises of a
farmers market for which an F-10 permit has been issued, or wine served for
consumption on the premises by the holder of an F-4 or F-6 permit;
         (c)   Beer or intoxicating liquor consumed on the premises of a
convention facility as provided in R.C. § 4303.201;
         (d)   Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed during tastings and
samplings approved by rule of the Liquor Control Commission;
         (e)   Spiritous liquor to be consumed for purposes of a tasting
sample, as defined in R.C. § 4301.171;
         (f)   Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed in an outdoor area
described in R.C. § 4303.188(B)(1).
      (2)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F liquor permit
premises an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor that was not
purchased from the holder of the F permit if the premises for which the F
permit is issued is a music festival and the holder of the F permit grants
permission for that possession on the premises during the period for which the
F permit is issued. As used in this division (C)(2), MUSIC FESTIVAL means a
series of outdoor live musical performances extending for a period of at least
three consecutive days and located on an area of land of at least 40 acres.
      (3)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on a D-2 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of wine that was not purchased
from the holder of the D-2 permit if the premises for which the D-2 permit is
issued is an outdoor performing arts center, the person is attending an
orchestral performance, and the holder of the D-2 permit grants permission for
the possession and consumption of wine in certain predesignated areas of the
premises during the period for which the D-2 permit is issued.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(3)(a) of this section:
            ORCHESTRAL PERFORMANCE. A concert comprised of a group of not fewer
than 40 musicians playing various musical instruments.
            OUTDOOR PERFORMING ARTS CENTER. An outdoor performing arts center
that is located on not less than 150 acres of land and that is open for
performances from the first day of April to the last day of October of each
year.
      (4)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened or unopened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location at which the
person is attending an orchestral performance as defined in division (C)(3)(b)
of this section if the person with supervision and control over the performance
grants permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating
liquor in certain predesignated areas of that outdoor location.
      (5)   A person may have in the person's possession on an F-9 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
that was not purchased from the holder of the F-9 permit if the F-9 permit
holder grants permission for the possession and consumption of beer or
intoxicating liquor in certain predesignated areas of the premises during the
period for which the F-9 permit is issued.
      (6)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of an outdoor motorsports facility an opened or unopened container of beer or
intoxicating liquor that was not purchased from the owner of the facility if
both of the following apply:
            1.   The person is attending a racing event at the facility; and
            2.   The owner of the facility grants permission for the possession
and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor on the property of the facility.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(6)(a) of this section:
            OUTDOOR MOTORSPORTS FACILITY. An outdoor racetrack to which all of
the following apply:
               a.   It is 2.4 miles or more in length.
               b.   It is located on 200 acres or more of land.
               c.   The primary business of the owner of the facility is the
hosting and promoting of racing events.
               d.   The holder of a D-1, D-2, or D-3 permit is located on the
property of the facility.
            RACING EVENT. A motor vehicle racing event sanctioned by one or
more motor racing sanctioning organizations.
      (7)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location within an
outdoor refreshment area created under R.C. § 4301.82 if the opened container
of beer or intoxicating liquor was purchased from an A-1, A-1-A, A-1c, A-2, A-
2f, D class, or F class permit holder to which both of the following apply:
            1.   The permit holder’s premises is located within the outdoor
refreshment area.
            2.   The permit held by the permit holder has an outdoor
refreshment area designation.
         (b)   This division (C)(7) does not authorize a person to do either of
the following:
            1.   Enter the premises of an establishment within an outdoor
refreshment area while possessing an opened container of beer or intoxicating
liquor acquired elsewhere; or
            2.   Possess an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
while being in or on a motor vehicle within an outdoor refreshment area, unless
the possession is otherwise authorized under division (D) or (E) of this
section.
         (c)   As used in division (C)(7) of this section, “D class permit
holder” does not include a D-6 or D-8 permit holder.
      (8)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of a market, within a defined F-8 permit premises, an opened container of beer
or intoxicating liquor that was purchased from a D permit premises that is
located immediately adjacent to the market if both of the following apply:
            1.   The market grants permission for the possession and
consumption of beer and intoxicating liquor within the defined F-8 permit
premises;
            2.   The market is hosting an event pursuant to an F-8 permit and
the market has notified the division of liquor control about the event in
accordance with R.C. § 4303.208(A)(3).
         (b)   As used in this division (C)(8), MARKET means a market, for
which an F-8 permit is held, that has been in operation since 1860.
   (D)   This section does not apply to a person who pays all or a portion of
the fee imposed for use of a chauffeured limousine pursuant to a prearranged
contract or the guest of the person, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person or guest is a passenger in the limousine.
      (2)   The person or guest is located in the limousine, but is not
occupying a seat in the front compartment of the limousine where the operator
of the limousine is located.
      (3)   The limousine is located on any street, highway, or other public or
private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking.
   (E)   An opened bottle of wine that was purchased from the holder of a
permit that authorizes the sale of wine for consumption on the premises where
sold is not an opened container for the purposes of this section if both of the
following apply:
      (1)   The opened bottle of wine is securely resealed by the permit holder
or an employee of the permit holder before the bottle is removed from the
premises. The bottle shall be secured in such a manner that it is visibly
apparent if the bottle has been subsequently opened or tampered with.
      (2)   The opened bottle of wine that is resealed in accordance with
division (E)(1) of this section is stored in the trunk of a motor vehicle or,
if the motor vehicle does not have a trunk, behind the last upright seat or in
an area not normally occupied by the driver or passengers and not easily
accessible by the driver.
   (F)   (1)   Except if an ordinance or resolution is enacted or adopted under
division (F)(2) of this section, this section does not apply to a person who,
pursuant to a prearranged contract, is a passenger riding on a commercial
quadricycle when all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is not occupying a seat in the front of the
commercial quadricycle where the operator is steering or braking.
         (b)   The commercial quadricycle is being operated on a street,
highway, or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking.
         (c)   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
an opened container of beer or wine.
         (d)   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
not more than either 36 ounces of beer or 18 ounces of wine.
      (2)   The legislative authority may enact an ordinance or adopt a
resolution, as applicable, that prohibits a passenger riding on a commercial
quadricycle from possessing an opened container of beer or wine.
      (3)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL QUADRICYCLE means a vehicle
that has fully-operative pedals for propulsion entirely by human power and that
meets all of the following requirements:
         (a)   It has four wheels and is operated in a manner similar to a
bicycle.
         (b)   It has at least five seats for passengers.
         (c)   It is designed to be powered by the pedaling of the operator and
the passengers.
         (d)   It is used for commercial purposes.
         (e)   It is operated by the vehicle owner or an employee of the owner.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person’s
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor on the premises
of a market if the beer or intoxicating liquor has been purchased from a D
liquor permit holder that is located in the market.
      (2)   As used in this division (G), MARKET means an establishment that:
         (a)   Leases space in the market to individual vendors, not less than
50% of which are retail food establishments or food service operations licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3717;
         (b)   Has an indoor sales floor area of not less than 22,000 square
feet; or
         (c)   Hosts a farmer’s market on each Saturday from April through
December.
   (H)   (1)   As used in this section, ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE has the same meaning
as in R.C. § 4303.185.
      (2)   An alcoholic beverage in a closed container being transported under
R.C. § 4303.185 to its final destination is not an opened container for the
purposes of this section if the closed container is securely sealed in such a
manner that it is visibly apparent if the closed container has been
subsequently opened or tampered with after sealing.
   (I)   This section does not apply to a person who has in the person’s
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor in a public-use
airport, as described in R.C. § 4303.181(D)(2)(a)(iii), when both of the
following apply:
      (1)   Consumption of the opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
occurs in the area of the airport terminal that is restricted to persons taking
flights to and from the airport; and
      (2)   The consumption is authorized under R.C. § 4303.181(D)(2)(a).
   (J)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person's
possession an opened container of homemade beer or wine that is served in
accordance with R.C. § 4301.201(E).
(R.C. § 4301.62)
   (K)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4301.99(A))
§ 92.08 UNDERAGE PERSON SHALL NOT PURCHASE INTOXICATING LIQUOR OR BEER.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person under the age of 21 years shall purchase beer or intoxicating liquor.
(R.C. § 4301.63)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $100. The court imposing a fine for a violation of this section may
order that the fine be paid by the performance of public work at a reasonable
hour rate established by the court. The court shall designate the time within
which the public work shall be completed.
(R.C. § 4301.99(E))
§ 92.09 PROHIBITIONS; MINORS UNDER 18 YEARS; LOW-ALCOHOL BEVERAGES.
   (A)   As used in this section, UNDERAGE PERSON means a person under 18 years
of age.
   (B)   No underage person shall purchase any low-alcohol beverage.
   (C)   No underage person shall order, pay for, share the cost of, or attempt
to purchase any low- alcohol beverage.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the
name, age, or other identification of any underage person for the purpose of
obtaining or with the intent to obtain any low- alcohol beverage for an
underage person, by purchase or as a gift.
   (E)   No underage person shall knowingly show or give false information
concerning his or her name, age, or other identification for the purpose of
purchasing or otherwise obtaining any low-alcohol beverage in any place in this
municipality.
   (F)   No person shall sell or furnish any low-alcohol beverage to, or buy
any low-alcohol beverage for, an underage person, unless given by a physician
in the regular line of his or her practice or given for established religious
purposes, or unless the underage person is accompanied by a parent, spouse who
is not an underage person, or legal guardian.
   (G)   (1)   No person who is the owner or occupant of any public or private
place shall knowingly allow any underage person to remain in or on the place
while possessing or consuming any low-alcohol beverage, unless the low-alcohol
beverage is given to the person possessing or consuming it by that person’s
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, and the
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian is present when
the person possesses or consumes the low- alcohol beverage.
      (2)   An owner of a public or private place is not liable for acts or
omissions in violation of division (G)(1) that are committed by a lessee of
that place, unless the owner authorizes or acquiesces in the lessee’s acts or
omissions.
   (H)   No permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control shall be suspended,
revoked, or cancelled because of a violation of either division (F) or (G).
   (I)   No underage person shall knowingly possess or consume any low-alcohol
beverage in any public or private place, unless he or she is accompanied by a
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, or unless the
low-alcohol beverage is given by a physician in the regular line of his or her
practice or given for established religious purposes.
   (J)   No parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian of
an underage person shall knowingly permit the underage person to violate this
section.
(R.C. § 4301.631)
   (K)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of this section for which no
other penalty is provided is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section shall be fined not
less than $25 nor more than $100. The court imposing a fine for a violation of
division (B) of this section may order that the fine be paid by the performance
of public work at a reasonable hour rate established by the court. The court
shall designate the time within which the public work shall be completed.
(R.C. § 4301.99(E))
§ 92.10 ALCOHOL VAPORIZING DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section, ALCOHOL VAPORIZING DEVICE means a machine or
other device that mixes beer or intoxicating liquor with pure oxygen or any
other gas to produce a vaporized product for the purpose of consumption by
inhalation.
   (B)   No person shall sell or offer for sale an alcohol vaporizing device.
   (C)   No person shall purchase or use an alcohol vaporizing device.
(R.C. § 4301.65)
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
misdemeanor of the third degree. For a second or subsequent violation occurring
within a period of five consecutive years after the first violation, a person
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(J))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4301.99(A))
§ 92.11 MISREPRESENTATION TO OBTAIN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE FOR A MINOR PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the name, age, or
other identification of any person under 21 years of age, for the purpose of
obtaining, or with the intent to obtain, beer or intoxicating liquor for a
person under 21 years of age, by purchase, or as a gift.
(R.C. § 4301.633)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 92.12 MISREPRESENTATION BY A MINOR UNDER 21 YEARS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person under the age of 21 years shall knowingly show or give false
information concerning his or her name, age, or other identification for the
purpose of purchasing or otherwise obtaining beer or intoxicating liquor in any
place in this municipality where beer or intoxicating liquor is sold under a
permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control, or sold by the Division of
Liquor Control.
(R.C. § 4301.634)
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If, in committing a first violation of
division (A), the offender presented to the permit holder or his or her
employee or agent a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $250 and not
more than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more
than six months.
      (2)   On a second violation in which, for the second time, the offender
presented to the permit holder or his or her employee or agent a false,
fictitious, or altered identification card, a false or fictitious driver’s
license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s license issued by any
state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, and
may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than six months. The
court also may impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operation privilege from
the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
      (3)   On a third or subsequent violation in which, for the third or
subsequent time, the offender presented to the permit holder or his or her
employee or agent a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more
than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than
six months. Except as provided in this division, the court also may impose a
class six suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or permit or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. §
4510.02(A)(6), and the court may order that the suspension or denial remain in
effect until the offender attains the age of 21 years. The court, in lieu of
suspending the offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s
license, or driver’s license, instead may order the offender to perform a
determinate number of hours of community service, with the court determining
the actual number of hours and the nature of the community service the offender
shall perform.
(R.C. § 4301.99(F))
§ 92.13 SALE TO UNDERAGE PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person shall sell beer or intoxicating liquor to an underage person, shall
buy beer or intoxicating liquor for an underage person, or shall furnish it to
an underage person unless given by a physician in the regular line of the
physician’s practice or given for established religious purposes or unless the
underage person is supervised by a parent, spouse who is not an underage
person, or legal guardian. In proceedings before the Liquor Control Commission,
no permit holder, or no employee or agent of a permit holder, charged with a
violation of this division shall be charged, for the same offense, with a
violation of R.C. § 4301.22(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   No person who is the owner or occupant of any public or private place
shall knowingly allow any underage person to remain in or on the place while
possessing or consuming beer or intoxicating liquor, unless the intoxicating
liquor or beer is given to the person possessing or consuming it by that
person’s parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian and
the parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian is present
at the time of the person’s possession or consumption of the beer or
intoxicating liquor. An owner of a public or private place is not liable for
acts or omissions in violation of this division that are committed by a lessee
of that place, unless the owner authorizes or acquiesces in the lessee’s acts
or omissions.
   (C)   No person shall engage or use accommodations at a hotel, inn, cabin,
campground, or restaurant when the person knows or has reason to know either of
the following:
      (1)   That beer or intoxicating liquor will be consumed by an underage
person on the premises of the accommodations that the person engages or uses,
unless the person engaging or using the accommodations is the spouse of the
underage person and who is not an underage person, or is the parent or legal
guardian of all of the underage persons, who consume beer or intoxicating
liquor on the premises and that person is on the premises at all times when
beer or intoxicating liquor is being consumed by an underage person.
      (2)   That a drug of abuse will be consumed on the premises of the
accommodations by any person, except a person who obtained the drug of abuse
pursuant to a prescription issued by a licensed health professionals authorized
to prescribe drugs and has the drug of abuse in the original container in which
it was dispensed to the person.
   (D)   (1)   No person is required to permit the engagement of accommodations
at any hotel, inn, cabin, or campground by an underage person or for an
underage person, if the person engaging the accommodations knows or has reason
to know that the underage person is intoxicated, or that the underage person
possesses any beer or intoxicating liquor and is not supervised by a parent,
spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian who is or will be
present at all times when the beer or intoxicating liquor is being consumed by
the underage person.
      (2)   No underage person shall knowingly engage or attempt to engage
accommodations at any hotel, inn, cabin, or campground by presenting
identification that falsely indicates that the underage person is 21 years of
age or older for the purpose of violating this section.
   (E)   (1)   No underage person shall knowingly order, pay for, share the
cost of, attempt to purchase, possess, or consume any beer or intoxicating
liquor in any public or private place. No underage person shall knowingly be
under the influence of any beer or intoxicating liquor in any public place. The
prohibitions set forth in this division against an underage person knowingly
possessing, consuming, or being under the influence of any beer or intoxicating
liquor shall not apply if the underage person is supervised by a parent, spouse
who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, or the beer or intoxicating
liquor is given by a physician in the regular line of the physician’s practice
or given for established religious purposes.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is charged with violating division (E)(1) of this
section in a complaint filed under R.C. § 2151.27, the court may order the
child into a diversion program specified by the court and hold the complaint in
abeyance pending successful completion of the diversion program. A child is
ineligible to enter into a diversion program under this division if the child
previously has been diverted pursuant to this division. If the child completes
the diversion program to the satisfaction of the court, the court shall dismiss
the complaint and order the child’s record in the case sealed under R.C. §§
2151.356 through 2151.358. If the child fails to satisfactorily complete the
diversion program, the court shall proceed with the complaint.
         (b)   If a person is charged in a criminal complaint with violating
division (E)(1) of this section, R.C. § 2935.36 shall apply to the offense,
except that a person is ineligible for diversion under that section if the
person previously has been diverted pursuant to division (E)(2)(a) of this
section or this division (E)(2)(b). If the person completes the diversion
program to the satisfaction of the court, the court shall dismiss the complaint
and order the record in the case sealed under R.C.§ 2953.33. If the person
fails to satisfactorily complete the diversion program, the court shall proceed
with the complaint.
   (F)   No parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian of
a minor shall knowingly permit the minor to violate this section or R.C. §
4301.63, 4301.633, or 4301.634, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (G)   The operator of any hotel, inn, cabin, or campground shall make the
provisions of this section available in writing to any person engaging or using
accommodations at the hotel, inn, cabin, or campground.
   (H)   As used in this section:
      DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
      HOTEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3731.01.
      LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
      MINOR. Means a person under the age of 18 years.
      PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
      UNDERAGE PERSON. A person under the age of 21 years.
(R.C. § 4301.69)
   (I)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4301.633 through 4301.637, or substantially
equivalent municipal ordinances, shall not be deemed to modify or affect
divisions (A) through (H) of this section or R.C. § 4301.69.
(R.C. § 4301.638)
   (J)   (1)   Whoever violates divisions (B), (C), (D), or (F) of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If an offender who violates division (E)(1) of
this section was under the age of 18 years at the time of the offense and the
offense occurred while the offender was the operator of or a passenger in a
motor vehicle, the court, in addition to any other penalties it imposes upon
the offender, shall suspend the offender's temporary instruction permit or
probationary driver's license for a period of not less than six months and not
more than one year. If the offender is 15 years and six months of age or older
and has not been issued a temporary instruction permit or probationary driver's
license, the offender shall not be eligible to be issued such a license or
permit for a period of six months. If the offender has not attained the age of
15 years and six months, the offender shall not be eligible to be issued a
temporary instruction permit until the offender attains the age of 16 years.
(R.C. § 4301.99(D))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor, shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, and in
addition to the fine, may be imprisoned for a definite term of not more than
six months.
(R.C. § 4301.99(I))
Statutory reference:
   Changes to law if federal uniform drinking age repealed or declared
unconstitutional, see R.C. § 4301.691
§ 92.14 POSTING OF CARD.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4301.691, every place in
this municipality where beer, intoxicating liquor, or any low-alcohol beverage
is sold for beverage purposes shall display at all times, in a prominent place
on the premises thereof, a printed card, which shall be furnished by the
Division of Liquor Control and which shall read substantially as follows:
   WARNING TO PERSONS UNDER AGE
   If you are under the age of 21
      Under the statutes of the state of Ohio, if you order, pay for, share the
cost of, or attempt to purchase, or possess or consume beer or intoxicating
liquor in any public place, or furnish false information as to name, age, or
other identification, you are subject to a fine of up to $1,000, or
imprisonment up to 6 months, or both.
   If you are under the age of 18
      Under the statutes of the state of Ohio, if you order, pay for, share the
cost of, or attempt to purchase, or posses or consume, any type of beer or wine
that contains either no alcohol or less than one-half of one per cent of
alcohol by volume in any public place, or furnish false information as to the
name, age, or other identification, you are subject to a fine of up to $250 or
to imprisonment up to 30 days, or both.
      (2)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Department or the Liquor Control Commission for failing
to display this card. No permit issued by the Department shall be suspended,
revoked, or canceled because of the failure of the permit holder to display
this card.
   (B)   (1)   Every place in this municipality for which a D permit has been
issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 shall be issued a printed card by the Division
of Liquor Control that shall read substantially as follows:
   WARNING
   If you are carrying a firearm
      Under the statutes of Ohio, if you possess a firearm in any room in which
liquor is being dispensed in premises for which a D permit has been issued
under Chapter 4303 of the Revised Code, you may be guilty of a felony and may
be subjected to a prison term of up to one year.
      (2)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Division of Liquor Control or the Liquor Control
Commission for failing to display this card. No permit issued by the Department
shall be suspended, revoked, or canceled because of the failure of the permit
holder to display this card.
(R.C. § 4301.637) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Carrying concealed weapon, felony, see R.C. § 2923.12
   Possessing firearm in liquor permit premises, exceptions, defenses, see R.C.
§ 2923.121
§ 92.15 GOOD FAITH ACCEPTANCES OF SPURIOUS IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   No permit holder, agent or employee of a permit holder, or any other
person may be found guilty of a violation of any section of this chapter in
which age is any element of the offense, if any court of record finds all of
the following:
      (1)   That the person buying, at the time of so doing, exhibited to the
permit holder, the agent or employee of the permit holder, or the other person
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card as defined
in R.C. § 4301.61, a military identification card issued by the United States
Department of Defense, or a United States or foreign passport, that displays a
picture of the individual for whom the license, card, or passport was issued
and shows that the person buying was then at least 21 years of age if the
person was buying beer as defined in R.C. § 4301.01 or intoxicating liquor, or
that the person was then at least 18 years of age if the person was buying any
low-alcohol beverage;
      (2)   That the permit holder, the agent or employee of the permit holder,
or the other person made a bona fide effort to ascertain the true age of the
person buying by checking the identification presented at the time of the
purchase to ascertain that the description on the identification compared with
the appearance of the buyer and that the identification presented had not been
altered in any way.
      (3)   That the permit holder, the agent or employee of the permit holder,
or the other person had reason to believe that the person buying was of legal
age.
   (B)   The defense provided by division (A) of this section is in addition to
the affirmative defense provided by §
92.29.
(R.C. § 4301.639(A), (C))
§ 92.16 CONSUMPTION IN MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall consume any beer or intoxicating liquor in a motor
vehicle. This section does not apply to persons described in R.C. § 4301.62(D)
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4301.64)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If an offender who violates this section was under the age of 18 years
at the time of the offense, the court, in addition to any other penalties it
imposes upon the offender, may suspend the offender’s temporary instruction
permit, probationary driver’s license or driver’s license for a period of not
less than six months and not more than one year. In lieu of suspending the
offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or
driver’s license, the court instead may require the offender to perform
community service for a number of hours determined by the court. If the
offender is 15 years and six months of age or older and has not been issued a
temporary instruction permit or probationary driver’s license, the offender
shall not be eligible to be issued such a license or permit for a period of six
months. If the offender has not attained the age of 15 years and six months,
the offender shall not be eligible to be issued a temporary instruction permit
until the offender attains the age of 16 years.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
§ 92.17 HOURS OF SALE OR CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   This section shall apply to the retail sale of beer, wine, mixed
beverages, or spirituous liquor.
   (B)   (1)   No beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor shall be
sold or delivered by an A-1, A-1C, A-2, B-1, B-2, B-4, B-5, C-1, C-2, C-2X, D-
1, D-2, D-2X, D-3 when issued without a D-3A, D-3X, D-4, D-5H, D-5K, D-8, F, F-
1, F-2, F-3, F-4, F-5, F-6, F-7, F-8, F-9, G, or I permit holder from Monday to
Saturday between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:30 a.m. and on Sunday between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and Sunday midnight, unless statutorily authorized
otherwise.
      (2)   Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above permit
holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages,
or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.
   (C)   (1)   No beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor shall be
sold or delivered by an A-1A, D-3 when issued with a D-3A, D-4A, D-5, D-5A, D-
5B, D-5C, D-5D, D-5E, D-5F, D-5G, D-5I, D-5J, D-5L, D-5M, D-5N, D-5O, or D-
7 permit holder from Monday to Saturday between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 5:30
a.m. and on Sunday between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and Sunday midnight, unless
statutorily authorized otherwise.
      (2)   Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above permit
holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages,
or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.
   (D)   Permit holders authorized to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages, or
spirituous liquor at retail who are not specifically identified in divisions
(B) or (C) of this section shall be subject to the provisions of division (B),
unless statutorily authorized otherwise.
   (E)   The hours on Sunday during which sales, delivery, or consumption of
alcoholic beverages may take place are established by statute, but in no event
shall they begin prior to 5:30 a.m.
   (F)   No association, corporation, local unit of an association or
corporation, or D permit holder who holds an F-2 permit shall sell beer or
intoxicating liquor beyond the hours of sale allowed by the permit. This
division imposes strict liability on the holder of such permit and on any
officer, agent or employee of such permit holder.
(R.C. § 4303.202(D)(2))
   (G)   No F-8 permit holder shall sell beer or intoxicating liquor beyond the
hours of sale allowed by the permit. This division imposes strict liability on
the holder of an F-8 permit and on any officer, agent or employee of that
permit holder.
(R.C. § 4303.208(C))
   (H)   Whoever violates divisions (F) or (G) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4303.99(D)) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18 OBSTRUCTING SEARCH OF PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall hinder or obstruct any agent or employee of the
Division of Liquor Control, any enforcement agent of the Department of Public
Safety or any officer of the law from making an inspection or search of any
place, other than a bona fide private residence, where beer or intoxicating
liquor is possessed, kept, sold, or given away.
(R.C. § 4301.66)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
§ 92.19 ILLEGAL POSSESSION OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall have possession of any spirituous liquor, in excess of
one liter, in one or more containers, which was not purchased at wholesale or
retail from the Division of Liquor Control or otherwise lawfully acquired
pursuant to this chapter, R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, or any other
intoxicating liquor or beer, in one or more containers, which was not lawfully
acquired pursuant to those chapters.
(R.C. § 4301.67)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
§ 92.20 SALE OR POSSESSION OF DILUTED LIQUOR AND REFILLED CONTAINERS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, or possess with the intent to
sell intoxicating liquor in any original container which has been diluted,
refilled, or partly refilled.
(R.C. § 4301.68)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 92.21 KEEPING PLACE WHERE BEER OR INTOXICATING LIQUORS ARE SOLD IN VIOLATION
OF LAW.
   (A)   No person shall keep a place where beer or intoxicating liquors are
sold, furnished, or given away in violation of law. The court, on conviction
for a subsequent violation of this section, shall order the place where the
beer or intoxicating liquor is sold, furnished, or given away to be abated as a
nuisance or shall order the person so convicted to give bond payable to the
state in the sum of $1,000, with sureties to the acceptance of the court, that
the person will not sell, furnish, or give away beer or intoxicating liquor in
violation of law and will pay all fines, costs, and damages assessed against
the person for that subsequent violation of this section. The giving away of
beer or intoxicating liquors, or any other device to evade this section,
constitutes unlawful selling.
   (B)   As used in this section, BEER has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4301.01.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any premises for which
a permit has been issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 while that permit is in
effect.
(R.C. § 4399.09)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500 on a first offense and shall be fined not less than $200 nor
more than $500 on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4399.99(B))
§ 92.22 INTOXICATING LIQUORS SHALL NOT BE SOLD IN BROTHELS.
   (A)   No person shall sell, exchange, or give away intoxicating liquor in a
brothel.
(R.C. § 4399.10)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500 and imprisoned not less than one nor more than six months.
(R.C. § 4399.99(C))
§ 92.23 USE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR IN A PUBLIC DANCE HALL PROHIBITED;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2) of this section,
no person who is the proprietor of, or who conducts, manages, or is in charge
of any public dance hall shall allow the use of any intoxicating liquor or the
presence of intoxicated persons in the public dance hall or on the premises on
which it is located.
      (2)   The prohibition against the use of any intoxicating liquor
contained in division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to establishments
that are holders of a D-1, D-2, D-3, D-4, or D-5 permit whose principal
business consists of conducting a hotel, a restaurant, a club, or a nightclub,
all as defined in R.C. § 4301.01.
(R.C. § 4399.14)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not more than six months, or both.
(R.C. § 4399.99(D))
§ 92.24 POISONOUSLY ADULTERATED LIQUORS.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of sale, shall adulterate spirituous
liquor, alcoholic liquor, or beer used or intended for drink or medicinal or
mechanical purposes, with cocculus indicus, vitriol, grains of paradise, opium,
alum, capsicum, copperas, laurel water, logwood, brazilwood, cochineal, sugar
of lead, aloes, glucose, tannic acid, or any other substance that is poisonous
or injurious to health, or with a substance not a necessary ingredient in the
manufacture of the spiritous liquor, alcoholic liquor, or beer, or sell, offer,
or keep for sale spiritous liquor, alcoholic liquor, or beer that is so
adulterated.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties provided in division (C) of this section,
a person convicted of violating this section shall pay all necessary costs and
expenses incurred in inspecting and analyzing spiritous liquor, alcoholic
liquor, or beer that is so adulterated, sold, kept, or offered for sale.
(R.C. § 4399.15)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $20 nor
more than $100, imprisoned not less than 20 nor more than 60 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4399.99(E))
§ 92.25 TAVERN KEEPER PERMITTING RIOTING OR DRUNKENNESS.
   (A)   No tavern keeper shall permit rioting, intoxication, or drunkenness in
or on his or her premises.
(R.C. § 4399.16)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $5 nor more
than $100.
(R.C. § 4399.99(A))
§ 92.26 NOTICE OF ACTION TO PROHIBIT LIQUOR BUSINESS.
   Any party bringing an action to prohibit the operation of a business under a
liquor permit issued pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4303 shall, upon filing the
complaint in the action, notify the Division of Liquor Control of the filing of
the complaint.
(R.C. § 4303.40)
§ 92.27 PROCEDURE WHEN INJUNCTION VIOLATED.
   (A)   Any person subject to an injunction, temporary or permanent, granted
pursuant to R.C. § 3767.05(D) or (E) involving a condition described in
division (3) of the definition of “nuisance” in R.C. § 3767.01, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall obey the injunction. If the
person violates the injunction, the court, or in vacation a judge thereof, may
summarily try and punish the violator. The proceedings for punishment for
contempt shall be commenced by filing with the Clerk of the Court from which
the injunction issued, information under oath setting out the alleged facts
constituting the violation, whereupon the court shall cause a warrant to issue
under which the defendant shall be arrested. The trial may be had upon
affidavits, or either party may demand the production and oral examination of
the witnesses.
(R.C. § 4301.74)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 92.28 LIQUOR TRANSACTION SCANS.
   (A)   As used in this section and §
92.29:
      CARD HOLDER. Means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a permit holder, or an agent or
employee of a permit holder, for either of the purposes listed in under
divisions (a) or (b) of the definition for “transaction scan” in this section.
      IDENTIFICATION CARD. Means an identification card issued under R.C. §§
4507.50 through 4507.52 or an equivalent identification card issued by another
state.
      PERMIT HOLDER. Means the holder of a permit issued under R.C. Chapter
4303.
      TRANSACTION SCAN. Means the process by which a permit holder or an agent
or employee of a permit holder checks, by means of a transaction scan device,
the validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card that is presented as a condition for doing either of the following:
         (a)   Purchasing any beer, intoxicating liquor, or low-alcohol
beverage;
         (b)   Gaining admission to a premises that has been issued a liquor
permit authorizing the sale of beer or intoxicating liquor for consumption on
the premises where sold, and where admission is restricted to persons 21 years
of age or older.
      TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Means any commercial device or combination of
devices used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card.
   (B)   (1)   A permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit holder may
perform a transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the
validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card
presented by a card holder for either of the purposes listed in divisions (a)
or (b) of the definition for “transaction scan” in this section.
      (2)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (B)(1) of this section fails to match the information printed on
the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by
the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information so
printed is false or fraudulent, neither the permit holder nor any agent or
employee of the permit holder shall sell any beer, intoxicating liquor, or low-
alcohol beverage to the card holder.
      (3)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not preclude a permit holder
or an agent or employee of a permit holder from using a transaction scan device
to check the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or identification card, if the document includes a bar code or
magnetic strip that may be scanned by the device, as a condition of a sale
beer, intoxicating liquor, or a low-alcohol beverage or of granting admission
to a premises described in the definition for “transaction scan” in this
section.
   (C)   The Registrar of Motor Vehicles, with the approval of the Liquor
Control Commission, shall adopt, and may amend or rescind, rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 that do both of the following:
      (1)   Govern the recording and maintenance of information described in
R.C. § 4301.61(D)(1)(a) and (D)(1)(b), R.C. § 2925.57(D)(1)(a) and (D)(1)(b),
and R.C. § 2927.021(D)(1)(a) and (D)(1)(b);
      (2)   Ensure quality control in the use of transaction scan devices under
R.C. §§ 2925.57, 2925.58, 2927.021, 2927.022, 4301.61, and 4301.611.
   (D)   (1)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except for the following:
         (a)   The name and date of birth of the person listed on the driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder;
         (b)   The expiration date and identification number of the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder.
      (2)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall use
the information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to
be recorded and maintained under division (D)(1) of this section, except for
purposes of R.C. § 4301.611, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (3)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall use
a transaction scan device for a purpose other than a purpose listed in
divisions (a) or (b) of the definition for “transaction scan” in this section.
      (4)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall sell
or otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by R.C. § 4301.611, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or another section of this code
or the Ohio Revised Code.
   (E)   Nothing in this section or R.C. § 4301.611, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, relieves a permit holder or an agent or
employee of a permit holder of any responsibility to comply with any other
applicable local, state or federal laws or rules governing the sale of beer,
intoxicating liquor, or low-alcohol beverages.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) or (D) of this section is guilty of
an illegal liquor transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender
a civil penalty of up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court
shall pay each collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into
the County Treasury.
(R.C. § 4301.61)
§ 92.29 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES.
   (A)   A permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit holder may not be
found guilty of a charge of a violation of this chapter or any rule of the
Liquor Control Commission in which the age of the purchaser of any beer,
intoxicating liquor, or low-alcohol beverage is an element of the alleged
violation, if the permit holder, agent, or employee raises and proves as an
affirmative defense that all of the following occurred:
      (1)   A card holder attempting to purchase any beer, intoxicating liquor,
or low-alcohol beverage presented a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
an identification card.
      (2)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that the
license or card was valid.
      (3)   The beer, intoxicating liquor, or low-alcohol beverage was sold to
the card holder in reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan.
   (B)   In determining whether a permit holder or an agent or employee of a
permit holder has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (A) of
this section, the Liquor Control Commission or the trier of fact in a court of
record shall consider any written policy that the permit holder has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of R.C. §§ 4301.22(A)(1)
or (A)(2), 4301.63 through 4301.636, 4301.69, and 4301.691, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances. For purposes of division (A)(3)
of this section, the Commission or trier of fact shall consider that reasonable
reliance upon the identification presented and the completed transaction scan
may require a permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit holder to
exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a transaction
scan device does not excuse a permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit
holder from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
      (1)   Whether a person to whom the permit holder or agent or employee of
a permit holder sells any beer or intoxicating liquor is 21 years of age or
older or sells low-alcohol beverage is 18 years of age or older;
      (2)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
   (C)   The affirmative defense provided by division (A) of this section is in
addition to the defense provided by R.C. § 4301.639, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   In any hearing before the Liquor Control Commission and in any
criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by division (A) of
this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a deputy registrar
who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50 through 4507.52 shall
be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of that issuance in lieu
of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles in the hearing or action.
(R.C. § 4301.611)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other penalty
has been provided is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4301.70, 4301.99(A))
Statutory reference:
   Liquor Director to be notified of court decision regarding permit holder,
employee or agent, see R.C. § 4301.991
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Application of the chapter
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Nuisances generally; injunctions; violation; contempt
   
93.04   Maintaining certain nuisances
   
93.05   Collection of cost of abating dangerous property condition; injunction;
rehabilitation
   
93.06   Trimming of trees and shrubbery to prevent obstruction
Septic Tanks, Cesspools, and Refuse
   
93.20   Location of privy vaults, cesspools, and septic tanks
   
93.21   Unsanitary vaults
   
93.22   Removal of contents of vault
   
93.23   Deposit of dead animals, offal upon land or water
   
93.24   Defiling spring or well prohibited
   
93.25   Dumping of refuse in municipality prohibited
   
93.26   Abandoned refrigerators
   
93.27   Discarding litter prohibited
   
93.28   Power of municipality to fill or drain land
Weeds and Litter on Private Property
   
93.40   Keeping down weeds
   
93.41   Notice to owner to cut noxious weeds, remove litter; service
   
93.42   Fees for service and return
   
93.43   Procedure when owner fails to comply with notice
   
93.44   Written return to County Auditor; amount as a lien upon property
Unclean Habitations
   
93.60   Permitting unclean habitations
   
93.61   When habitations are deemed unsanitary
   
93.62   Order for abatement or vacation of premises
   
93.63   Enforcement of vacation order by Fire Chief or Police Chief
   
93.64   Enforcement through court proceedings
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Duty to keep sidewalks free from nuisances, see §
94.030
   Injunction; abatement of nuisance, see §
133.15
   Operating a gambling house as nuisance, see §
134.03
   Places where intoxicating liquor sold as nuisances, see §§
92.21, 92.27 and 93.02
   Public gaming as nuisance, see §
134.04
   Unauthorized signs and signals as nuisance, see §
70.35
   Unclaimed and abandoned motor vehicles, see
Chapter 96
Statutory reference:
   Issuance of adjudication orders and stop work orders, see R.C. § 3781.031
   Noise, certain nuisance immunity regarding noise at shooting ranges, see
R.C. § 1533.85
   Ohio Building Code, see O.A.C. Chapter 4101:1
   Power to abate and prevent nuisances, see R.C. § 715.44
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 APPLICATION OF THE CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforceable within this municipality
concurrently with the state and federal laws relative to sanitation and health
and the ordinances or orders of the local health district relative thereto, and
shall not be construed as modifying, repealing, limiting, or affecting in any
manner such laws, ordinances, or orders.
(Ord. 98-107, passed 2-17-1998)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE. Any of the following:
      (1)   That which is defined and declared by statutes or ordinances to be
a nuisance;
      (2)   Any place in or upon which lewdness, assignation, or prostitution
is conducted, permitted, continued, or exists, or any place in or upon which
lewd, indecent, lascivious or obscene films or plate negatives, film or plate
positives, films designed to be projected on a screen for exhibition films, or
glass slides either in negative or positive form designed for exhibition by
projection on a screen, are photographed, manufactured, developed, screened,
exhibited, or otherwise prepared or shown, and the personal property and
contents used in conducting and maintaining any such place for any such
purpose. This chapter shall not affect any newspaper, magazine, or other
publication entered as second class matter by the post office department;
      (3)   Any room, house, building, boat, vehicle, structure, or place where
beer or intoxicating liquor is manufactured, sold, bartered, possessed, or kept
in violation of law and all property kept and used in maintaining the same, and
all property designed for the unlawful manufacture or beer, or intoxicating
liquor and beer, or intoxicating liquor contained in the room, house, building,
boat, structure, or place described in this division (3) where the operation of
that place substantially interferes with public decency, sobriety, peace, and
good order. “Violation of Law” includes but is not limited to sales to any
person under the legal drinking age prohibited in R.C. § 4301.22(A) or R.C. §
4301.69(A), and any violation of R.C. § 2913.46 or R.C. § 2925.03.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, corporation, association, partnership,
trustee, lessee, agent or assignee.
   PLACE. Includes any building, erection, or place or any separate part or
portion thereof or the ground itself.
(R.C. § 3767.01)
Cross-reference:
   Penalty and procedure when injunction issued pursuant to division (3) of the
definition of “nuisance” is violated, see §
92.27
§ 93.03 NUISANCES GENERALLY; INJUNCTIONS; VIOLATION; CONTEMPT.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who uses, occupies, establishes, or conducts a
nuisance, or aids and abets in the use, occupancy, establishment, or conduct of
a nuisance; the owner, agent, or lessee of an interest in any such nuisance;
any person who is employed in that nuisance by that owner, agent, or lessee;
and any person who is in control of that nuisance is guilty of maintaining a
nuisance and shall be enjoined as provided in R.C. §§ 3767.03 through 3767.11.
      (2)   A criminal gang that uses or occupies any building, premises, or
real estate, including vacant land, on more than two occasions within a one-
year period to engage in a pattern of criminal gang activity is guilty of
maintaining a nuisance and shall be enjoined as provided in R.C. §§ 3767.03
through 3767.11. As used in this division (A)(2), CRIMINAL GANG and PATTERN OF
CRIMINAL GANG ACTIVITY have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2923.41.
(R.C. § 3767.02)
      (3)   Any building, premises, or real estate, including vacant land, that
is used or occupied by a criminal gang on more than two occasions within a one-
year period to engage in a pattern of criminal gang activity constitutes a
nuisance subject to abatement pursuant to R.C. §§ 3767.01 through 3767.11
(R.C. § 2923.43)
   (B)   In case of the violation of any injunction or closing order granted
under R.C. §§ 3767.01 through 3767.11, or of a restraining order or the
commission of any contempt of court in proceedings under such sections, the
court or, in vacation, a judge thereof, may summarily try and punish the
offender. The trial may be had upon affidavits or either party may demand the
production and oral examination or witnesses.
(R.C. § 3767.07)
   (C)   Whoever is guilty of contempt under this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 3767.99(A))
Statutory reference:
   Abatement of nuisance, bond and notice, see R.C. § 3767.03
   Content of judgment and order, disposition of property seized, see R.C. §
3767.06
   Criminal gang activity, see R.C. §§ 2923.41 et seq.
   Priority of actions, evidence, costs; nuisances relating to liquor permit
premises, see R.C. § 3767.05
   Procedure in injunction action, see R.C. § 3767.04
§ 93.04 MAINTAINING CERTAIN NUISANCES.
   (A)   No person shall erect, continue to use, or maintain a building,
structure, or place for the exercise of a trade, employment, or business or for
keeping or feeding an animal which, by occasioning noxious exhalations or
noisome or offensive smells, becomes injurious to the health, comfort, or
property of individuals or of the public.
   (B)   No person shall cause or allow offal, filth, or noisome substances to
be collected or remain in any place to the damage or prejudice of others or of
the public.
   (C)   No person shall unlawfully obstruct or impede the passage of a
navigable river, harbor, or collection of water, or corrupt or render
unwholesome or impure a watercourse, stream of water, or unlawfully divert such
watercourse from its natural course or state to the injury or prejudice of
others.
   (D)   Persons who are engaged in agriculture-related activities, as
“agriculture” is defined in R.C. § 519.01, and who are conducting those
activities outside the municipality, in accordance with generally accepted
agricultural practices, and in such a manner so as not to have a substantial,
adverse effect on the public health, safety, or welfare, are exempt from
divisions (A) and (B) of this section and from any ordinances, resolutions,
rules, or other enactments of the municipality that prohibit excessive noise.
(R.C. § 3767.13)
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 3767.99(C))
§ 93.05 COLLECTION OF COST OF ABATING DANGEROUS PROPERTY CONDITION; INJUNCTION;
REHABILITATION.
   (A)   Collection of costs of abating dangerous property conditions.
      (1)   As used in this division (A):
         ABATEMENT ACTIVITY. Each instance of any of the following:
            1.   Removing, repairing, or securing insecure, unsafe,
structurally defective, abandoned, deserted, or open and vacant buildings or
other structures;
            2.   Making emergency corrections of hazardous conditions;
            3.   Abatement of any nuisance by the municipality or its agent
pursuant to division (A)(5) of this section.
         TOTAL COST. Any costs incurred due to the use of employees, materials,
or equipment of the municipality or its agent pursuant to division (A)(5) of
this section, any costs arising out of contracts for labor, materials, or
equipment, and costs of service of notice or publication required under this
section.
      (2)   The municipality or its agent pursuant to division (A)(5) of this
section may collect the total cost of abatement activities by any of the
methods prescribed in division (A)(2)(a), (A)(2)(b), or (A)(2)(c) of this
section.
         (a)   For each abatement activity in which costs are incurred, the
Clerk of the legislative authority of the municipality or its agent pursuant to
division (A)(5) of this section may certify the total costs of each abatement
activity, together with the parcel number or another proper description of the
lands on which the abatement activity occurred, the date the costs were
incurred for each abatement activity, and the name of the owner of record at
the time the costs were incurred for each abatement activity, to the County
Auditor who shall place the costs as a charge upon the tax list and duplicate.
The costs are a lien upon such lands from and after the date the costs were
incurred. The costs shall be collected as other taxes and returned to the
municipality or its agent pursuant to division (A)(5) of this section, as
directed by the Clerk of the legislative authority in the certification of the
total costs or in an affidavit from the agent delivered to the County Auditor
or County Treasurer. The placement of the costs on the tax list and duplicate
relates back to, and is effective in priority, as of the date the costs were
incurred, provided that the municipality or its agent pursuant to division (A)
(5) of this section certifies the total costs within one year from the date the
costs were incurred. If a lien placed on a parcel of land pursuant to this
division is extinguished as provided in division (A)(8) of this section, the
municipality may pursue the remedy available under division (A)(2)(b) of this
section to recoup the costs incurred with respect to that parcel from any
person that held title to the parcel at the time the costs were incurred.
         (b)   The municipality or its agent pursuant to division (A)(5) of
this section may commence a civil action to recover the total costs from the
person that held title to the parcel at the time the costs were incurred.
         (c)   The municipality or its agent pursuant to division (A)(5) of
this section may file a lien on a parcel of land for the total costs incurred
under this section with respect to the parcel by filing a written affidavit
with the County Recorder of the county in which the parcel is located that
states the parcel number, the total costs incurred with respect to the parcel,
and the date such costs were incurred. The municipality or its agent may pursue
a foreclosure action to enforce the lien in a court of competent jurisdiction
or, pursuant to R.C. §§ 323.65 to 323.79, with the Board of Revision. The
municipality or its agent may elect to acquire the parcel by indicating such an
election in the complaint for foreclosure or in an amended complaint. Upon the
entry of a decree of foreclosure, the County Sheriff shall advertise and offer
the property for sale on at least one occasion. The minimum bid with regard to
the sale of the foreclosed property shall equal the sum of the taxes,
penalties, interest, costs, and assessments due and payable on the property,
the total costs incurred by the municipality or its agent with respect to the
property, and any associated court costs and interest as authorized by law. An
owner of the property may redeem the property by paying the minimum bid within
ten days after the entry of the decree of foreclosure. If an owner fails to so
redeem the property, and if the parcel is not sold for want of a minimum bid,
the property shall be disposed of as follows:
            1.   If the municipality or its agent elects to acquire the
property, the parcel shall be transferred to the municipality or its agent as
if the property were transferred by all owners in title to the municipality or
its agent in lieu of foreclosure as provided in R.C. § 5722.10;
            2.   If the municipality or its agent does not elect to acquire the
property, the parcel shall be forfeited to the state or to a political
subdivision or school district as provided in R.C. Chapter 5723.
            3.   When the municipality or its agent acquires property as
provided in this division (A)(2)(c), the property shall not be subject to
foreclosure or forfeiture under R.C. § 323.25 or R.C. Chapter 5721 or 5723, and
any lien on the property for costs incurred under this division (A) or for any
unpaid taxes, penalties, interest, charges, or assessments shall be
extinguished.
      (3)   This division (A) applies to any action taken by the municipality
or its agent pursuant to division (A)(5) of this section pursuant to R.C. §
715.26 or pursuant to Section 3 of Article XVIII, Ohio Constitution.
      (4)   (a)   The municipality or its agent pursuant to division (A)(5) of
this section shall not certify to the County Auditor for placement upon the tax
list and duplicate and the County Auditor shall not place upon the tax list and
duplicate as a charge against the land the costs of any abatement activity
undertaken under division (A)(2) of this section if any of the following apply:
            1.   The abatement activity occurred on land that has been
transferred or sold to an electing subdivision as defined in R.C. § 5722.01,
regardless of whether the electing subdivision is still the owner of the land,
and the abatement activity occurred on a date prior to the transfer or
confirmation of sale to the electing subdivision.
            2.   The abatement activity occurred on land that has been sold to
a purchaser at sheriff’s sale or auditor’s sale, the abatement activity
occurred on a date prior to the confirmation of sale, and the purchaser is not
the owner of record of the land immediately prior to the judgment of
foreclosure nor any of the following:
               a.   A member of that owner’s immediate family;
               b.   A person with a power of attorney appointed by that owner
who subsequently transfers the land to the owner;
               c.   A sole proprietorship owned by that owner or a member of
that owner’s immediate family;
               d.   A partnership, trust, business trust, corporation, or
association of which the owner or a member of the owner’s immediate family owns
or controls directly or indirectly more than 50%.
            3.   The abatement activity is taken on land that has been
forfeited to this state for delinquent taxes, unless the owner of record
redeems the land.
         (b)   Upon valid written notice to the County Auditor by any owner
possessing an ownership interest of record of the land or by an electing
subdivision previously in the chain of title of the land that the costs of an
abatement activity undertaken under division (A)(2) of this section was
certified for placement or placed upon the tax list and duplicate as a charge
against the land in violation of this division, the County Auditor shall
promptly remove such charge from the tax duplicate. This written notice to the
County Auditor shall include all of the following:
            1.   The parcel number of the land;
            2.   The common address of the land;
            3.   The date of the recording of the transfer of the land to the
owner or electing subdivision;
            4.   The charge allegedly placed in violation of this division.
      (5)   The municipality may enter into an agreement with a County Land
Reutilization Corporation organized under R.C. Chapter 1724 wherein the County
Land Reutilization Corporation agrees to act as the agent of the municipality
in connection with removing, repairing, or securing insecure, unsafe,
structurally defective, abandoned, deserted, or open and vacant buildings or
other structures, making emergency corrections of hazardous conditions, or
abating any nuisance, including high weeds, overgrown brush, and trash and
debris from vacant lots. The total costs of such actions may be collected by
the corporation pursuant to division (A)(2) of this section, and shall be paid
to the corporation if it paid or incurred such costs and has not been
reimbursed by the owner of record at the time of the action or any other party
with a recorded interest in the land.
      (6)   In the case of the lien of a County Land Reutilization Corporation
that is the agent of the municipality, a notation shall be placed on the tax
list and duplicate showing the amount of the lien ascribed specifically to the
agent’s total costs. The agent has standing to pursue a separate cause of
action for money damages to satisfy the lien or pursue a foreclosure action in
a court of competent jurisdiction or with the Board of Revision to enforce the
lien without regard to occupancy. For purposes of a foreclosure proceeding by
the County Treasurer for delinquent taxes, this division does not affect the
lien priority as between a County Land Reutilization Corporation and the County
Treasurer, but the corporation’s lien is superior to the lien of any other
lienholder of the property. As to a direct action by a County Land
Reutilization Corporation, the lien for the taxes, assessment, charges, costs,
penalties, and interest on the tax list and duplicate is in all cases superior
to the lien of a County Land Reutilization Corporation, whose lien for total
costs shall be next in priority as against all other interests, except as
provided in division (A)(7) of this section.
      (7)   A County Land Reutilization Corporation acting as an agent of the
municipality under an agreement under this division (A) may, with the County
Treasurer’s consent, petition the court or Board of Revision with jurisdiction
over an action undertaken under division (A)(6) of this section pleading that
the lien of the corporation, as agent, for the total costs shall be superior to
the lien for the taxes, assessments, charges, costs, penalties, and interest.
If the court or Board of Revision determines that the lien is for total costs
paid or incurred by the corporation as such an agent, and that subordinating
the lien for such taxes and other impositions to the lien of the corporation
promotes the expeditious abatement of public nuisances, the court or board may
order the lien for the taxes and other impositions to be subordinate to the
corporation’s lien. The court or board may not subordinate the lien for taxes
and other such impositions to any other liens.
      (8)   (a)   When a parcel of land upon which a lien has been placed under
division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(c) of this section is transferred to a County Land
Reutilization Corporation, the lien on the parcel shall be extinguished if the
lien is for costs or charges that were incurred before the date of the transfer
to the corporation and if the corporation did not incur the costs or charges,
regardless of whether the lien was attached or the costs or charges were
certified before the date of transfer. In such a case, the County Land
Reutilization Corporation and its successors in title shall take title to the
property free and clear of any such lien and shall be immune from liability in
any action to collect such costs or charges.
         (b)   If a County Land Reutilization Corporation takes title to
property before any costs or charges have been certified or any lien has been
placed with respect to the property under division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(c) of
this section, the corporation shall be deemed a bona fide purchaser for value
without knowledge of such costs or lien, regardless of whether the corporation
had actual or constructive knowledge of the costs or lien, and any such lien
shall be void and unenforceable against the corporation and its successors in
title.
      (9)   The municipality or County Land Reutilization Corporation may file
an affidavit with the County Recorder under R.C. § 5301.252 stating the nature
and extent of any proceedings undertaken under this division (A). Such an
affidavit may include a legal description of a parcel or, in lieu thereof, the
common address of the parcel and the permanent parcel number to which such
address applies.
(R.C. § 715.261)
   (B)   Injunction may be granted for failure to comply. No person shall
erect, alter, repair or maintain any residential building, office, mercantile
building, workshop or factory, including a public or private garage, or other
structure, within the municipality unless all ordinances or resolutions enacted
pursuant to R.C. §§ 715.26 through 715.30 are fully complied with. In the event
any building or structure is being erected, constructed, altered, repaired or
maintained in violation of such ordinances or resolutions, or there is imminent
threat of violation, the municipality or the owner of any contiguous or
neighboring property who would be especially damaged by such violation, in
addition to any other remedies provided by law, may institute a suit for
injunction to prevent or terminate such violation.
(R.C. § 715.30)
   (C)   Appropriation of property to rehabilitate; demolition or sale.
      (1)   In order to rehabilitate a building or structure that the
municipality has determined to be a blighted property as defined in R.C. §
1.08, the municipality may appropriate, in the manner provided by R.C. §§
163.01 through 163.22, any such building or structure and the real property of
which it is a part. The municipality shall rehabilitate the building or
structure or cause it to be rehabilitated within two years after the
appropriation so that the building or structure is no longer a public nuisance,
insecure, unsafe, structurally defective, unhealthful or unsanitary, or a
threat to the public health, safety, or welfare, in violation of a building
code or ordinance adopted under R.C. § 731.231. Any building or structure
appropriated pursuant to this division which is not rehabilitated within two
years shall be demolished.
      (2)   If, during the rehabilitation process, the municipality retains
title to the building or structure and the real property of which it is a part,
then within 180 days after the rehabilitation is complete, the municipality
shall appraise the rehabilitated building or structure and the real property of
which it is a part, and shall sell the building or structure and property at
public auction. The municipality shall advertise the public auction in a
newspaper of general circulation in the municipality once a week for three
consecutive weeks, or as provided in R.C. § 7.16, prior to the date of sale.
The municipality shall sell the building or structure and real property to the
highest and best bidder. No property that the municipality acquires pursuant to
this division shall be leased.
(R.C. § 719.012)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of technical ordinances and codes by reference, see R.C. § 731.231
§ 93.06 TRIMMING OF TREES AND SHRUBBERY TO PREVENT OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to plant, grow, or maintain any
shade tree or trees or shrubbery which will obstruct the proper distribution of
light from street lamps or which will obstruct the view of traffic approaching
an intersection by operators of vehicles approaching such intersection from
another direction.
   (B)   All trees shall be trimmed so as to have a clear height of ten feet
above the surface of sidewalks and 12 feet above the surface of the street or
roadway, and the branches of all trees in front of and along lots or lands near
which street lights are placed shall be trimmed so as not to obstruct the free
passage of light from such street lights to the street and sidewalk.
   (C)   The legislative authority shall cause a written notice to be given to
property owners ordering them to trim or remove trees and shrubbery so that the
trees and shrubbery conform to divisions (A) and (B).
   (D)   If the property owner fails to trim or remove the trees and shrubbery
as ordered, the legislative authority may cause the trees and shrubbery to be
trimmed or removed as ordered, and the cost thereof shall be a lien upon such
real estate.
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate shade trees, see R.C. § 715.20
SEPTIC TANKS, CESSPOOLS, AND REFUSE
§ 93.20 LOCATION OF PRIVY VAULTS, CESSPOOLS, AND SEPTIC TANKS.
   No owner, occupant, or person in charge of any premises situated as to
permit connection with any sanitary sewer shall maintain or permit to be
maintained on or in connection with such premises any privy vault, cesspool,
septic tank, or other repository for human excreta.
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate privies, see R.C. § 715.40
   Power to regulate refuse disposal, see R.C. § 715.43
§ 93.21 UNSANITARY VAULTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person being the owner, lessor, occupant, or
person in charge of any premises upon which a privy vault, cesspool, or septic
tank is located to permit such vault, pool, or tank, or any building, fixture,
or device appurtenant thereto, to become foul, noisome, filthy, or offensive to
neighboring property owners.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22 REMOVAL OF CONTENTS OF VAULT.
   Whenever any part of the waste in any privy vault or cesspool extends to a
point less than three feet below the surface of the ground adjacent thereto, or
whenever use of any such vault or cesspool is abandoned or where such use or
maintenance is prohibited by ordinance or health order, the owner, lessor,
occupant or person in charge of such premises shall cause the vault or cesspool
to be emptied of its contents, thoroughly cleaned, and disinfected, and if
abandoned, to be filled with clean earth or mineral matter to the level of the
adjacent ground.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.23 DEPOSIT OF DEAD ANIMALS, OFFAL UPON LAND OR WATER.
   (A)   No person shall put the carcass of a dead animal or the offal from a
slaughter house, butcher’s establishment, packing house or fish house, or
spoiled meat, spoiled fish, or other putrid substance or the contents of a
privy vault, upon or into a lake, river, bay, creek, pond, canal, road, street,
alley, lot, meadow, public ground, market place, or common. No owner or
occupant of such place shall knowingly permit such thing to remain therein to
the annoyance of any citizen or neglect to remove or abate the nuisance
occasioned thereby within 24 hours after knowledge of the existence thereof, or
after notice thereof in writing from the designated municipal official.
(R.C. § 3767.16)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3767.99(D))
§ 93.24 DEFILING SPRING OR WELL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously put a dead animal, carcass, or part
thereof, or other putrid, nauseous, or offensive substance into, or befoul, a
well, spring, brook, or branch of running water, or a reservoir of a
waterworks, of which use is or may be made for domestic purposes.
(R.C. § 3767.18)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3767.99(D))
§ 93.25 DUMPING OF REFUSE IN MUNICIPALITY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, cause to be dumped or permit to
be dumped on any publicly or privately owned land or water in the municipality
any paper, brush, rubbish, tin cans, vegetation, garbage, or refuse of any
kind, without first having obtained a written license from the Mayor or other
designated municipal officer to do so. The Mayor or other designated municipal
officer shall issue a license permitting dumping of designated materials when
it appears that filling of the land is necessary and that the material
deposited will be immediately covered with earth or will not be objectionable
to the citizens of the neighborhood, or injurious to health, safety and general
welfare of the citizens.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.26 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon, discard, or knowingly permit to remain on
premises under the person’s control, in a place accessible to children, any
abandoned or discarded icebox, refrigerator, or other airtight or semi-airtight
container which has a capacity of one and one-half cubic feet or more and an
opening of 50 square inches or more and which has a door or lid equipped with a
hinge, latch, or other fastening device capable of securing such door or lid,
without rendering the equipment harmless to human life by removing such hinges,
latches or other hardware which may cause a person to be confined therein. This
section shall not apply to an icebox, refrigerator, or other airtight or semi-
airtight container located in that part of a building occupied by a dealer,
warehouse or repairer.
(R.C. § 3767.29)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 3767.99(B))
§ 93.27 DISCARDING LITTER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, regardless of intent, shall deposit litter or cause litter
to be deposited on any public property, on private property not owned by the
person, or in or on waters of the state, unless one of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is directed to do so by a public official as part of a
litter collection drive;
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the person
deposits the litter in a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents its being
carried away by the elements; or
      (3)   The person is issued a permit or license covering the litter
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3734 or 6111.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly deposit litter,
or cause it to be deposited, in a litter receptacle located on any public
property or on any private property not owned by the person, unless one of the
following applies:
      (1)   The litter was generated or located on the property on which the
litter receptacle is located;
      (2)   The person is directed to do so by a public official as part of a
litter collection drive;
      (3)   The person is directed to do so by a person whom the person
reasonably believes to have the privilege to use the litter receptacle; or
      (4)   The litter consists of any of the following:
         (a)   The contents of a litter bag or container of a type and size
customarily carried and used in a motor vehicle;
         (b)   The contents of an ash tray of a type customarily installed or
carried and used in a motor vehicle;
         (c)   Beverage containers and food sacks, wrappings, and containers of
a type and in an amount that reasonably may be expected to be generated during
routine commuting or business or recreational travel by a motor vehicle; or
         (d)   Beverage containers, food sacks, wrappings, containers, and
other materials of a type and in an amount that reasonably may be expected to
be generated during a routine day by a person and deposited in a litter
receptacle by a casual passerby.
   (C)   (1)   As used in division (B)(1) of this section, PUBLIC PROPERTY
includes any private property open to the public for the conduct of business,
the provision of a service, or upon the payment of a fee but does not include
any private property to which the public otherwise does not have a right of
access.
      (2)   As used in division (B)(4) of this section, CASUAL PASSERBY means a
person who does not have depositing litter in a litter receptacle as the
person’s primary reason for traveling to or by the property on which the litter
receptacle is located.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      AUXILIARY CONTAINER. Means a bag, can, cup, food or beverage service
item, container, keg, bottle, or other packaging to which all of the following
apply:
         (a)   It is designed to be either single use or reusable.
         (b)   It is made of cloth, paper, plastic, foamed or expanded plastic,
cardboard, corrugated material, aluminum, metal, glass, postconsumer recycled
material, or similar materials or substances, including coated, laminated, or
multilayered substrates.
         (c)   It is designed for consuming, transporting, or protecting
merchandise, food, or beverages from or at a food service operation, retail
food establishment, grocery, or any other type of retail, manufacturing, or
distribution establishment.
      DEPOSIT. To throw, drop, discard, or place.
      LITTER. Includes garbage, trash, waste, rubbish, ashes, cans, bottles,
wire, paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts, furniture, glass, auxiliary
containers, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
      LITTER RECEPTACLE. A dumpster, trash can, trash bin, garbage can, or
similar container in which litter is deposited for removal.
   (E)   This section may be enforced by any sheriff, deputy sheriff, police
officer of a municipal corporation, police constable or officer of a township,
or township or joint police district, wildlife officer designated under R.C. §
1531.13, natural resources officer appointed under R.C. § 1501.24, forest-fire
investigator appointed under R.C. § 1503.09, conservancy district police
officer, inspector of nuisances of a county, or any other law enforcement
officer within the law enforcement officer’s jurisdiction.
(R.C. § 3767.32)
   (F)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. The sentencing court may, in addition to or in
lieu of the penalty provided in this division (F), require a person who
violates this section to remove litter from any public or private property or
in or on waters of the state.
(R.C. § 3767.99(C))
§ 93.28 POWER OF THE MUNICIPALITY TO FILL OR DRAIN LAND.
   (A)   The municipality may fill or drain any lot or land within its limits
on which water at any time becomes stagnant, remove all putrid substances from
any lot, and remove all obstructions from culverts, covered drains, or private
property, laid in any natural watercourse, creek, brook, or branch, which
obstruct the water naturally flowing therein, causing it to flow back or become
stagnant, in a way prejudicial to the health, comfort, or convenience of any of
the citizens of the neighborhood. If such culverts or drains are of
insufficient capacity, the municipality may make them of such capacity as
reasonable to accommodate the flow of such water at all times.
   (B)   The legislative authority may, by resolution, direct the owner to fill
or drain such lot, remove such putrid substance or other obstructions, and if
necessary, enlarge such culverts or covered drains to meet the requirements
thereof.
   (C)   After service of a copy of such resolution, or after a publication
thereof in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality or as
provided in R.C. § 7.16, for two consecutive weeks, the owner, or the owner’s
agent or attorney, shall comply with the directions of the resolution within
the time therein specified.
   (D)   In case of the failure or refusal of such owner to comply with the
resolution, the work required thereby may be done at the expense of the
municipality, and the amount of money so expended shall be recovered from the
owner before any court of competent jurisdiction. This expense from the time of
the adoption of the resolution shall be a lien on such lot, which may be
enforced by suit in the Court of Common Pleas, and like proceedings may be had
as directed in relation to the improvement of streets.
   (E)   The officers connected with the Health Department of the municipality
shall see that this section is strictly and promptly enforced.
(R.C. § 715.47)
WEEDS AND LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
§ 93.40 KEEPING DOWN WEEDS.
   (A)   Any person owning or having charge of land within the municipality
shall keep such property free and clear from all noxious weeds and rank
vegetation and shall be required to cut all such weeds and vegetation on the
lots owned or controlled by him or her at least twice in every year, once
between June 1 and July 1 and once between August 1 and September 1.
   (B)   Noxious weeds and rank vegetation shall include but not be limited to:
      (1)   Shatter cane (Sorghum bicolor).
      (2)   Russian thistle (Salsola Kali var. tenuifolia).
      (3)   Johnsongrass (Sorghum halepense).
      (4)   Wild parsnip (Pastinaca sativa).
      (5)   Grapevines (Vitis spp.), when growing in groups of 100 or more and
not pruned, sprayed, cultivated, or otherwise maintained for two consecutive
years.
      (6)   Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense).
      (7)   Poison hemlock (Conium maculatum).
      (8)   Cressleaf groundsel (Senecio glabellus).
      (9)   Musk thistle (Carduus nutans).
      (10)   Purple loosestrife (Lythrum salicaria).
      (11)   Mile-a-minute weed (Polygonum perfoliatum).
      (12)   Giant hogweed (Heracleum mantegazzianum).
      (13)   Apple of Peru (Nicandra physalodes).
      (14)   Marestail (Conyza canadensis)
      (15)   Kochia (Bassia scoparia).
      (16)   Palmer amaranth (Amaranthus palmeri).
      (17)   Kudzu (Pueraria montana var. lobata).
      (18)   Japanese knotweed (Polygonum cuspidatum).
      (19)   Yellow groove bamboo (Phyllostachys aureasculata), when the plant
has spread from its original premise of planting and is not being maintained.
      (20)   Field bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis).
      (21)   Heart-podded hoary cress (Lepidium draba sub. draba).
      (22)   Hairy whitetop or ballcress (Lepidium appelianum).
      (23)   Perennial sowthistle (Sonchus arvensis).
      (24)   Russian knapweed (Acroptilon repens).
      (25)   Leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula).
      (26)   Hedge bindweed (Calystegia sepium).
      (27)   Serrated tussock (Nassella trichotoma).
      (28)   Columbus grass (Sorghum x almum).
      (29)   Musk thistle (Carduus nutans).
      (30)   Forage kochia (Bassia prostrata).
      (31)   Water hemp (Amaranthus tuberculatus).
(O.A.C. § 901:5-37-01)
      (32)   Bushes of the species of tall, common, or European barberry,
further known as berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties; and
      (33)   Any weeds, grass, or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers, or
other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding 12 inches.
§ 93.41 NOTICE TO OWNER TO CUT NOXIOUS WEEDS, REMOVE LITTER; SERVICE.
   (A)   Upon written information that noxious weeds are growing on lands in
the municipality and are about to spread or mature seeds, the legislative
authority shall cause written notice to be served on the owner, lessee, agent,
or tenant having charge of such land, notifying him or her that noxious weeds
are growing on such lands and that they must be cut and destroyed within five
days after service of such notice.
   (B)   Upon a finding by the legislative authority that litter has been
placed on lands in a municipality, and has not been removed, and constitutes a
detriment to public health, the legislative authority shall cause a written
notice to be served upon the owner and, if different, upon the lessee, agent,
or tenant having charge of the littered land, notifying him or her that litter
is on the land, and that it must be collected and removed within 15 days after
the service of the notice.
   (C)   As used in this section and §
93.43, LITTER includes any garbage, waste, peelings of vegetables or fruits,
rubbish, ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes, parts of
automobiles, wagons, furniture, glass, oil of an unsightly or unsanitary
nature, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
   (D)   If the owner or other person having charge of the land is a
nonresident of the municipality whose address is known, the notice shall be
sent to his or her address by certified mail. If the address of the owner or
other person having charge of the land is unknown it is sufficient to publish
the notice once in a newspaper of general circulation in the county.
   (E)   This section does not apply to land being used under a municipal
building or construction permit or license, a municipal permit or license, or a
conditional zoning permit or variance to operate a junkyard, scrap metal
processing facility, or similar business, or a permit or license issued
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3734, R.C. §§ 4737.05 through 4737.12, or R.C. Chapter
6111.
(R.C. § 731.51)
§ 93.42 FEES FOR SERVICE AND RETURN.
   The Police Chief, any police officer, or Clerk of the legislative authority
may make service and return of the notice provided for in §
93.41 and shall be allowed the same fees as that provided for service and
return of summons in civil cases before a magistrate.
(R.C. § 731.52)
§ 93.43 PROCEDURE WHEN OWNER FAILS TO COMPLY WITH NOTICE.
   If the owner, lessee, agent, or tenant having charge of the lands mentioned
in §
93.41 fails to comply with the notice required by such section, the legislative
authority shall cause such noxious weeds to be cut and destroyed or such litter
removed and may employ the necessary labor to perform the task. All expenses
incurred shall, when approved by the legislative authority, be paid out of the
money in the treasury of the municipality not otherwise appropriated.
(R.C. § 731.53)
§ 93.44 WRITTEN RETURN TO COUNTY AUDITOR; AMOUNT AS A LIEN UPON PROPERTY.
   The legislative authority shall make a written return to the County Auditor
of their action under §§
93.41,
93.42, and
93.43, with a statement of the charges for their services, the amount paid for
labor, the fees of the officers serving the notices, and a proper description
of the premises. These amounts, when allowed, shall be entered upon the tax
duplicate and be a lien upon such lands from and after the date of entry and be
collected as other taxes and returned to the municipality with the General
Fund.
(R.C. § 731.54)
UNCLEAN HABITATIONS
§ 93.60 PERMITTING UNCLEAN HABITATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to lease, let, permit the occupancy of,
permit the continuation of the occupancy of, or continue the occupancy of a
structure or building or any portion thereof used for human habitation, unless
such structure or building or portion thereof is free from unclean and
unsanitary conditions as defined in §
93.61 and unless the provisions of the subsequent sections are complied with.
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Duties of the landlord, see R.C. § 5321.04
   Duties of the tenant, see R.C. § 5321.05
   Injunction for failure to comply, see R.C. § 715.30
   Regulating occupied buildings, see R.C. § 715.29
§ 93.61 WHEN HABITATIONS ARE DEEMED UNSANITARY.
   A structure, building, or any portion thereof used for human habitation
shall be deemed to be in an unclean and unsanitary condition when any of the
following conditions exist:
   (A)   Infection with communicable disease;
   (B)   Absence of the toilet facilities required by law or ordinance;
   (C)   Presence of sewer gas;
   (D)   Dampness or wetness due to lack of repair;
   (E)   Accumulation of dirt, filth, litter, refuse, or other offensive or
dangerous substances likely to cause sickness among the occupants;
   (F)   Defective or improperly used drainage, plumbing, or ventilation
facilities likely to cause sickness.
§ 93.62 ORDER FOR ABATEMENT OR VACATION OF PREMISES.
   If the local Board of Health ascertains from examination or reports of its
inspectors or sanitary officers or otherwise determines that a public nuisance,
as defined in §
93.61, exists in or upon any structure or building, or portion thereof, and has
notified the owner, occupant, or person in charge of the premises to abate the
nuisance or vacate the premises, it shall be unlawful to occupy or permit the
occupancy of the premises or portion thereof until the nuisance has been
completely abated and the building or portion thereof has been rendered clean
and sanitary in accordance with the terms of the notices of the Board of
Health.
§ 93.63 ENFORCEMENT OF VACATION ORDER BY FIRE CHIEF OR POLICE CHIEF.
   When the notice or order of vacation has not been complied with, and the
Board of Health certifies such fact to the Fire Chief or Police Chief, together
with a copy of the order of notice, it shall be the duty of the Fire Chief or
Police Chief to enforce such notice or order of vacation and to cause the
premises to be vacated in accordance with the terms of the notice or order.
§ 93.64 ENFORCEMENT THROUGH COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   Whenever the Board of Health certifies to the municipal legal officer any
failure to comply with any order or notice of vacation, with the request that
civil proceedings for the enforcement thereof be instituted, the municipal
legal officer shall institute any and all proceedings, either legal or
equitable, that may be appropriate or necessary for the enforcement of the
order or notice and the abatement of the nuisance against which the order or
notice was directed. These suits or proceedings shall be brought in the name of
the municipality. Proceedings under this section shall not relieve any party
defendant from criminal prosecution or punishment under this code or any other
criminal law or ordinance in force within the municipality.
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, for which another penalty is
not already provided, shall be subject to the penalty prescribed in §
10.99.
CHAPTER 94: RIGHT-OF-WAY REGULATIONS; STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Right-of-Way Regulations
   
94.001   Purpose and scope of subchapter
   
94.002   Definitions
   
94.003   Types of permits; grant of authority
   
94.004   Procedure for permits; terms
   
94.005   Criteria for granting permits
   
94.006   Obligations of permittee; conditions of permits
   
94.007   Permit fees and auditing
   
94.008   Notice of right-of-way work; joint planning
   
94.009   Use of permittee facilities
   
94.010   Adoption of regulations
   
94.011   Indemnity
   
94.012   Removal of facilities
   
94.013   Remedies and revocation
   
94.014   Reservation of rights
   
94.015   Street vacation
   
94.016   Temporary movement of facilities
   
94.017   Permanent removal or relocation of facilities
   
94.018   Foreclosure and receivership
   
94.019   Nonenforcement and waivers by municipality
   
94.020   Controlling law
   
94.021   Captions
Streets and Sidewalks; General Regulations
   
94.030   Street or sidewalk obstruction, damage, or injury
   
94.031   Duty to keep sidewalks in repair and clean of ice and snow
   
94.032   Ramped curbing for persons with disabilities
   
94.033   Altering or injuring marker or monument
Construction and Repair
   
94.045   Construction and repair may be required
   
94.046   Resolution of necessity
   
94.047   Notice to construct or repair
   
94.048   Assessments of costs against owner
   
94.049   Proceedings may include different owners
   
94.050   General provisions
   
94.051   Cleaning and repair
   
94.052   Permits and fees
   
94.053   Criteria for condemning sidewalks, driveways, curbs, and gutters
   
94.054   Construction specifications
Changes in Streets
   
94.070   Change of name, vacating or narrowing streets by petition
   
94.071   Change of name, vacating or narrowing streets without petition
   
94.072   Notice; exception
   
94.073   Publication of notice
   
94.074   Effect of order of vacation
   
94.075   Effect on public utility easements
Numbering Structures
   
94.090   Numbers required; purpose
   
94.091   Number location, size, and contrasts
   
94.092   Additional numbers for deep setbacks
   
94.093   Police Chief to determine special number locations
   
94.094   Restriction on use of script numbers
   
94.095   New buildings to display numbers
   
94.096   Records
Special Events in Public Right-of-Way
   
94.120   General provisions
   
94.121   Special event permit application
   
94.122   Special event application fees
   
94.123   Approval of an application
   
94.124   Considerations for approval
   
94.125   Denial of an application
   
94.126   Revocation of a special event permit
   
94.127   Application
   
94.128   Application fee
Additional Provisions
   
94.140   Conditions precedent to improving streets
   
94.141   Opening permit required
   
94.142   Application and cash deposit
   
94.143   Restoration of pavement
   
94.144   Barriers around excavations
   
94.145   Warning lights
   
94.146   Sidewalk construction by the municipality
   
94.147   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
94.148   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
94.149   Flagpole along right-of-way
 
   
94.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Subdivision regulations:
      Bridges, see §
152.073
      Generally, see
Ch. 152
      Street lighting, see §
152.068
      Streets, see §
152.067
   Zoning regulations:
      Generally, see
Ch. 153
      Landscaping and screening, see §§
153.275 et seq.
      Off-street parking and loading, see §§
153.230 et seq.
      Signs, see §§
153.250 et seq.
RIGHT-OF-WAY REGULATIONS
§ 94.001 PURPOSE AND SCOPE OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide requirements for the use
or occupation of any and all rights-of-way in the municipality, the issuance of
permits to persons for such use or occupancy and to set forth the policies of
the municipality related thereto.
   (B)   This subchapter does not take the place of any franchise, license, or
permit which may be additionally required by law. Each permittee shall obtain
any and all such additional franchises, licenses, or permits necessary to the
operation and conduct of its business.
   (C)   The Director of Service (hereinafter Director) is hereby granted the
authority and duty of enforcing the provisions of this subchapter.
   (D)   No person shall use, occupy, own, or operate facilities in, under, or
over any rights-of-way or any public property within the municipality unless
such person first obtains a permit and conforms to the requirements set forth
therein and in this subchapter; provided, however, that permits shall not be
required for residential related purposes.
   (E)   The policy of the municipality with regard to rights-of-way is hereby
declared to be:
      (1)   To promote public safety and protect public property;
      (2)   To promote the utilization of rights-of-way for the public health,
safety, and welfare and to promote economic development in the municipality;
      (3)   To promote of the availability of a wide range of utility,
communication, and other services, including the rapid deployment of new
technologies and innovative services, to the municipality’s citizens and
taxpayers at reasonable rates;
      (4)   To promote cooperation among the municipality and permittee in the
occupation of rights- of-way, and work therein, in order to minimize public
inconvenience during right-of-way work, and uneconomic, unneeded, and unsightly
duplication of facilities;
      (5)   To ensure adequate public compensation for private use of the
rights-of-way and the regulation thereof;
      (6)   To promote and require reasonable accommodation of all uses of
rights-of-way and to establish the following priority of use of rights-of-way,
when all requested usage of rights-of-way by permittee cannot be accommodated:
         (a)   First priority: use by the municipality;
         (b)   Second priority: use by another governmental entity with
municipality’s concurrence or other uses required by law;
         (c)   Third priority: franchise permittee shall have third priority;
         (d)   Fourth priority: general permittee shall have fourth priority;
and
         (e)   Fifth priority: special permittee shall have fifth priority;
provided, however, that the Director may reasonably require right-of-way
permittee to cooperate to accommodate use by other permittee and provided
further that the Director may alter this priority when the Director reasonably
determines a deviation herefrom to be in the public interest.
      (7)   To protect the value of private property by setting minimum
aesthetic standards for uses of public property.
   (F)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to limit the
municipality’s use of facilities owned, controlled, or operated by the
municipality or any of its operations.
   (G)   Unless otherwise specifically stated in a permit or in a franchise,
all permits granted hereunder shall be non-exclusive.
(Ord. 97-105, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person applying for a permit hereunder.
   APPROVED. Approval by the municipality pursuant to this subchapter or any
regulations adopted hereunder.
   BEST EFFORTS. The best reasonable efforts under the circumstances, taking
into consideration, among other appropriate matters, safety, expedition,
available technology, and human resources and cost.
   COUNCIL. The governing body of the municipality.
   DIRECTOR. The Service Director as set forth in the Village Charter.
   FORCE MAJEURE. A strike, acts of God, acts of public enemies, orders of any
kind of a government of the United States of America or of the state or any of
their departments, agencies, or political subdivisions; riots, epidemics,
landslides, lightning, earthquakes, fires, tornadoes, storms, floods, civil
disturbances, explosions, partial or entire failure of utilities or any other
cause or event not reasonably within the control of the disabled party, but
only to the extent the disabled party notifies the other party as soon as
practicable regarding such FORCE MAJEURE and then for only so long as and to
the extent that the FORCE MAJEURE prevents compliance or causes non-compliance
with the provisions hereof.
   FRANCHISE. A valid franchise pursuant to the Constitution and laws of the
state and/or the United States, extended by the municipality and accepted by
any person, pursuant to which such person may operate or provide utility, cable
television, communications, or other such services to consumers within the
municipality.
   GROSS REVENUES. All cash, credit, property of any kind or nature, or other
consideration received directly or indirectly by a general permittee arising
from or attributable to the sale or exchange of any services within the
municipality in any way derived from the operation of its facilities in or use
of the rights-of-way.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Waynesville, Ohio, or, as appropriate in the
case of specific provisions of this subchapter, any board, bureau, authority,
agency, commission, department of, or any other entity of or acting on behalf
of, the village, or any officer, official, employee, representative, or agent
thereof, the designee of any of the foregoing, or any successor thereto.
   OPEN VIDEO SYSTEM. A term used but not defined in the Federal
Telecommunications Act of 1996. It is understood to mean infrastructure for
distributing video and audio signals, a majority of whose bandwidth is leased
to independent providers of programming, other than the owner of the
infrastructure.
   PERMIT. The non-exclusive grant of authority to use or occupy all or a
portion of municipality’s rights-of-way granted pursuant to this subchapter.
   PERMITTEE. Any person issued a permit pursuant to this subchapter to use or
occupy all or a portion of the rights-of-way in accordance with the provisions
of this subchapter and the permit.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any real property, other than a right-of-way, except for
the last sentence of the definition of “right-of-way” in this section, owned by
the municipality.
   REGULATION. Any rule adopted by the Director pursuant to the authority of
this subchapter, pursuant to the procedure set forth in §
94.010, to carry out its purpose and intent.
   RESIDENTIAL RELATED PURPOSES. Residential use of right-of-way for mailboxes,
decorative purposes, or any curb cuts and driveways.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The surface of and the space above and below any public
street, public road, public highway, public freeway, public lane, public path,
public way, public alley, public court, public sidewalk, public boulevard,
public parkway, public drive, or any public easement or right-of-way now or
hereafter held by the municipality which shall, in accord with its limiting
language and within its proper use and meaning in the sole opinion of the
municipality, entitle a permittee, in accordance with the terms hereof and of
any permit, to the use thereof for the purpose of installing or operating any
poles, wires, cables, transformers, conductors, ducts, lines, mains, conduits,
vaults, manholes, amplifiers, appliances, attachments, or other property or
facilities as may be ordinarily necessary and pertinent to the provision of
utility, cable television, communications, or other services as set forth in
any franchise or any permit. The term shall also include public property, but
only to the extent the use or occupation thereof is specifically granted in a
permit or by ordinance or regulation.
   SUBCHAPTER or THIS SUBCHAPTER. This subchapter of the codified ordinances of
the municipality, as amended from time to time and any regulations adopted
hereunder.
(Ord. 97-105, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 94.003 TYPES OF PERMITS; GRANT OF AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The following type of permits are available:
      (1)   Franchise permit. Permit granted to holders of a valid franchise;
      (2)   General permit. Permit granted to persons who do not hold a
franchise but who desire and are granted authority to utilize rights-of-way
generally; provided, however, that nothing in this subchapter or in any general
permit shall be construed to authorize the permittee to provide any utility,
cable television, communications, or other services for which the municipality
may lawfully require a franchise; and
      (3)   Special permit. Permit granted to persons for a specific, limited
use of the rights-of-way or a specific portion thereof.
   (B)   Any such permit may also allow the use of specified public property
for the uses set forth herein and therein.
   (C)   All permits shall specify the use or uses for which such permits are
granted and contain such other nondiscriminatory terms and conditions as are
appropriate and as are set forth in the regulations.
   (D)   Permits and the rights of permittee thereunder are not transferable
without the express written approval of the municipality.
(Ord. 97-105, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.004 PROCEDURE FOR PERMITS; TERMS.
   (A)   Applicants for franchise permits shall be granted a franchise permit
hereunder which shall be valid so long as the franchise is valid and the
applicable provisions of that franchise and of this subchapter are complied
with; provided, however, that a franchise permit shall only entitle the
franchise permittee to utilize the rights-of-way, in accordance with this
subchapter, for purposes directly related to the provision of the specific
services for which it has a specific franchise. Any other right-of-way use by
such permittee shall require a separate permit of another available type, as
outlined in §
94.003, which shall be granted upon application and compliance with the terms
and standards required.
   (B)   (1)   Applicants for general permits, or renewals thereof, shall file
an application therefor, in such form as the regulations require, along with an
application fee as also set forth in the regulations (which may contain
disparate fees for initial permits and renewal permits). The Director shall
determine if the application is in order and, if so, make a recommendation to
Council as to whether or not, in accordance with the criteria set forth in §
94.005, the applicant should be granted a permit hereunder.
      (2)   Council shall then consider such recommendation and make a final
determination as to whether or not such permit should be granted and if so,
upon what terms and conditions. The term of such permit shall be for five
years. Any person proposing to operate an open video system (OVS) shall be
required to obtain a general permit.
   (C)   Applicants for special permits, or renewals thereof, shall file an
application therefor in such form as the regulations require, along with an
application fee as also set forth in the regulations (which may require
disparate fees for initial permits and renewal permits). The Director shall
determine if the application is in order, and if so, and if the Director also
finds, in accordance with the criteria set forth in §
94.005, that the application should be granted, the Director shall
conditionally grant or renew such a permit. Such conditional special permit
shall become final unless modified or rejected by Council within 30 days of
issuance by the Director. The term of such permits shall be two years unless
the applicant requests a lesser term.
   (D)   Permits for residential related purposes are not required, with the
stipulations that such uses:
      (1)   Exist and continue at the sufferance of the municipality;
      (2)   May not jeopardize or adversely affect the public health, welfare,
morals, or safety;
      (3)   May not interfere with the municipality’s own uses of the rights-
of-way; and
      (4)   Must be modified, moved, or removed, upon notice, when the
municipality determines in its sole judgment that such action is necessary;
provided further, that in an emergency, or upon failure of the responsible
party to respond in a timely fashion, the municipality may do or contract to do
whatever it requires and recover the costs of same as such costs are
recoverable by law.
   (E)   Any applicant may appeal the failure of the Director to grant a permit
or to recommend it to be granted upon terms and conditions acceptable to the
applicant. In order to perfect such appeal, the applicant shall file, within
ten days of the Director’s determination or recommendation or 90 days of the
filing of the application if the Director has taken no action, an appeal to
Council. Council shall then review the matter and render a final determination
after affording the applicant an opportunity to be heard either in person or in
writing. Except to the extent otherwise appealable by law, Council’s decision
shall be final.
   (F)   Permittee shall, within 30 days of the initial granting of any permit
hereunder, pay a pro-rata portion of the fees required by §
94.007(B) or (C) as applicable.
(Ord. 97-105, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.005 CRITERIA FOR GRANTING PERMITS.
   (A)   Franchise permits shall be granted to all persons holding a valid
franchise and shall be effective for so long as such franchise is valid and the
permittee complies with the provisions of such permit and this subchapter.
   (B)   General and special permits shall be granted to persons based upon a
determination that the following criteria are met:
      (1)   The granting of the permit will contribute to the public health,
safety, or welfare in the municipality;
      (2)   The granting of the permit will be consistent with the policy of
the municipality as set forth in §
94.001(E);
      (3)   The permittee has and will continue to have liability insurance,
which names the municipality as an additional insured, in effect in such
amounts and for such liability as the regulations require;
      (4)   The applicant is a proper person to hold a permit and will fulfill
all its obligations hereunder; and
      (5)   In the case of OVS operators, that they have made the required
commitment and arrangement for paying fees in lieu of the franchise fees
charged to other providers of video services.
(Ord. 97-105, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 94.006 OBLIGATIONS OF PERMITTEE; CONDITIONS OF PERMITS.
   (A)   In addition to the other requirements set forth herein each franchise,
general and special permittee shall:
      (1)   Locate its improvements within the right-of-way in a manner which
attempts to anticipate and preserve available space for future use by the
municipality or other permittee;
      (2)   Use its best efforts to cooperate with other permittee and the
municipality for the best, most efficient, most aesthetic, and least obtrusive
use of rights-of-way;
      (3)   Participate in such joint planning and advance notification of
right-of-way work, excepting such work performed in emergencies or other
exigent circumstances, as required by this subchapter and as may be more
specifically set forth in the regulations;
      (4)   Cooperate with other nonresidential permittee in utilization of,
construction in, and occupancy of private rights-of-way, but only to the extent
the same is not inconsistent with the grant thereof or is not additionally
burdensome to any property owner;
      (5)   Upon written notice of, and at the direction of, the Director and
at the permittee’s sole cost, promptly remove or rearrange facilities as
necessary, such as, during any construction, repair, or modification of any
street, sidewalk, municipal utility, or other public improvement, or if
additional or subsequent municipal or other public uses of rights-of-way are
inconsistent with then current uses of permittee or for any other reasonable
cause as determined by the Director;
      (6)   Provide maps or other information identifying any changes since the
most recent, previous plans, maps, or description, in such form and at such
times, no less than annually, as the regulations require. The maps and
information shall locate, describe, and identify all uses, structures, and
facilities of such permittee, of and in the rights-of-way;
      (7)   Perform all work, construction, maintenance, or removal of
structures and facilities within the right-of-way in accordance with good
engineering and construction practice including any appropriate safety codes
and in accordance with the regulations and use best efforts to repair and
replace any street, curb or other portion of the right-of-way, or facilities or
structure located therein, to a condition materially equivalent to its
condition prior to such work and to do so in a manner which minimizes any in
accommodation to the public, the municipality, and other permittee, all in
accordance with the regulations;
      (8)   Register with all appropriate underground reporting services; and
      (9)   Not, unless otherwise set forth in a permit and without
municipality’s prior written approval, enter into leases or other agreements
for the use of such permittee’s facilities located within the rights-of-way.
All such leases or agreements shall be filed with the Director.
   (B)   Each permittee shall assure that any subcontractors or others
performing any work or services in the right-of-way on behalf of the permittee
comply with all applicable provisions of this subchapter and the permittee
shall be responsible and liable hereunder for all actions of any such
subcontractor or others as if the permittee had performed or failed to perform
any such obligation.
(Ord. 97-105, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.007 PERMIT FEES AND AUDITING.
   (A)   Except for any fees associated with street openings as set forth in
division (D) of this section, a franchise permittee shall not be liable for any
additional permit fees over and above their franchise fees for uses of rights-
of-way pursuant to such permittee’s franchise permit and this subchapter.
   (B)   General permittees shall pay an annual fee for each calendar year of a
percentage of that permittee’s prior year’s gross revenues arising from
services delivered within the municipality, as set forth in the village’s fee
schedule, as adopted by reference in §
36.05. Estimated quarterly payments shall be made on or before April 15, July
15, and October 15 of the calendar year for that calendar year with a final
payment, and true up, on February 15 for the prior calendar year. The final
payment shall be accompanied by a statement of an independent certified public
accountant attesting to the accuracy of the payment and the gross revenues upon
which it was based. Should the payment required by this section ever be
declared unlawful, void, or otherwise unenforceable for any reason whatsoever,
the general permittee shall pay the annual fee specified in division (C) of
this section.
   (C)   Special permittee shall pay an annual fee per linear foot of right-of-
way used or occupied as set forth in the village’s fee schedule, as adopted by
reference §
36.05. Such fee shall be paid in advance for each year prior to January 31 of
such year.
   (D)   In addition to the annual fees set forth in divisions (B) and (C) of
this section, general and special permittee shall pay a work permit fee plus a
daily work fee as set forth in the village’s fee schedule, as adopted by
reference in §
36.05, in which construction, maintenance, or other activities take place. All
permittees shall pay an additional work permit fee for each street opening or
cut per opening as set forth in the village’s fee schedule, as adopted by
reference in §
36.05. The fees are payable at the time the notice set forth in §
94.008 hereof is filed. Fees for work done without a §
94.008 prior notice shall be made within seven business days of the initiation
of any such work.
   (E)   The fees set forth in divisions (C) and (D) of this section shall be
specified in the regulations.
   (F)   All fees pursuant to this subchapter shall be paid by check, money
order, or wire transfer to the village as the regulations require.
   (G)   Each permittee shall maintain books, records, maps, documents, and
other evidence directly pertinent to its gross revenues and calculation of
payments to the municipality in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. The municipality or its designated agents shall have reasonable
access to such books, records, maps, documents, and other evidence for
inspection, audit, and copying to the extent necessary to assure that the
audited statement submitted pursuant to division (B) of this section is
accurate and that each permittee fully complies with the provisions of this
subchapter and its permit.
(Ord. 97-105, passed 2-3-1997; Ord. 97-168, passed 11-17-1997) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.008 NOTICE OF RIGHT-OF-WAY WORK; JOINT PLANNING.
   (A)   All permittees shall file a written notice, in such form as the
regulations require, with the Director at least 30 days before working in or on
the right-of-way. In addition to such other information as the regulations
require, such notice shall contain or indicate, to the extent applicable:
      (1)   The right-of-way affected;
      (2)   A description of any facilities to be installed, constructed, or
maintained;
      (3)   Whether or not any street will be opened or otherwise need to be
restricted, blocked, or closed;
      (4)   An estimate of the amount of time needed to complete such work;
      (5)   A description and timetable of any remedial measures planned to
close any street opening or repair any damage done to facilitate such work;
      (6)   A statement verifying that other affected or potentially affected
permittee have been notified; and
      (7)   A statement that any consumers of any utility, cable television,
communications, or other service which will be adversely affected by such work
have been or will be notified.
   (B)   The Director shall adopt regulations governing joint planning
requirements for all nonresidential permittees.
   (C)   Permittees may, under emergency or other exigent circumstances, work
in the right-of-way so long as the permittees use best efforts to provide the
municipality the notice required by division (A) of this section at the
earliest possible time.
(Ord. 97-105, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.009 USE OF PERMITTEE FACILITIES.
   (A)   The municipality shall have the right to install and maintain, free of
charge, upon any poles and within any underground pipes and conduits or other
facilities of any franchise, general or special permittee, any facilities
desired by the municipality unless such installation and maintenance
unreasonably and materially interferes with existing and future operations of
the permittee, and that such installation and maintenance would be unduly
burdensome to such permittee.
   (B)   Each permittee shall cooperate with the municipality in planning and
design of its facilities so as to anticipate the municipality’s needs in this
regard.
(Ord. 97-105, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.010 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   As set forth in various sections of this subchapter, the Director may
promulgate regulations, as the Director deems appropriate from time to time, to
carry out the express purposes and intent of this subchapter and such
regulations shall be consistent therewith. Such regulations shall not
materially increase the obligations of any permittee; provided, however, that
increases in any fees set forth in such regulations shall not be construed to
be a material increase in any permittee’s obligations as used herein.
   (B)   Such regulations shall be promulgated by the Director by filing the
same in proposed form with the Clerk of Council. Each permittee shall be served
with a copy of the proposed regulations by regular U.S. mail; provided,
however, that any failure of any permittee to actually receive such notice
shall not in any way affect the validity or enforceability of any regulations.
Any person, including any permittee, may file specific written comments or
objections on the proposed regulations within a 30-day period thereafter
(hereinafter “comment period”). To the extent any regulations are objected to
by any nonresidential permittee, the objected to regulations shall become
effective only upon the affirmative vote of Council. To the extent no permittee
objects to the proposed regulations, the same shall become effective 30 days
after the end of the comment period, or such longer period as determined by
Council, unless modified or rejected by Council.
   (C)   Council may adopt emergency regulations to be immediately effective,
when it determines the same to be appropriate or required by the public health,
safety, or welfare.
(Ord. 97-105, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 94.011 INDEMNITY.
   Each permittee shall indemnify, protect, and hold harmless the municipality
from any claim, loss, or damage arising in any way from a permittee’s use of
the right-of-way, including, but not limited to, the construction, operation,
or maintenance of permittee’s facilities or from any such permittee’s negligent
or wrongful act or omission.
(Ord. 97-105, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.012 REMOVAL OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   In the event any permittee intends to discontinue use of any
facilities within the rights-of-way, such permittee shall submit a notice to
the Director describing the portion of the facilities to be discontinued and
the date of discontinuance, which date shall not be less than 30 days from the
date such notice is submitted to the Director. The permittee may not remove,
destroy, or permanently disable any such facilities after such notice without
the written approval of the Director. The permittee shall remove and secure
such facilities as set forth in the notice unless directed by the Director to
abandon such facilities in place.
   (B)   Upon such abandonment and acceptance by the municipality in writing,
full title and ownership of such abandoned facilities shall pass to the
municipality and the municipality shall have no obligation to pay compensation
to the permittee. The permittee shall, however, continue to be responsible for
all taxes on such facilities or other liabilities associated therewith, until
the date the same is accepted by the municipality.
(Ord. 97-105, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.013 REMEDIES AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   In case of any failure of permittee’s physical plant, whether due to
damage, age, lack of maintenance, or any other cause, the municipality shall
notify permittee who shall, within the time stipulated by the municipality,
respond and repair such failed plant. Should permittee fail to act as required,
or in cases where protection of public safety requires an immediate response,
the municipality may take any required, corrective action and recover the costs
of same from the permittee by civil action or by certifying the amount to the
County Auditor for collection with the permittee’s personal property or real
estate taxes.
   (B)   The Director shall give the permittee 30 days’ prior written notice of
municipality’s intent to revoke the permit under this section, stating the
reasons for such action. If the permittee cures the stated reason within the
30-day notice period, or if the permittee initiates efforts satisfactory to the
municipality to remedy the stated violation, the municipality shall not revoke
the permit. If the permittee does not cure the stated violation or undertake
efforts satisfactory to the municipality to remedy the stated violation, then,
after granting the permittee an opportunity to be heard in person or in
writing, the Council may revoke the permit.
   (C)   In the event the permit is revoked, all facilities located in the
rights-of-way or located upon public property shall be removed from the streets
and public places of the municipality at the sole expense of the permittee.
(Ord. 97-105, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.014 RESERVATION OF RIGHTS.
   (A)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prevent the
municipality from constructing, maintaining, repairing, or relocating any
municipal utility, communications, or like facilities; grading, paving,
maintaining, repairing, relocating, or altering any street or right-of-way; or
constructing, maintaining, relocating, or repairing any sidewalk or other
public work or improvement.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter should be construed so as to grant any
right or interest in any right- of-way or public property other than that
explicitly set forth herein or in a permit.
(Ord. 97-105, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 94.015 STREET VACATION.
   Unless preempted by state or federal law, in the event any right-of-way or
public property used by a permittee shall be vacated or conveyed to others by
the municipality during the term of any permit granted pursuant to this
subchapter, the permittee shall, at the permittee’s expense, forthwith remove
its facilities therefrom unless specifically permitted by the municipality to
continue the same, and upon the removal thereof, restore, repair, or
reconstruct the area where such removal has occurred to a condition materially
equivalent to that existing before such removal took place. Regulations may be
adopted to further specify this requirement. In the event of failure, neglect,
or refusal of the permittee, after 30 days written notice by the municipality
to remove the facilities or to repair, restore, reconstruct, improve, or
maintain such vacated area, the municipality may do such work or cause it to be
done, and the cost thereof as found and declared by the municipality shall be
paid by the permittee as directed by the municipality and collection may be
made by any available remedy.
(Ord. 97-105, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.016 TEMPORARY MOVEMENT OF FACILITIES.
   In the event it is necessary temporarily to move or remove any of the
permittee’s wires, cables, poles, or other facilities placed pursuant to this
subchapter, in order to lawfully move a large object, vehicle, building, or
other structure over the streets of the municipality, upon two weeks’ written
notice by the municipality to the permittee, the permittee shall, at the
expense of the person requesting the temporary removal of such facilities,
comply with municipality’s request.
(Ord. 97-105, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.017 PERMANENT REMOVAL OR RELOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   In the event that municipal utilities must be moved, removed, or additional
structures installed within the right-of-way or other public property which
requires the relocation or removal of the permittee’s facilities, the permittee
shall, at its own expense, cause such relocation or removal to be made within
30 days.
(Ord. 97-105, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.018 FORECLOSURE AND RECEIVERSHIP.
   (A)   Foreclosure. Upon the foreclosure or other judicial sale of the
permittee’s facilities located within the right-of-way, the permittee shall
notify the municipality of such fact and its permit shall be deemed void and of
no further force and effect.
   (B)   Receivership. The municipality shall have the right to cancel any
permit granted pursuant to this subchapter subject to any applicable provisions
of law, including the Bankruptcy Act being 11 U.S.C. §§ 101 et seq., 120 days
after the appointment of a receiver or trustee to take over and conduct the
business of the permittee, whether in receivership, reorganization, bankruptcy,
or other action or proceeding, unless such receivership or trusteeship shall
have been vacated prior to the expiration of the 120 days, or unless:
      (1)   Within 120 days after his or her election or appointment, such
receiver or trustee shall have fully complied with all the provisions of this
subchapter and the relevant permit and remedied all defaults thereunder; and
      (2)   Such receiver or trustee, within the 120 days, shall have executed
an agreement, duly approved by the court having jurisdiction in the premises,
whereby such receiver or trustee assumes and agrees to be bound by each and
every provision of this subchapter and the relevant permit.
(Ord. 97-105, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.019 NONENFORCEMENT AND WAIVERS BY MUNICIPALITY.
   The permittee shall not be relieved of its obligation to comply with any of
the provisions of this subchapter by reason of any failure of the municipality
or to enforce prompt compliance. However, the Director may in individual
instances and upon a request in writing establishing hardship and for good
cause shown waive, in writing, any requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 97-105, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 94.020 CONTROLLING LAW.
   This subchapter shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the
Constitution and laws of the state.
(Ord. 97-105, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 94.021 CAPTIONS.
   The captions and headings in this subchapter are for convenience and
reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning of
interpretation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 97-105, passed 2-3-1997)
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS; GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 94.030 STREET OR SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION, DAMAGE, OR INJURY.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, public ground,
or other public way within the municipality by erecting thereon any fence,
structure, or building, or permitting any fence, structure, or building to
remain thereon, unless authorized by the legislative authority or other proper
municipal official. Each day that any such fence or building is permitted to
remain upon such public way shall be deemed a separate offense.
(R.C. § 5589.01)
   (B)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a sidewalk or
playground any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails, or other articles which may
damage property of another or injure any person or animal traveling along or
upon such sidewalk or playground.
   (C)   No person shall walk on, or allow any animal upon, or injure or deface
in any way, any soft or newly laid sidewalk pavement.
   (D)   No person shall place, deposit, or maintain any merchandise, goods,
material, or equipment upon any sidewalk so as to obstruct pedestrian traffic
thereon except for such reasonable time as may be actually necessary for the
delivery or pickup of such articles. In no case shall the obstruction remain on
such sidewalk for more than one hour.
   (E)   No person shall unload upon, or transport any heavy merchandise,
goods, material, or equipment over or across any sidewalk or curb without first
placing some sufficient protection over the pavement to protect against damage
or injury.
   (F)   No person shall allow any cellar or trap door, coal chute, or elevator
or lift opening in any sidewalk to remain open without providing suitable
safeguards to protect and warn pedestrian traffic of the dangerous conditions.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 5589.99(A))
      (2)   Whoever violates any other provision of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues.
Cross-reference:
   Driving upon sidewalk prohibited, see §
72.118
§ 94.031 DUTY TO KEEP SIDEWALKS IN REPAIR AND CLEAN OF ICE AND SNOW.
   No owner or occupant of lots or lands abutting any sidewalk, curb, or gutter
shall fail to keep the sidewalks, curbs, and gutters in repair and free from
snow, ice, or any nuisance, and to remove from such sidewalks, curbs, or
gutters all snow and ice accumulated thereon within a reasonable time, which
will ordinarily not exceed 12 hours after any storm during which the snow and
ice has accumulated.
(R.C. § 723.011) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.032 RAMPED CURBING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   All new curbs that are authorized by the municipality, and all existing
curbs which are part of any reconstruction, shall have a ramp with nonslip
surface built into the curb at each pedestrian crosswalk so that the sidewalk
and street blend to a common level. These ramps shall be not less than 40
inches wide and shall, insofar as feasible, be constructed in accordance with
the standard drawings and specifications for curb ramps of the state’s
Department of Transportation.
(R.C. § 729.12) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.033 ALTERING OR INJURING MARKER OR MONUMENT.
   (A)   No person shall alter, deface, injure, or destroy any marker or
monument placed along, upon, or near a public highway by the proper authorities
to mark the boundary thereof, or for any other purpose.
(R.C. § 5589.02)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
§ 94.045 CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR MAY BE REQUIRED.
   In addition to the power conferred upon the municipality under R.C. § 727.01
to construct sidewalks, curbs, or gutters and levy an assessment therefor, the
legislative authority may require the construction or repair of sidewalks,
curbs, or gutters within the municipality by the owners of lots or lands
abutting thereon, and upon the failure of such owners to construct or repair
such sidewalks, curbs, or gutters within the time prescribed in the resolution
adopted under §
94.046, may cause such sidewalks, curbs, or gutters to be constructed or
repaired and assess the total cost thereof against the lots or land abutting
thereon, notwithstanding the provisions of R.C. §§ 727.03 and 727.05.
(R.C. § 729.01)
§ 94.046 RESOLUTION OF NECESSITY.
   (A)   When it is deemed necessary by the municipality to require the
construction or repair of sidewalks, curbs, or gutters within the municipality
by the owners of the lots or lands abutting thereon, the legislative authority
shall cause plans, specifications, and an estimate of the cost of such
construction or repair to be prepared, showing the location and dimensions of
such sidewalks, curbs, or gutters and the specifications for the construction
or repair thereof, and to be filed in the office of the Clerk of the
legislative authority.
   (B)   After such plans, specifications, and estimate of cost have been
filed, as provided in this section, the legislative authority may declare the
necessity for the construction or repair of such sidewalks, curbs, or gutters
by the adoption of a resolution which shall:
      (1)   Approve the plans, specifications, and estimate of cost of the
proposed construction or repair on file as provided by this section;
      (2)   Describe the lots and lands abutting upon the sidewalks, curbs, or
gutters to be constructed or repaired by the termini of the improvement or by
the street address;
      (3)   Set forth that such sidewalks, curbs, or gutters shall be
constructed or repaired by the owners of the lots or lands abutting thereon in
accordance with the specifications on file in the office of the Clerk of the
legislative authority;
      (4)   Set forth the time within which such sidewalks, curbs, or gutters
shall be constructed or repaired by the owners of the lots and lands abutting
thereon, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of service of
notice under §
94.047 on the owner of the lots or lands; and
      (5)   State than in the event such sidewalks, curbs, or gutters are not
constructed or repaired by the owners of the lots and lands abutting thereon in
accordance with such plans and specifications and within the time prescribed in
this resolution, the municipality will so construct or repair such sidewalks,
curbs, or gutters and assess the costs thereof against the lots and lands
abutting thereon.
(R.C. § 729.02)
§ 94.047 NOTICE TO CONSTRUCT OR REPAIR.
   Notice of the passage of a resolution of necessity under §
94.046 shall be served by the Clerk of the legislative authority, or a person
designated by such Clerk, upon the owners of the lots or lands abutting upon
the sidewalks, curbs, or gutters to be constructed or repaired in the same
manner as service of summons in civil cases, or by certified mail addressed to
such owner at his or her last known address or to the address to which tax
bills are sent, or by a combination of the foregoing methods. If it appears by
the return of service or the return of the certified mail notice that one or
more of the owners cannot be found, such owners shall be served by publication
of the notice once in a newspaper of general circulation within the
municipality. The return of the person serving the notice or a certified copy
thereof or a returned receipt for notice forwarded by certified mail accepted
by the addressee or anyone purporting to act for him or her shall be prima
facie evidence of the service of notice under this section. The notice shall
also set forth the place where the specifications governing the construction or
repair of such sidewalks, curbs, or gutters are on file, the time within which
the owner of such lot or parcel of land may construct or repair the sidewalks,
curbs, or gutters, and that in the event the owner does not construct or repair
the sidewalks, curbs, or gutters in accordance with the specifications and
within such time, the municipality will construct or repair such sidewalks,
curbs, or gutters and assess the costs thereof against the lot or land of the
owner.
(R.C. § 729.03)
§ 94.048 ASSESSMENTS OF COSTS AGAINST OWNER.
   (A)   Upon the expiration of the time within which sidewalks, curbs, or
gutters shall be constructed or repaired by the owner of the lots or lands
abutting thereon as set forth in the resolution adopted under §
94.046, the sidewalks, curbs, or gutters not constructed or repaired by the
owners of the lots and lands abutting thereon shall be constructed or repaired
by the municipality in accordance with the resolution adopted under §
94.046, and the legislative authority shall, upon the completion of such
construction or repair, assess the costs thereof against the lots or lands
abutting thereon.
   (B)   In anticipation of the collection of the costs of construction or
repair of such sidewalks, curbs, or gutters from the owners of the lots or
lands abutting thereon, the legislative authority may provide for the issuance
of bonds or notes and the proceeds thereof shall be used to pay for the
construction or repair of such sidewalks, curbs, or gutters.
(R.C. § 729.04)
   (C)   A levy for sidewalk, curb, and gutter assessments shall be assessed
for a ten-year period and allowing a 60-day period from the passage of this
section for payment of assessments pursuant to those persons who received
notice by way of R.C. § 729.08. After such time has passed, and in the event
the citizens have not paid cash, the assessment shall be certified to the
County Auditor pursuant to R.C. § 729.09.
(Ord. 98-111, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 98-121, passed 5-4-1998; Ord. 98-160,
passed 11-2-1998; Ord. 2000-007, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 94.049 PROCEEDINGS MAY INCLUDE DIFFERENT OWNERS.
   In all proceedings pertaining to the construction or repair of sidewalks,
curbs, or gutters under this subchapter or R.C. §§ 729.01 through 729.08,
sidewalks, curbs, or gutters upon different streets abutting upon lots or lands
owned by different owners may be included in the same resolution, notice,
contract, ordinance, or other proceedings.
(R.C. § 729.05)
§ 94.050 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUILDING AND ZONING CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The officer of the village
acting in his or her official capacity on behalf of the village.
      CONTRACTOR. Any person, firm, partnership, or corporation undertaking the
construction, reconstruction, or repair of sidewalk, curb, gutter, or driveways
operating under appropriate permits, acting directly or through a duly
authorized representative.
      ENGINEER. The Village Engineer or his or her duly authorized agent.
      INSPECTOR. The authorized representative of the village assigned to make
a detailed inspection of any and all portions of the work, or materials
thereof.
      SUPERINTENDENT. The executive representative of the contractor, present
on the work at all times during its progress and authorized to receive and
fulfill instructions from the Engineer or authorized agent and capable of
superintending the work efficiently.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Waynesville, acting through the Village Manager
or his or her properly authorized agents; such agents acting severally within
the scope of the particular duties entrusted to them.
   (B)   Terms. Whenever in the specifications or upon the plans, the words
“directed”, “required”, “permitted”, “ordered”, “designated”, “prescribed”, or
of like import are used, it shall be understood that the directions,
requirements, permission, order designation, or prescription of the Mayor is
intended, and similarly the words “acceptable”, “satisfactory”, or words of
like import shall mean approved by, or acceptable or satisfactory to, the Mayor
unless otherwise expressly intended.
   (C)   Decisions. All work conducted under these specifications, rules, and
regulations shall be done to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer, who
shall in all cases determine the quality, acceptability, and fitness of the
several kinds of work and materials which are to be used.
   (D)   Orders to contractor. The contractor must have on the work at all
times a foreman, superintendent, or other competent representative to whom
orders and instructions may be given. Such orders shall have the same force and
effect as if given directly to the contractor.
   (E)   Incompetent workers. Incompetent, careless, or disorderly workers or
foremen will not be permitted on the work, and any such shall immediately be
discharged by the contractor upon complaint by the village.
   (F)   Lines and grades. All work done must be in accordance with the lines
and grades as specified by the construction drawings. The contractor shall be
responsible for the protection of all stakes.
   (G)   Conduct of work. Contractors must consult the Village Engineer before
constructing driveway entrances on streets which have no curb and gutter; also
before doing any work which involves change of grade, or which deviates from
standard practice. Contractors must obtain permits before doing any excavating,
or other work, in the sidewalk space. When a walk, driveway, curb, or gutter is
to be repaired, reconstructed, or constructed, all gas and water stop boxes
must be adjusted to the proper grade flush with the new work.
   (H)   Adjust of utility boxes.
      (1)   The contractor will call the utility company at least two working
days before pouring the concrete. The contractor will be advised as to whether
or not the utility company can have a crew on the job before he or she pours
the concrete.
      (2)   If the utility company cannot provide a crew before the concrete is
poured, the contractor will block off a two-foot by two-foot square around the
gas or water stop box and provide barricades with flashing lights until the
utility crew takes over. This crew will adjust or replace the stop box and the
contractor shall concrete the two-foot by two-foot unpaved area.
   (I)   Temporary walkway. The contractor will provide a safe and adequate
temporary walkway for pedestrians during the repair or removal of sidewalk,
curb, gutter, or driveway. The temporary walkway will be kept free of debris,
mud, ice, or snow. Should pedestrian traffic be routed into streets or alleys,
such temporary walkway shall be protected by the construction of such
barricades, railings, flashing lights, or other safety devices prescribed by
the village.
   (J)   Inspection and testing. No material of any kind may be used until it
has been inspected, tested, and accepted by the Village Engineer. The
contractor must furnish all labor, equipment, tools, and materials necessary in
handling such material for inspection and pay for any testing that is deemed
necessary. The materials rejected must be immediately hauled away from the
vicinity of the work. The inspection and supervision by the village is intended
to aid the contractor in supplying only such material and in doing such work as
it shall not operate to release him or her from any of his or her contract
obligations. The village shall not be responsible for the contractor’s means
and methods of preforming the work. Materials or workmanship found at any time
to be defective shall be immediately remedied by the contractor regardless of
previous inspection. If the contractor fails to comply promptly with these
requirements, the village may revoke the permit for the work.
   (K)   Defective work (guarantee). The contractor shall be required to keep
all work done by him or her in good condition and repair for a term of one year
from the date of inspection by the Village Inspector, by cracking, breaking of
surface, or in any other manner, shall be removed and replaced with new work,
by the contractor, at his or her own expense.
   (L)   Cleaning up. As fast as the sidewalk, driveway, or curb is laid, all
rubbish and surplus material which may accumulate during the progress of the
work shall be removed from the roadway, sidewalk, and intersecting streets by
the contractor, and such completed portion of the work left clean and in good
condition.
   (M)   No estoppel. The village shall not be precluded or estopped by any
return or certificate made or given by it, from showing at any time, either
before or after the final completion and acceptance of the work and payment
therefor, character of the work done and materials furnished by the contractor
or any other person under the contract or from showing at any time that any
such particular, or that the work and materials or any part thereof do not, in
fact, conform to the plans and specifications; and the village shall not be
precluded or estopped, notwithstanding any such return or certificate and
payment in accordance therewith, from demanding and recovering from the
contractor such damages as it may sustain by reason of his or her failure to
comply with the plans, specifications, and contract.
   (N)   Responsibility for work. During the progress of the work, the
contractor shall assume the risk of, and be responsible for, any and all
damages to the work, or to persons or property caused by or in any way
resulting from the work.
   (O)   Inspection. The contractor must call 897-8015 for inspection one
working day before he or she pours concrete. The contractor or his or her
foreman must be on the job when the inspector arrives. If no one is on the job
when the inspector arrives, it will be considered that no call was made for
inspection. If, because of inclement weather or for some other reason it will
not be possible to have a person on the job, the contractor is required to call
and cancel his or her request for inspection before 9:00 a.m. Before the
inspector will permit the concrete to be poured, all forms must be set, the
trench for the sidewalk, curb, gutter, or driveway must be excavated to the
required depth, and the subgrade properly prepared.
   (P)   Contractor performance guidelines.
      (1)   Acceptable performance: work opened, inspected, closed, and
approved within ten working days.
      (2)   Marginal performance: work opened, inspected, closed, and approved
between 11 and 15 working days.
      (3)   Unacceptable performance: work opened, but not inspected, closed,
and approved for a period longer than 15 working days.
      (4)   The time periods outlined in divisions (P)(1), (P)(2), and (P)(3)
of this section are reduced by 50% when the work is open in areas of high
pedestrian traffic.
      (5)   After ten working days in a high pedestrian traffic area or 15
working days in a residential area, any excavated holes left open can be closed
by responsible village representatives and the cost of the work shall be
charged to the contractor.
   (Q)   Street furniture. The contractor will be expected to replace all signs
a minimum of 18 inches and a maximum of 24 inches from the face of the curb
which he or she may remove incident to his or her work.
   (R)   Street repair. Any street, alley, or public way excavated or disturbed
during the construction, reconstruction, or repair of sidewalk, curb, gutter,
or driveway shall be replaced by the contractor at his or her expense in
accordance with village construction specifications and the direction of the
Village Engineer.
   (S)   Alternative materials. Alternative materials of construction (such as
brick or concrete pavers and the like) may be submitted to the Village Engineer
for review and approval. Typically the use of alternative materials would be
associated with a special district-wide improvement or a total development plat
standard. The use of alternative materials of construction will not be accepted
as replacement for a concrete or asphalt drive or walk.
(Ord. 95-140, passed 6-19-1995)
§ 94.051 CLEANING AND REPAIR.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of any parcel of
land in the village abutting on streets, alleys, and public ways of the village
where sidewalk, curb, gutter, or driveway has been constructed to keep such
improvement in good repair in accordance with the specifications set forth
herein.
      (2)   The owner or occupant shall cause such sidewalk to be kept free of
accumulations of rubbish, mud, ice, or snow. He or she shall also cause such
sidewalk, curb, gutter, or driveway to be kept level and safe for pedestrians
and others who are entitled to use it. Trees, bushes, and hedges located on
private property shall be kept trimmed by the property owner or occupant so
that they do not interfere with the use of the sidewalks. Retaining walls,
ditches, and fences shall be kept in repair and adequately safeguarded to
prevent injury to users of the sidewalk.
   (B)   In furtherance of the obligation of the owner or occupant of land
within the village to repair, pave, or repave sidewalks, curbs, or gutters, as
stated in division (A) of this section, such owner or occupant shall cause such
sidewalks, curbs, gutters, or driveways to be placed in good and safe condition
through repairing, paving, or repaving within 21 days after the Building and
Zoning Code Enforcement has directed the same to be done.
   (C)   The Building and Zoning Code Enforcement Officer shall issue repair
notices to owners or occupants of real estate whose sidewalks, curb, gutter, or
driveway are in violation of the provisions of this section. Such notice to
repair, pave, or repave sidewalks, curb, gutter, or driveway shall require such
work to be accomplished within 21 days from the date of such notice.
   (D)   Any owner, occupant, or other person who shall take up, or cause to be
taken up, the whole or any part of any paved sidewalk, curb, gutter, or
driveway for the purpose of improvement or otherwise shall cause such sidewalk,
curbs, gutter, or driveway to be relaid in accordance with the specifications
set forth herein within 21 days.
   (E)   The Council of the village shall cause the repair, paving, or repaving
of all sidewalks, curb, gutter, or driveway of those properties found to be in
violation of the provisions of division (B), (C), or (D) of this section and
shall present to the owners of such properties for payment such administrative,
construction, and other charges as may be incurred in making such repairs,
paving, or repaving.
   (F)   Whoever neglects or refuses to fulfill the obligations imposed by this
section within the time prescribed shall be fined not more than $50 for each
offense. A separate offense shall be construed to mean every seven-day period
such violation continues after the initial offense.
   (G)   Whoever fails or refuses to pay the charges incurred under division
(E) of this section upon presentation of the same by the Village Clerk shall be
fined not more than $500.
(Ord. 95-140, passed 6-19-1995)
§ 94.052 PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall construct, reconstruct, or
repair any sidewalk, curb, gutter, or driveway improvement abutting on streets,
alleys, or public ways of the village or cause the same to be constructed,
reconstructed, or repaired without first obtaining the proper permits set forth
herein, except in those cases where sidewalk, curb, gutter, or driveway
improvements are to be constructed as part of an approved subdivision in
accordance with the subdivider’s agreement.
   (B)   Work performed under permits issued by the village shall be performed
in accordance with the specifications contained herein and as acceptable to the
approval of the Village Engineer shall result in revocation of permits and
condemnation of the work.
   (C)   Work shall begin within 30 days from the date of issuance of the
required permit and shall be completed within 45 days, except that the Zoning
Officer may, upon written request, by written permit, extend the time for
completion of the work be more than 60 days from the date of issuance of the
permit. Deviation from the prescribed time schedule shall result in expiration
of the permit, and will require that reapplication for the required permit be
made.
   (D)   Permit fees shall be paid at the time application is made for required
permits and before such permits are issued. Permit fees shall be as set for in
the village’s fee schedule, as adopted by reference in §
36.05.
(Ord. 95-140, passed 6-19-1995; Ord. 95-190, passed 12-4-1995; Ord. 96-175,
passed 11-18-1996; Ord. 97-168, passed 11-17-1997)
§ 94.053 CRITERIA FOR CONDEMNING SIDEWALKS, DRIVEWAYS, CURBS, AND
GUTTERS.
   (A)   Criteria for condemning sidewalks.
      (1)   Any block or section having a crack or cracks in it more than five-
eighths-inch wide;
      (2)   Adjoining blocks or portions thereof whose edges differ vertically
by more than five- eighths-inch;
      (3)   Block or sections that have holes in them five-eighths-inch or more
in diameter or are cracked and broken so that pieces are missing or loose;
      (4)   Block or sections having depressions, reverse cross-slope (sloping
away from the street), or below curb grade so as to impound mud or water;
      (5)   Blocks or sections having a cross slope in excess of three-fourths-
inch vertical per one-foot horizontal;
      (6)   Blocks or sections that cause an abrupt change in the longitudinal
grade of sidewalk;
      (7)   Blocks or sections that are ravelled; such as, the surface has
spalled leaving it very rough with the coarse aggregate protruding;
      (8)   Any natural stone slabs, steel plates, or prismatic lights used as
sidewalk over a subgrade;
      (9)   Defective columns or beams supporting a sidewalk slab over a
subgrade;
      (10)   Sidewalk material placed without prior approval of the village;
      (11)   Sod area between the sidewalk and street that protrudes above the
sidewalk and impounds water or causes it to drain along the sidewalks, in such
cases the condition should be corrected by lowering the sod. In cases where the
sod area on either side of the sidewalk is below grade of the sidewalk, a fill
will be made and the area either sodded or seeded;
      (12)   Stumps, stones, private sign posts, or any other unauthorized
obstruction in the sidewalk space;
      (13)   Trees, bushes, or shrubs that overhang the sidewalk. Trees,
bushes, or shrubs located on private property will be trimmed to at least eight
feet above the sidewalk, with bushes and shrubs trimmed so as not to overhang
the sidewalk even after a rain;
      (14)   Water valve boxes, gas value boxes, and the like that are not to
proper grade;
      (15)   The recommendation of the Village Engineer that any block or
section be condemned to safeguard public health, safety, and welfare; or
      (16)   Sidewalks constructed of a material other than concrete that in
the opinion of the Engineer should be condemned to safeguard public health,
safety, and welfare.
   (B)   Criteria for condemning driveways.
      (1)   Any driveway having a crack or cracks in it more than five-eighths-
inch wide;
      (2)   Driveways that differ vertically by more than five-eighths-inch
either above or below the sidewalk;
      (3)   Driveways that are cracked or broken or have holes larger than
five-eighths-inch diameter;
      (4)   Driveway entrances on village streets, alleys, or public ways that
have been placed without prior approval of the village;
      (5)   Driveway entrances constructed of materials other then concrete or
bituminous concrete on unimproved streets (streets not having curbs);
      (6)   Driveway entrances constructed of materials other than concrete on
improved streets (streets having curbs);
      (7)   Step-down driveways; such as, having vertical curbs so that
construction is similar to an improved alley intersection;
      (8)   Driveways that are dipped across the sidewalk so as to create an
abrupt change of grade. This condition normally exists where the driveway at
street edge of the sidewalk has been held several inches below the grade of the
sidewalk and the transition from the driveway to sidewalk grade is accomplished
in a very short distance;
      (9)   Curb to be restored if sidewalk abuts curb or if abandoned or
unimproved driveway is being used illegally; or
      (10)   The recommendation of the Village Engineer that the driveway be
condemned to safeguard public health, safety, and welfare.
   (C)   Criteria for condemning curbs and gutters.
      (1)   Any section having a crack or cracks in it more than five-eighths-
inch wide;
      (2)   Adjoining sections or portions thereof whose edges differ
vertically by more than five- eighths-inch;
      (3)   Sections that have holes in them five-eighths-inch or more in
diameter or are cracked and broken so that pieces are missing or loose;
      (4)   Sections having depressions, improper slope, or below grade so as
to impound mud or water;
      (5)   Sections that cause an abrupt change in the longitudinal grade of
the curb and gutter;
      (6)   Sections that are ravelled; such as, the surface has spalled
leaving it very rough with the coarse aggregate protruding;
      (7)   Any natural stone slabs, steel plates, asphalt, or other materials
placed without prior approval of the village;
      (8)   Stumps, stones, private signposts, or any other unauthorized
obstruction in the curb or in the gutter space;
      (9)   Trees, bushes, or shrubs privately owned that overhang the curb and
gutter. Trees, bushes, or shrubs shall be trimmed to at least eight feet above
the curb and gutter even after a rain; or
      (10)   The recommendation of the Village Engineer that any section of
curb or gutter be condemned to safeguard public health, safety, and welfare.
(Ord. 95-140, passed 6-19-1995)
§ 94.054 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Grading.
      (1)   Where the surface of the ground will be higher than the finished
grade of the sidewalk, driveway, or curb, the contractor shall do the necessary
excavation to meet the finished grade of the sidewalk, driveway, or curb. Such
grading shall include the necessary slopes.
      (2)   If the original surface of the ground is below the subgrade of the
sidewalk, driveway, or curb, the contractor shall make an embankment on which
to place the sidewalk, driveway, or curb; such embankment shall be placed in
four-inch layers to a width as directed by the Village Engineer, with each
layer thoroughly rolled or tamped to a compaction satisfactory to the Village
Engineer. Topsoil or other organic material shall not be used as embankment
under proposed sidewalk, each side shall be filled and finished graded as
directed by the village.
   (B)   Work near street trees.
      (1)   In situations where the base of a tree has grown over the top of
sidewalk, driveway, curb, or gutter that is to be removed, the concrete shall
be removed from beneath the tree without disturbing the tree. New concrete
shall be placed within the void, expansion paper placed and the sidewalk,
driveway, curb, or gutter brought to finished grade. In no case should the wood
be trimmed back without the written permission of the Village Engineer.
      (2)   If after removal of sidewalk, driveway, curb, or gutter, a tree
root is located under the walk area and if that root is four and one-half
inches in diameter or greater, the Village Engineer must be called to inspect
the work. The Village Engineer will decide if the root may or may not be cut.
The Village Engineer will give the contractor a written copy of the decision
which must be presented to the above procedure will result in the contractor
assuming liability for the affected tree as the law directs.
   (C)   Portland cement concrete sidewalk construction.
      (1)   Excavation for the walk shall be made to subgrade, and to a width
of three inches more on each side than the width of the proposed walk. All tree
roots exposed by excavation shall be cut off at least three inches outside the
lines of the new walk and three inches below the subgrade, provided such
approval has been received from the Village Engineer as identified under “work
near street trees” above. After having been evenly fine graded, the subgrade
shall be mechanically tamped and as specified in the Item 608 of the ODOT
Construction and Material Specification. If springs are encountered, drains
shall be laid as directed by the Village Engineer.
      (2)   Sidewalks shall be a minimum of four feet in width. The maximum
width shall be six feet unless otherwise approved by the Village Engineer.
Sidewalks shall be a minimum four inches thick except in driveways where they
shall be a minimum seven inches thick. The surface of the walk shall have a
transverse slope of one-fourth-inch per foot, with the low side adjacent to the
roadway in accordance with Village Standard Drawing 100-7.
      (3)   The materials necessary for the construction of the concrete
driveways, and forming, placing, finishing, and curing of the concrete
driveways shall conform to ODOT Construction and Material Specification Section
451.10, 705.05, 705.06, 705.07, 705.08 and Standard Drawing 100-4, except as
such specifications are modified herein.
   (D)   Portland cement concrete combined curb and gutter construction.
      (1)   Excavation for the curb and gutter shall be made to subgrade, and
to a width of three inches more on each side than the width of the proposed
curb and gutter. All tree roots exposed by excavation shall be cut off at least
three inches outside the lines of the new curb and gutter and three inches
below the subgrade, provided such approval has been received from the Village
Engineer as identified under “work near street trees” above. After having been
evenly fine graded, the subgrade shall be thoroughly compacted.
      (2)   Curb and gutter shall conform to Standard Drawing 100-3, unless
deviation from this drawing is approved by the Village Engineer. The Village
Engineer shall be notified by the contractor prior to setting forms if the
adjacent curb and gutter cross section is different than Standard Drawing 100-
3.
      (3)   The materials necessary for the construction of the concrete
combined curb and gutter, and forming, placing, finishing, and curing of the
concrete combined curb and gutter shall conform to ODOT Construction and
Material Specification Section 609, except as such specifications are modified
herein.
      (4)   Curb under-drains shall conform to specifications of the Village
Engineer.
(Ord. 95-140, passed 6-19-1995)
CHANGES IN STREETS
§ 94.070 CHANGE OF NAME, VACATING OR NARROWING STREETS BY PETITION.
   (A)   The legislative authority, on petition by a person owning a lot in the
municipality requesting that a street or alley in the immediate vicinity of
such lot be vacated or narrowed, or the name thereof changed, upon hearing, and
upon being satisfied that there is good cause for such change of name,
vacation, or narrowing, that it will not be detrimental to the general
interest, and that it should be made, may, by ordinance, declare such street or
alley vacated, narrowed, or the name thereof changed.
   (B)   The legislative authority may include in one ordinance the change of
name, vacation, or narrowing of more than one street, avenue, or alley.
(R.C. § 723.04)
§ 94.071 CHANGE OF NAME, VACATING OR NARROWING STREETS WITHOUT PETITION.
   (A)   The legislative authority may, when there are two or more streets,
avenues, or alleys of the same name in the municipality, by ordinance and
without petition therefor, change the name of any such street, avenue, or alley
so as to leave only one to be designated by the original name.
   (B)   When, in the opinion of the legislative authority, there is good cause
for vacating or narrowing a street or alley, or any part thereof, and that such
vacation or narrowing will not be detrimental to the general interest, it may,
by ordinance and without petition therefor, vacate or narrow such street or
alley or any part thereof.
(R.C. § 723.05)
§ 94.072 NOTICE; EXCEPTION.
   Notice of the intention of the legislative authority to vacate any street,
alley, avenue, or part thereof shall be given as provided in §
94.073, except when written consent to such vacation is filed with the
legislative authority by the owners of the property abutting the part of the
street or alley proposed to be vacated, in which case such notice shall not be
required.
(R.C. § 723.06)
§ 94.073 PUBLICATION OF NOTICE.
   No street or alley shall be vacated or narrowed unless notice of the
pendency and request of the petition under §
94.070 is given by publishing, in a newspaper published or of general
circulation in the municipality, for six consecutive weeks preceding action on
such petition, or where no newspaper is published or generally circulated in
the municipality, by posting the notice in three public places therein six
weeks preceding such action. Action thereon shall take place within three
months after completion of the notice.
(R.C. § 723.07)
§ 94.074 EFFECT OF ORDER OF VACATION.
   The order of the legislative authority vacating or narrowing a street or
alley which has been dedicated to public use by the proprietor thereof shall,
to the extent to which it is vacated or narrowed, operate as a revocation of
the acceptance thereof by the legislative authority, but the right-of-way and
easement therein of any lot owner shall not be impaired by such order.
(R.C. § 723.08)
§ 94.075 EFFECT ON PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENTS.
   When any street, alley, or public highway, or a portion thereof, is vacated
or narrowed by the municipality pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter
or the provisions of R.C. Chapter 723, and the relocation of any conduits,
cables, wires, towers, poles, sewer lines, steam lines, pipelines, gas and
water lines, tracks, or other equipment or appliances of any railroad or public
utility, whether owned privately or by any governmental authority, located on,
over or under the portion of the street, alley, or highway affected by such
vacation or narrowing, is not required for purposes of the municipality,
including urban renewal, any affected railroad or public utility shall be
deemed to have a permanent easement in such vacated portion or excess portion
of such street, alley, or highway for the purpose of maintaining, operating,
renewing, reconstructing, and removing such utility facilities and for purposes
of access to such facilities.
(R.C. § 723.041)
NUMBERING STRUCTURES
§ 94.090 NUMBERS REQUIRED; PURPOSE.
   All buildings and structures, whether residential, commercial, or
industrial, shall be adequately and properly identified for the purpose of
facilitating the rendering of public services by the Fire, Police, and Service
Departments.
(Ord. 98-119, passed 4-20-1998) Penalty, see §
94.999
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate building numbering, see R.C. § 715.26
§ 94.091 NUMBER LOCATION, SIZE, AND CONTRASTS.
   All buildings and structures shall display a street address number posted
near or on the entrance door facing the street with numerals at least three
inches in height on a contrasting background so as to be clearly visible from
the street. Numbers made of reflective material are preferred.
(Ord. 98-119, passed 4-20-1998) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.092 ADDITIONAL NUMBERS FOR DEEP SETBACKS.
   In addition to the street address numbers near or on the front entrance
door, every building unit located more than 75 feet from the street shall also
display a set of clearly visible street numbers near the driveway entrance to
the building unit.
(Ord. 98-119, passed 4-20-1998) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.093 POLICE CHIEF TO DETERMINE SPECIAL NUMBER LOCATIONS.
   In the event of special circumstances due to the location of the building
unit, entrance, or driveway, the Police Chief shall determine where such street
address numbers shall be displayed to facilitate ready location of the building
unit.
(Ord. 98-119, passed 4-20-1998)
§ 94.094 RESTRICTION ON USE OF SCRIPT NUMBERS.
   In the event script numbers are used, an additional set of block type Arabic
numerals must appear in a conspicuous place.
(Ord. 98-119, passed 4-20-1998) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.095 NEW BUILDINGS TO DISPLAY NUMBERS.
   It shall be mandatory on a newly-constructed building that the numbers be on
display as required in this subchapter on completion of the building and prior
to occupancy.
(Ord. 98-119, passed 4-20-1998) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.096 RECORDS.
   The Director of Inspection and Engineering shall keep a chart showing the
proper street number of every lot in the village which shall be open to
inspection by anyone interested.
(Ord. 98-119, passed 4-20-1998)
SPECIAL EVENTS IN PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 94.120 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The Village Council recognizes that special events are essential for a
vibrant community and provide a distinct benefit to the local culture and
economy.
   (B)   The purpose of this subchapter is to create a uniform and fair process
for the safe and orderly implementation of special events which utilize the
public right-of-way, the village infrastructure, assets, and personnel. This
subchapter balances the needs of special events while protecting the public
health, safety, and welfare.
   (C)   For the purposes of this subchapter, SPECIAL EVENT shall mean a
planned temporary aggregation of attractions, including a parade, march, or
procession, public entertainment, food and beverage service facilities, sales
of merchandise, or similar attractions, that is conducted on the public right-
of-way or conducted primarily outdoors on property open to the public other
than the public right-of-way or requires special village services, including,
but not limited to, any of the following: street closures; provisions of
barricades, garbage cans, stages, or special parking restriction and/or signs;
special electrical services; or special police protection.
(Ord. 2017-011, passed 3-6-2017; Ord. 2017-039, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 94.121 SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   No person shall conduct a special event unless the sponsor of the
event obtains a special event permit from the Village Manager. Such application
shall be on a form provided by the Village Manager, as such form may be amended
from time to time.
   (B)   A sponsor must make an application for a special event permit to the
Village Manager following the guidelines no later than below:
 
One block or less, no intersection                 30 days prior to event
One intersection and not more than two blocks      60 days prior to event
Three or more blocks and two or more intersections 90 days prior to event
 
   (C)   It is advisable for the event organizer to check with the Village
Safety Director and Village Manager as soon as, and with as many details as are
known at the time to assure the requirements necessary to meet these estimated
times can be granted. Actual deadlines for any application shall ultimately
fall to the Village Manager and the Safety Director who may require more or
less time based solely on their discretion.
   (D)   All information provided on the application shall be complete and
truthful. If, prior to the event, the sponsor of the event changes any of the
information required herein such that the special event would require
additional village services or approval from any other department, the sponsor
of the event must submit an amended application to the Village Manager in
compliance with the time requirements determined by the Village Manager.
(Ord. 2017-011, passed 3-6-2017; Ord. 2017-039, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 94.122 SPECIAL EVENT APPLICATION FEES.
   No person shall conduct a special event unless the sponsor of the event pays
a non-refundable application fee as set forth on the applicable special event
permit application.
(Ord. 2017-011, passed 3-6-2017; Ord. 2017-039, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 94.123 APPROVAL OF AN APPLICATION.
   Unless otherwise stated on the permit, the issuance of a permit pursuant to
this subchapter authorizes the sponsor of the event to conduct a special event
pursuant to the terms set forth in the approved application. Notwithstanding
any provisions set forth in the permit application, the sponsor of any special
event shall comply with any and all other applicable village ordinances, rules,
regulations, and any other applicable law.
(Ord. 2017-011, passed 3-6-2017; Ord. 2017-039, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 94.124 CONSIDERATIONS FOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   Preference among conflicting applications for special event permits
shall be given to the application received earliest. However, a historical
event shall receive preference regardless of the date of receipt of the
application.
   (B)   The Village Manager and Safety Director shall approve the application,
if, after considering any relevant written recommendations or objections of the
appropriate village departments, he or she determines that:
      (1)   Admission to the event is open to the general public;
      (2)   If the proposed special event will substantially or unnecessarily
interfere with traffic in the area, a traffic plan will be submitted to the
manager;
      (3)   The proposed special event will not substantially or unnecessarily
interfere with any publicly managed infrastructure project;
      (4)   There are available, at the time of the special event, a sufficient
number of peace officers to police and protect participants in the event;
      (5)   The concentration of persons or things at the event will not
prevent proper fire and police protection or ambulance service;
      (6)   The event is not being conducted for an unlawful purpose;
      (7)   The event will not subject the surrounding neighborhood to an
unreasonable degree of noise, littering, or parking difficulties in light of
the character of the neighborhood;
      (8)   The event will not conflict with a special event or parade which
has been previously scheduled or a historical event;
      (9)   No permit issued under this section may authorize the operation of
a special event for a period longer than 14 consecutive calendar days;
      (10)   The sponsor does not have any outstanding debts related to prior
special events;
      (11)   The special event will not require village services that cannot be
reasonably made available;
      (12)   The sponsor has paid the applicable fee; and
      (13)   The applicant will provide a proper sanitation plan, including,
but not limited to, the provision of toilets, wash stations, and trash
collection plan required for the event, based on an estimated number of
attendees.
   (C)   Failure to meet any of these standards may result in the denial of the
application.
(Ord. 2017-011, passed 3-6-2017; Ord. 2017-039, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 94.125 DENIAL OF AN APPLICATION.
   (A)   If the Village Manager denies the application, he or she shall provide
written notice of his or her determination stating the specific reasons, facts,
and conclusions that are the basis for his or her denial of the permit.
Additionally, any denial shall be consistent with a sponsor’s constitutional
rights contained in the First, Fifth, and Fourteenth Amendments to the United
States Constitution, and §§ 3 and 11 of Article One of the Ohio Constitution.
   (B)   A sponsor may appeal a denial of an application to Village Council if
notice of such appeal is provided in writing to the Village Manager within 30
days of such written denial.
(Ord. 2017-011, passed 3-6-2017; Ord. 2017-039, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 94.126 REVOCATION OF A SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT.
   (A)   The Village Manager may at any time revoke a special event permit if
the operation of the event is in violation of this code, the permit, or any
other applicable law, or if such revocation is necessary to preserve the
health, safety, or welfare of the public. Written notice of the revocation with
the reasons therefor shall be mailed to or served upon the sponsor of the event
at the time of revocation. Unless the permit will expire by its own terms
before a hearing can be reasonably scheduled, no such revocation will take
effect until the sponsor of the event has been given notice and an opportunity
to be heard in accordance with rules and regulations issued by the Village
Manager.
   (B)   When necessary to prevent an immediate threat to the health, safety,
or welfare of the public, the Village Manager shall order the sponsor of the
event to cease operation of the special event.
(Ord. 2017-011, passed 3-6-2017; Ord. 2017-039, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 94.127 APPLICATION.
   The application for a special events permit is adopted by reference and a
copy thereof can be found in the Village Clerk’s office.
(Ord. 2017-011, passed 3-6-2017; Ord. 2017-039, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 94.128 APPLICATION FEE.
   There shall be a non-refundable permit application fee of $25, plus an
additional $25 for each block (each section of street between two
intersections/terminus) closed.
(Ord. 2017-015, passed 3-20-2017)
ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.140 CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO IMPROVING STREETS.
   No department of this municipality shall accept, lay out, open, improve,
grade, pave, curb, or light any street or other way, unless the street or way
has been accepted or opened or otherwise has received the legal status of a
public street or way prior to the effective date of this code; or unless the
street or way corresponds in location and extent with a street or way shown on
a recorded plat which has been legally accepted by the legislative authority.
Statutory reference:
   Power over streets and sidewalks, see R.C. §§ 715.19, 717.01(P), 723.01,
723.011, 723.02, and 729.01
§ 94.141 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized municipal
official or the authorized employees or agents of such municipal official, to
make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of the
municipality unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to
commencement of the work.
Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.142 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the Mayor or other proper municipal officer. Application
shall be made on a form prescribed by the legislative authority, giving the
exact location of the proposed opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth
to be excavated, and such other facts as may be provided for. The permit shall
be issued only after a cash deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration
has been posted with the Mayor or other proper municipal officer, conditioned
upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of excavations and restoration of all
surfaces disturbed.
§ 94.143 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of an authorized
municipal official, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and
specifications approved by the legislative authority.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the municipality may proceed
without notice to make such fill and restoration, and the deposit referred to
in §
94.142 shall be deemed forfeited. Thereupon, the deposit shall be paid into the
Street Repair Fund of the municipality, except such part demanded and paid to
the permittee as the difference between the deposit and the charges of the
municipality for restoration services performed by it. If the amount of such
services performed by the municipality should exceed the amount of the deposit,
the Clerk or other proper municipal officer shall proceed to collect the
remainder due from such permittee.
§ 94.144 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating, or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.145 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night shall install and maintain at least
two illuminated warning lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously posted
on, at, or near each end of such obstruction or excavation, and if the space
involved shall exceed 50 feet in extent, then at least one additional lamp for
each added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.146 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION BY THE MUNICIPALITY.
   It shall be the duty of the engineer of the municipality or, if none exist,
another authorized municipal official, to supervise construction or repair of
sidewalks within the municipality. He or she shall cause specifications to be
prepared for the construction of the various kinds of pavements and transmit
the same to the legislative authority for approval. When the specifications are
approved, the legislative authority shall advertise for proposals to do all the
work which may be ordered by the municipality in construction and repair of
sidewalks, and shall contract therefor, for a period not exceeding one year,
with the lowest responsible bidder, who shall furnish good and sufficient
sureties for the faithful performance of the work. The legislative authority,
if it deems advisable, may make separate contracts for the different kinds of
work with different parties.
Cross-reference:
   Legislative authority; contracts, see §§
32.025 through
32.029
§ 94.147 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the
municipality, by throwing or letting the same fall upon the pavement of any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some
sufficient protection over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.148 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land bordering on any street
or sidewalk shall permit the same to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
94.999
Cross-reference:
   Placing injurious materials and litter upon streets or highways prohibited,
see §
72.122
§ 94.149 FLAGPOLE ALONG RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   A property owner in the municipality may install a flagpole between
the sidewalk and curb along the right-of-way of any public street or highway
adjacent to his or her property. A property owner may also install underground
lighting for the display of the flag. Installation of the flagpole and holder
shall meet the following specifications:
      (1)   The flagpole holder shall be embedded in concrete, flush with the
sidewalk or sodded area, and possess a cap or cover which shall be used when
the holder is not used for the purpose of displaying the American flag;
      (2)   The holder shall not exceed two inches in diameter and shall be
installed not less than one foot from the curb;
      (3)   Underground lighting for the flagpole shall be situated within a
reasonable distance to the holder and meet all underwriters’ requirements
governing installation. The highest part of the lighting fixture shall at all
times be flush with the sidewalk or sodded area in which it is embedded; and
      (4)   At no time shall the flag, flagpole, or holder limit or restrict
the view of pedestrian or vehicular traffic, nor shall a flag, flagpole, or
holder be installed that comes in physical contact, or is likely to come in
physical contact, with overhead wiring.
   (B)   The municipality may require the issuance of a permit for installation
of flagpoles but shall not charge the property owner a permit fee or an
inspection fee in excess of $1 per installation.
(R.C. § 723.012) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to any other penalties set forth in §§
94.001 to
94.020, and the remedy of specific performance which may be enforced in the
Magistrate Court, the following penalties shall apply:
      (1)   Any person, firm, corporation, or permittee violating §§
94.001(D) or
94.012(A) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Each day such
violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense; and
      (2)   For failure to comply with any other provision of §§
94.001 to
94.020, the penalty shall be a civil forfeiture, payable to the municipality,
in the amount of $100 per day for each day of violation.
   (B)   Any permittee may be excused for violations of §§
94.001 to
94.020 and its permit for reasons of force majeure.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation failing to identify, within 60 days
after the passage of §§
94.090 through
94.096, any house, building, or other structure occupied by him or her shall be
fined $25. Each day’s continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   Whoever violates any other provisions of this chapter for which
another penalty is not already provided shall be subject to the penalty as
prescribed in §
10.99.
(Ord. 97-105, passed 2-3-1997; Ord. 98-119, passed 4-20-1998)
CHAPTER 95: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Village Tree Board
   
95.03   Interference with Board prohibited
   
95.04   Review of Board decisions by Council
   
95.05   Street tree species to be planted
   
95.06   Tree topping
   
95.07   Pruning and maintenance of trees on private property
   
95.08   Removal of dead or diseased trees on private property
   
95.09   Removal of stumps
   
95.10   Cottonwood trees prohibited
   
95.11   Tree Management Plan adopted
 
   
95.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Subdivision regulations:
      Erosion and sedimentation control, see §
152.074
      Generally, see
Ch. 152
      Landscaping, see §
152.075
   Zoning regulations
      Generally, see
Ch. 153
      Landscaping and screening, see §§
153.275 et seq.
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation in public
parks or beauty areas owned by the village.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on land
lying within a village right-of-way.
   TOPPING. The severe cutting-back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches
in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a degree as to remove the normal
canopy and disfigure the tree.
(Ord. 95-131, passed 5-15-1995)
§ 95.02 VILLAGE TREE BOARD.
   (A)   Establishment; membership. There is hereby established a Village Tree
Board which shall consist of three members who are citizens and residents of
the village and who shall be appointed by Council.
   (B)   Term of office; compensation.
      (1)   One of the members of the Board shall be appointed for one year,
one for two years, and one for three years. Thereafter, members shall be
appointed for a term of three years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur
during the term of any member, his or her successor shall be appointed for the
unexpired portion.
      (2)   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
   (C)   Powers and duties. It shall be the responsibility of the Board to
study, investigate, counsel, develop or update annually, and administer a
written plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting,
removal, or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets, and in
other public areas. The plan will be presented annually to the Council, and
upon its acceptance and approval, shall constitute the official Comprehensive
Village Tree Plan. The Board, when requested by Council, shall consider,
investigate, and make findings, report, and recommend upon any special matter
or questions coming within the scope of its work.
   (D)   Operation; rules and regulations. The Board shall choose its own
officers, make its own rules and regulations, and keep minutes of its
proceedings. A majority of the members shall be a quorum for the transaction of
its business.
(Ord. 95-131, passed 5-15-1995)
§ 95.03 INTERFERENCE WITH BOARD PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay, or interfere with the
Village Tree Board, or any of its agents, while they are engaging in and about
the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying, or removing of any
street trees, park trees, or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this
chapter.
(Ord. 95-131, passed 5-15-1995) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 REVIEW OF BOARD DECISIONS BY COUNCIL.
   Council shall have the right to review any conduct, acts, and decisions of
the Village Tree Board. Any person may appeal any ruling or order of the Board
to the Council, which may hear the matter and make a final decision.
(Ord. 95-131, passed 5-15-1995)
§ 95.05 STREET TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   The Village Tree Board shall develop and maintain a list of tree species. No
species other than those included on the list may be planted as street trees
without written permission of the Board. The Board shall also develop spacing
intervals for the various species of trees.
(Ord. 95-131, passed 5-15-1995)
§ 95.06 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm, or village
department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public property.
Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under
utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices are
impractical, may be exempted from this section at the determination of the
Village Tree Board.
(Ord. 95-131, passed 5-15-1995) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07 PRUNING AND MAINTENANCE OF TREES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within
the village shall prune the branches so that the branches shall not obstruct
the light from any street lamp and thus obstruct the view of any street
intersection, and so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the
surface of the sidewalk and 14 feet above the surface of the street. The owners
shall remove all dead, diseased, or dangerous trees, or broken or decayed
limbs, which constitute a menace to the safety of the public.
   (B)   The village shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private
property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street
from a street light or interferes with visibility of any traffic-control device
or sign.
(Ord. 95-131, passed 5-15-1995) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.08 REMOVAL OF DEAD OR DISEASED TREES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   The village shall have the right to cause removal of any dead or
diseased trees on private property within the village when the trees constitute
a hazard to life or property, or harbor insects or disease which constitutes a
potential threat to other trees within the village.
   (B)   The Village Tree Board will notify in writing the owners of such
trees. Removal shall be done by the owners at their own expense within 60 days
after the date of service of notice.
   (C)   In the event the owners fail to comply with the provisions of this
section, the village shall have the authority to remove the trees and charge
the cost of removal on the owner’s property tax notice.
(Ord. 95-131, passed 5-15-1995)
§ 95.09 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street trees and park trees shall be removed below the surface
of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface
of the ground.
(Ord. 95-131, passed 5-15-1995)
§ 95.10 COTTONWOOD TREES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall plant or cause to be planted trees of the cottonwood variety
within the village.
(Ord. 95-131, passed 5-15-1995) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.11 TREE MANAGEMENT PLAN ADOPTED.
   The Tree Management Plan for the village is hereby adopted by reference and
shall be treated as if set forth in full herein.
(Res. 97-121, passed 3-17-1997; Res. 97-183, passed 1-5-1998; Res. 98-168,
passed 12-21-1998)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall be fined not more than $100.
(Ord. 95-131, passed 5-15-1995)
CHAPTER 96: UNCLAIMED AND ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
96.01   Impounding motor vehicle on private property; requirements
   
96.02   Impounding motor vehicle on public property; notice; disposition
   
96.03   Disposition of vehicle ordered into storage
   
96.04   Disposition of abandoned junk motor vehicles
   
96.05   Prohibition against abandonment of junk motor vehicle
   
96.06   Junk motor vehicle; order to cover or remove; notice; exceptions
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances generally, see
Ch. 93
Statutory reference:
   Abandonment of vessels or outboard motors upon private property and mooring
of vessels at private docks or mooring facilities, see R.C. § 1547.30
§ 96.01 IMPOUNDING MOTOR VEHICLE ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The chief of a law enforcement agency of the municipal
corporation, upon complaint of any person adversely affected, may order into
storage any motor vehicle, other than an abandoned junk motor vehicle as
defined in R.C. § 4513.63, that has been left on private residential or private
agricultural property for at least four hours without the permission of the
person having the right to the possession of the property. The chief, upon
complaint of a repair garage or place of storage, may order into storage any
motor vehicle, other than an abandoned junk motor vehicle, that has been left
at the garage or place of storage for a longer period than that agreed upon.
When ordering a motor vehicle into storage pursuant to this division, the chief
may arrange for the removal of the motor vehicle by a towing service and shall
designate a storage facility.
      (2)   A towing service towing a motor vehicle under division (A)(1) of
this section shall remove the motor vehicle in accordance with that division.
The towing service shall deliver the motor vehicle to the location designated
by the chief not more than two hours after the time it is removed from the
private property, unless the towing service is unable to deliver the motor
vehicle within two hours due to an uncontrollable force, natural disaster, or
other event that is not within the power of the towing service.
      (3)   Subject to division (B) of this section, the owner of a motor
vehicle that has been removed pursuant to this division (A) may recover the
vehicle only in accordance with division (D) of this section.
      (4)   As used in this section, PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY means private
property on which is located one or more structures that are used as a home,
residence, or sleeping place by one or more persons, if no more than three
separate households are maintained in the structure or structures. The phrase
does not include any private property on which is located one or more
structures that are used as a home, residence, or sleeping place by two or more
persons, if more than three separate households are maintained in the structure
or structures.
   (B)   (1)   If the owner or operator of a motor vehicle that has been
ordered into storage pursuant to division (A)(1) of this section arrives after
the motor vehicle has been prepared for removal, but prior to its actual
removal from the property, the towing service shall give the owner or operator
oral or written notification at the time of such arrival that the vehicle owner
or operator may pay a fee of not more than one-half of the fee for the removal
of the motor vehicle established by the Public Utilities Commission in rules
adopted under R.C. § 4921.25, in order to obtain release of the motor vehicle.
However, if the vehicle is within a municipal corporation and the municipal
corporation has established a vehicle removal fee, the towing service shall
give the owner or operator oral or written notification that the owner or
operator may pay not more than one-half of that fee to obtain release of the
motor vehicle. That fee may be paid by use of a major credit card unless the
towing service uses a mobile credit card processor and mobile service is not
available at the time of the transaction.
      (2)   Upon payment of the applicable fee, the towing service shall give
the vehicle owner or operator a receipt showing both the full amount normally
assessed and the actual amount received and shall release the motor vehicle to
the owner or operator. Upon its release, the owner or operator immediately
shall move it so that it is not on the private residential or private
agricultural property without the permission of the person having the right to
possession of the property, or is not at the garage or place of storage without
the permission of the owner, whichever is applicable.
   (C)   (1)   The chief of a law enforcement agency in the municipal
corporation shall maintain a record of motor vehicles that the chief orders
into storage pursuant to division (A)(1) of this section. The record shall
include an entry for each such motor vehicle that identifies the motor
vehicle's license number, make, model, and color, the location from which it
was removed, the date and time of its removal, the telephone number of the
person from whom it may be recovered, and the address of the place to which it
has been taken and from which it may be recovered. The chief shall provide any
information in the record that pertains to a particular motor vehicle to any
person who, either in person or pursuant to a telephone call, identifies self
as the owner or operator of the motor vehicle and requests information
pertaining to its location.
      (2)   Any person who registers a complaint that is the basis of the
chief's order for the removal and storage of a motor vehicle under division (A)
(1) of this section shall provide the identity of the law enforcement agency
with which the complaint was registered to any person who identifies self as
the owner or operator of the motor vehicle and requests information pertaining
to its location.
   (D)   (1)   The owner or lienholder of a motor vehicle that is ordered into
storage pursuant to division (A)(1) of this section may reclaim it upon both of
the following:
         (a)   Payment of all applicable fees established by the Public
Utilities Commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25 or, if the vehicle
was towed within a municipal corporation that has established fees for vehicle
removal and storage, payment of all applicable fees established by the
municipal corporation; and
         (b)   Presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by a
certificate of title to the motor vehicle, a certificate of registration for
the motor vehicle, or a lease agreement.
      (2)   When the owner of a vehicle towed under this section retrieves the
vehicle, the towing service or storage facility in possession of the vehicle
shall give the owner written notice that if the owner disputes that the motor
vehicle was lawfully towed, the owner may be able to file a civil action under
R.C. § 4513.611.
      (3)   Upon presentation of proof of ownership as required under division
(D)(1)(b) of this section, the owner of a motor vehicle that is ordered into
storage under division (A)(1) of this section may retrieve any personal items
from the motor vehicle without retrieving the vehicle and without paying any
fee. However, a towing service or storage facility may charge an after-hours
retrieval fee established by the Public Utilities Commission in rules adopted
under R.C. § 4921.25 if the owner retrieves the personal items after hours,
unless the towing service or storage facility fails to provide the notice
required under R.C. § 4513.69(B)(3), if applicable. The owner of a motor
vehicle shall not do either of the following:
         (a)   Retrieve any personal item that has been determined by the chief
to be necessary to a criminal investigation;
         (b)   Retrieve any personal item from a vehicle if it would endanger
the safety of the owner, unless the owner agrees to sign a waiver of liability.
      (4)   For purposes of division (D)(3) of this section, PERSONAL ITEMS do
not include any items that are attached to the motor vehicle.
      (5)   If a motor vehicle that is ordered into storage pursuant to
division (A)(1) of this section remains unclaimed by the owner for 30 days, the
procedures established by R.C. §§ 4513.61 and 4513.62 apply.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall remove, or cause the removal of, any motor
vehicle from any private residential or private agricultural property other
than in accordance with division (A)(1) of this section or R.C. §§ 4513.61 to
4513.65.
      (2)   No towing service or storage facility shall fail to comply with the
requirements of this section.
   (F)   This section does not apply to any private residential or private
agricultural property that is established as a private tow-away zone in
accordance with division (H) of this section or R.C. § 4513.601.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.60)
   (H)   Private tow-away zones.
      (1)   The owner of a private property may establish a private tow-away
zone, but may do so only if all of the following conditions are satisfied:
         (a)   The owner of the private property posts on the property a sign,
that is at least 18 inches by 24 inches in size, that is visible from all
entrances to the property, and that includes all of the following information:
            1.   A statement that the property is a tow-away zone;
            2.   A description of persons authorized to park on the property.
If the property is a residential property, the owner of the private property
may include on the sign a statement that only tenants and guests may park in
the private tow-away zone, subject to the terms of the property owner. If the
property is a commercial property, the owner of the private property may
include on the sign a statement that only customers may park in the private
tow-away zone. In all cases, if it is not apparent which persons may park in
the private tow-away zone, the owner of the private property shall include on
the sign the address of the property on which the private tow-away zone is
located or the name of the business that is located on the property designated
as a private tow-away zone;
            3.   If the private tow-away zone is not enforceable at all times,
the times during which the parking restrictions are enforced;
            4.   The telephone number and the address of the place from which a
towed vehicle may be recovered at any time during the day or night;
            5.   A statement that the failure to recover a towed vehicle may
result in the loss of title to the vehicle as provided in R.C. § 4505.101(B);
and
            6.   In order to comply with the requirements of division (H)(1)(a)
of this section, the owner of a private property may modify an existing sign by
affixing to the existing sign stickers or an addendum in lieu of replacing the
sign.
         (b)   A towing service ensures that a vehicle towed under this
division (H) is taken to a location from which it may be recovered that
complies with all of the following:
            1.   It is located within 25 linear miles of the location of the
private tow- away zone, unless it is not practicable to take the vehicle to a
place of storage within 25 linear miles;
            2.   It is well-lighted; and
            3.   It is on or within a reasonable distance of a regularly
scheduled route of one or more modes of public transportation, if any public
transportation is available in the municipal corporation or township in which
the private tow-away zone is located.
      (2)   (a)   If a vehicle is parked on private property that is
established as a private tow-away zone in accordance with division (H)(1) of
this section, without the consent of the owner of the private property or in
violation of any posted parking condition or regulation, the owner of the
private property may cause the removal of the vehicle by a towing service. The
towing service shall remove the vehicle in accordance with this division (H).
The vehicle owner and the operator of the vehicle are considered to have
consented to the removal and storage of the vehicle, to the payment of the
applicable fees established by the Public Utilities Commission in rules adopted
under R.C. § 4921.25, and to the right of a towing service to obtain title to
the vehicle if it remains unclaimed as provided in R.C. § 4505.101. The owner
or lienholder of a vehicle that has been removed under this division (H),
subject to division (H)(3) of this section, may recover the vehicle in
accordance with division (H)(7) of this section.
         (b)   If a municipal corporation requires tow trucks and tow truck
operators to be licensed, no owner of a private property located within the
municipal corporation shall cause the removal and storage of any vehicle
pursuant to this division (H)(2) by an unlicensed tow truck or unlicensed tow
truck operator.
         (c)   No towing service shall remove a vehicle from a private tow-away
zone except pursuant to a written contract for the removal of vehicles entered
into with the owner of the private property on which the private tow-away zone
is located.
      (3)   If the owner or operator of a vehicle that is being removed under
authority of division (H)(2) of this section arrives after the vehicle has been
prepared for removal, but prior to its actual removal from the property, the
towing service shall give the vehicle owner or operator oral or written
notification at the time of such arrival that the vehicle owner or operator may
pay a fee of not more than one-half of the fee for the removal of the vehicle
established by the Public Utilities Commission in rules adopted under R.C. §
4921.25 in order to obtain release of the vehicle. That fee may be paid by use
of a major credit card unless the towing service uses a mobile credit card
processor and mobile service is not available at the time of the transaction.
Upon payment of that fee, the towing service shall give the vehicle owner or
operator a receipt showing both the full amount normally assessed and the
actual amount received and shall release the vehicle to the owner or operator.
Upon its release, the owner or operator immediately shall move the vehicle so
that the vehicle is not parked on the private property established as a private
tow-away zone without the consent of the owner of the private property or in
violation of any posted parking condition or regulation.
      (4)   (a)   Prior to towing a vehicle under division (H)(2) of this
section, a towing service shall make all reasonable efforts to take as many
photographs as necessary to evidence that the vehicle is clearly parked on
private property in violation of a private tow-away zone established under
division (H)(1) of this section. The towing service shall record the time and
date of the photographs taken under this division (H). The towing service shall
retain the photographs and the record of the time and date, in electronic or
printed form, for at least 30 days after the date on which the vehicle is
recovered by the owner or lienholder or at least two years after the date on
which the vehicle was towed, whichever is earlier.
         (b)   A towing service shall deliver a vehicle towed under division
(H)(2) of this section to the location from which it may be recovered not more
than two hours after the time it was removed from the private tow-away zone,
unless the towing service is unable to deliver the motor vehicle within two
hours due to an uncontrollable force, natural disaster, or other event that is
not within the power of the towing service.
      (5)   (a)   If an owner of a private property that is established as a
private tow-away zone in accordance with division (H)(1) of this section causes
the removal of a vehicle from that property by a towing service under division
(H)(2) of this section, the towing service, within two hours of removing the
vehicle, shall provide notice to the law enforcement agency of the municipal
corporation concerning all of the following:
            1.   The vehicle’s license number, make, model, and color;
            2.   The location from which the vehicle was removed;
            3.   The date and time the vehicle was removed;
            4.   The telephone number of the person from whom the vehicle may
be recovered; and
            5.   The address of the place from which the vehicle may be
recovered.
         (b)   The chief of a law enforcement agency of the municipal
corporation shall maintain a record of any vehicle removed from private
property in the chief's jurisdiction that is established as a private tow-away
zone of which the chief has received notice under this division (H). The record
shall include all information submitted by the towing service. The chief shall
provide any information in the record that pertains to a particular vehicle to
a person who, either in person or pursuant to a telephone call, identifies self
as the owner, operator, or lienholder of the vehicle and requests information
pertaining to the vehicle.
      (6)   (a)   When a vehicle is removed from private property in accordance
with this section, within three business days of the removal, the towing
service or storage facility from which the vehicle may be recovered shall cause
a search to be made of either of the following to ascertain the identity of the
owner and any lienholder of the vehicle:
            1.   The records of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles;
            2.   The records of any vendor or vendors, approved by the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles, that are capable of providing real-time access to
owner and lienholder information.
         (b)   The towing service or storage facility may search the National
Motor Vehicle Title Information System in order to determine the state in which
the vehicle is titled. The entity that provides the record of the owner and any
lienholder under this division shall ensure that such information is provided
in a timely manner.
         (c)   Subject to division (H)(6)(f) of this section, the towing
service or storage facility shall send notice to the vehicle owner and any
known lienholder as follows:
            1.   Within five business days after the applicable entity provides
the identity of the owner and any lienholder of the motor vehicle, if the
vehicle remains unclaimed, to the owner's and lienholder's last known address
by certified or express mail with return receipt requested, by certified mail
with electronic tracking, or by a commercial carrier service utilizing any form
of delivery requiring a signed receipt;
            2.   If the vehicle remains unclaimed 30 days after the first
notice is sent, in the manner required under division (H)(6)(c)1. of this
section.
         (d)   Sixty days after any notice sent pursuant to division (H)(6)(c)
of this section is received, as evidenced by a receipt signed by any person, or
the towing service or storage facility has been notified that delivery was not
possible, the towing service or storage facility, if authorized under R.C. §
4505.101(B), may initiate the process for obtaining a certificate of title to
the motor vehicle as provided in that section.
         (e)   A towing service or storage facility that does not receive a
signed receipt of notice, or a notification that delivery was not possible,
shall not obtain, and shall not attempt to obtain, a certificate of title to
the motor vehicle under R.C. § 4505.101(B).
         (f)   With respect to a vehicle concerning which a towing service or
storage facility is not eligible to obtain title under R.C. § 4505.101, the
towing service or storage facility need only comply with the initial notice
required under division (H)(6)(c)1. of this section.
      (7)   (a)   The owner or lienholder of a vehicle that is removed under
division (H)(2) of this section may reclaim it upon both of the following:
            1.   Presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by
a certificate of title to the vehicle, a certificate of registration for the
motor vehicle, or a lease agreement; and
            2.   Payment of the following fees:
               a.   All applicable fees established by the Public Utilities
Commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25, except that the lienholder of
a vehicle may retrieve the vehicle without paying any storage fee for the
period of time that the vehicle was in the possession of the towing service or
storage facility prior to the date the lienholder received the notice sent
under division (H)(6)(a)1. of this section;
               b.   If notice has been sent to the owner and lienholder as
described in division (H)(6) of this section, a processing fee of $25.
         (b)   A towing service or storage facility in possession of a vehicle
that is removed under authority of division (H)(2) of this section shall show
the vehicle owner, operator, or lienholder who contests the removal of the
vehicle all photographs taken under division (H)(4) of this section. Upon
request, the towing service or storage facility shall provide a copy of all
photographs in the medium in which the photographs are stored, whether paper,
electronic, or otherwise.
         (c)   When the owner of a vehicle towed under this section retrieves
the vehicle, the towing service or storage facility in possession of the
vehicle shall give the owner written notice that if the owner disputes that the
motor vehicle was lawfully towed, the owner may be able to file a civil action
under R.C. § 4513.611.
         (d)   Upon presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced
by a certificate of title to the vehicle, a certificate of registration for the
motor vehicle, or a lease agreement, the owner of a vehicle that is removed
under authority of division (H)(2) of this section may retrieve any personal
items from the vehicle without retrieving the vehicle and without paying any
fee. The owner of the vehicle shall not retrieve any personal items from a
vehicle if it would endanger the safety of the owner, unless the owner agrees
to sign a waiver of liability. For purposes of this division (H)(7)(d),
PERSONAL ITEMS do not include any items that are attached to the vehicle.
      (8)   No person shall remove, or cause the removal of, any vehicle from
private property that is established as a private tow-away zone under this
division (H) or store such a vehicle other than in accordance with this
division (H), or otherwise fail to comply with any applicable requirement of
this division (H).
      (9)   This section does not affect or limit the operation of divisions
(A) through (G) of this section, R.C. § 4513.60 or R.C. §§ 4513.61 to 4613.65
as they relate to property other than private property that is established as a
private tow-away zone under division (H)(1) of this section.
      (10)   Whoever violates division (H)(8) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (11)   As used in this section, OWNER OF A PRIVATE PROPERTY or OWNER OF
THE PRIVATE PROPERTY includes, with respect to a private property, any of the
following:
         (a)   Any person who holds title to the property;
         (b)   Any person who is a lessee or sublessee with respect to a lease
or sublease agreement for the property;
         (c)   A person who is authorized to manage the property; and
         (d)   A duly authorized agent of any person listed in divisions (H)
(11)(a) to (H)(11)(c) of this section.
(R.C. § 4513.601)
§ 96.02 IMPOUNDING MOTOR VEHICLE ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; NOTICE; DISPOSITION.
   (A)   The County Sheriff or Chief of Police, within the Sheriff’s or Chief’s
respective territorial jurisdiction, or a state highway patrol trooper, upon
notification to the Sheriff or Chief of Police of such action and of the
location of the place of storage, may order into storage any motor vehicle,
including an abandoned junk motor vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4513.63, that:
      (1)   Has come into the possession of the Sheriff, Chief of Police, or
state highway patrol trooper as a result of the performance of the Sheriff’s,
Chief’s, or trooper’s duties; or
      (2)   Has been left on a public street or other property open to the
public for purposes of vehicular travel, or upon or within the right-of-way of
any road or highway, for 48 hours or longer without notification to the Sheriff
or Chief of Police of the reasons for leaving the motor vehicle in such place.
However, when such a motor vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic, it
may be ordered into storage immediately unless either of the following applies:
         (a)   The vehicle was involved in an accident and is subject to R.C. §
4513.66, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance; or
         (b)   The vehicle is a commercial motor vehicle. If the vehicle is a
commercial motor vehicle, the Sheriff, Chief of Police, or state highway patrol
trooper shall allow the owner or operator of the vehicle the opportunity to
arrange for the removal of the motor vehicle within a period of time specified
by the Sheriff, Chief of Police, or state highway patrol trooper. If the
Sheriff, Chief of Police, or state highway patrol trooper determines that the
vehicle cannot be removed within the specified period of time, the Sheriff,
Chief of Police, or state highway patrol trooper shall order the removal of the
vehicle.
      (3)   Subject to division (C) of this section, the Sheriff or Chief of
Police shall designate the place of storage of any motor vehicle so ordered
removed.
   (B)   If the Sheriff, Chief of Police, or a state highway patrol trooper
issues an order under division (A) of this section and arranges for the removal
of a motor vehicle by a towing service, the towing service shall deliver the
motor vehicle to the location designated by the Sheriff or Chief of Police not
more than two hours after the time it is removed.
   (C)   (1)   The Sheriff or Chief of Police shall cause a search to be made
of the records of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles to ascertain the identity of the
owner and any lienholder of a motor vehicle ordered into storage by the Sheriff
or Chief of Police, or by a state highway patrol trooper within five business
days of the removal of the vehicle. Upon obtaining such identity, the Sheriff
or Chief of Police shall send or cause to be sent to the owner or lienholder at
the owner’s or lienholder’s last known address by certified mail with return
receipt requested, notice that informs the owner or lienholder that the motor
vehicle will be declared a nuisance and disposed of if not claimed within ten
days of the date of mailing of the notice.
      (2)   (a)   The owner or lienholder of the motor vehicle may reclaim the
motor vehicle upon payment of any expenses or charges incurred in its removal
and storage, and presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by
a certificate of title or memorandum certificate of title to the motor vehicle,
a certificate of registration for the motor vehicle, or a lease agreement. Upon
presentation of proof of ownership evidenced as provided above, the owner of
the motor vehicle also may retrieve any personal items from the vehicle without
retrieving the vehicle and without paying any fee. However, a towing service or
storage facility may charge an after-hours retrieval fee established by the
Public Utilities Commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25 if the owner
retrieves the personal items after hours, unless the towing service or storage
facility fails to provide the notice required under R.C. § 4513.69(B)(3), if
applicable. However, the owner shall not do either of the following:
            1.   Retrieve any personal item that has been determined by the
Sheriff, Chief of Police, or a state highway patrol trooper, as applicable, to
be necessary to a criminal investigation; or
            2.   Retrieve any personal item from a vehicle if it would endanger
the safety of the owner, unless the owner agrees to sign a waiver of liability.
         (b)   For purposes of division (C)(2) of this section, PERSONAL ITEMS
do not include any items that are attached to the vehicle.
      (3)   If the owner or lienholder of the motor vehicle reclaims it after a
search of the records of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles has been conducted and
after notice has been sent to the owner or lienholder as described in this
section, and the search was conducted by the place of storage, and the notice
was sent to the motor vehicle owner by the place of storage, the owner or
lienholder shall pay to the place of storage a processing fee of $25, in
addition to any expenses or charges incurred in the removal and storage of the
vehicle.
   (D)   If the owner or lienholder makes no claim to the motor vehicle within
ten days of the date of mailing of the notice, and if the vehicle is to be
disposed of at public auction as provided in R.C. § 4513.62 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the Sheriff or Chief of Police,
without charge to any party, shall file with the Clerk of Courts of the county
in which the place of storage is located an affidavit showing compliance with
the requirements of this section. Upon presentation of the affidavit, the
Clerk, without charge, shall issue a salvage certificate of title, free and
clear of all liens and encumbrances, to the Sheriff or Chief of Police. If the
vehicle is to be disposed of to a motor vehicle salvage dealer or other
facility as provided in R.C. § 4513.62 or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the Sheriff or Chief of Police shall execute in triplicate
an affidavit, as prescribed by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, describing the
motor vehicle and the manner in which it was disposed of, and that all
requirements of this section have been complied with. The Sheriff or Chief of
Police shall retain the original of the affidavit for the Sheriff’s or Chief’s
records, and shall furnish two copies to the motor vehicle salvage dealer or
other facility. Upon presentation of a copy of the affidavit by the motor
vehicle salvage dealer, the Clerk of Courts, within 30 days of the
presentation, shall issue a salvage certificate of title, free and clear of all
liens and encumbrances.
   (E)   Whenever a motor vehicle salvage dealer or other facility receives an
affidavit for the disposal of a motor vehicle as provided in this section, the
dealer or facility shall not be required to obtain a state certificate of title
to the motor vehicle in the dealer’s or facility’s own name if the vehicle is
dismantled or destroyed and both copies of the affidavit are delivered to the
Clerk of Courts.
   (F)   No towing service or storage facility shall fail to comply with this
section.
   (G)   In addition to the other provisions of this section, any person who
leaves any motor vehicle upon or within the right-of-way of any road or highway
for 48 hours or longer without notification to the Police Chief of the reasons
for leaving the motor vehicle in such place shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.61) (Ord. 2012-032, passed 8-20-2012)
§ 96.03 DISPOSITION OF VEHICLE ORDERED INTO STORAGE.
   (A)   An unclaimed motor vehicle ordered into storage pursuant to §
95.01(A)(1) or §
95.02 subject to one of the following:
      (1)   The chief of a law enforcement agency in the municipal corporation
may dispose of it with a motor vehicle salvage dealer or scrap metal processing
facility as defined in R.C. § 4737.05, or with any other facility owned by or
under contract with the municipality for the disposal of such motor vehicles.
      (2)   The chief or a licensed auctioneer may sell the motor vehicle at
public auction, after giving notice thereof by advertisement, published once a
week for two successive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the
county or as provided in R.C. § 7.16.
      (3)   A towing service or storage facility may obtain title to the motor
vehicle in accordance with R.C. § 4505.104.
   (B)   Any moneys accrued pursuant to division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this
section that are in excess of the expenses resulting from the removal and
storage of the vehicle shall be credited to the general fund of the
municipality.
(R.C. § 4513.62)
§ 96.04 DISPOSITION OF ABANDONED JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   As used in this section, ABANDONED JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE means any motor
vehicle meeting all of the following requirements:
      (1)   The vehicle is left on private property for 48 hours or longer
without the permission of the person having the right to the possession of the
property, on a public street or other property open to the public for purposes
of vehicular travel or parking, or upon or within the right-of-way of any road
or highway for 48 hours or longer;
      (2)   The vehicle is three years old or older;
      (3)   The vehicle is extensively damaged, such damage including, but not
limited to, any of the following: missing wheels; tires; motor; or
transmission;
      (4)   The vehicle is apparently inoperable; and
      (5)   The vehicle has a fair market value of $1,500 or less.
   (B)   The chief of a law enforcement agency in the municipal corporation
shall order any abandoned junk motor vehicle to be photographed by a law
enforcement officer. The officer shall record the make of motor vehicle, the
serial number when available, and shall also detail the damage or missing
equipment to substantiate the value of $1,500 or less. The chief shall
thereupon immediately dispose of the abandoned junk motor vehicle to a motor
vehicle salvage dealer as defined in R.C. § 4738.01 or a scrap metal processing
facility as defined in R.C. § 4737.05 which is under contract to the
municipality, or to any other facility owned by or under contract with the
municipality for the destruction of such motor vehicles. The records and
photographs relating to the abandoned junk motor vehicle shall be retained by
the law enforcement agency ordering the disposition of such vehicle for a
period of at least two years. The law enforcement agency shall execute in
quadruplicate an affidavit, as prescribed by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles,
describing the motor vehicle and the manner in which it was disposed of, and
that all requirements of R.C. § 4513.63 have been complied with, and, within 30
days of disposing of the vehicle, shall sign and file the affidavit with the
clerk of courts of the county in which the motor vehicle was abandoned. The
clerk of courts retains the original of the affidavit for the clerk's files,
furnishes one copy thereof to the registrar, one copy to the motor vehicle
salvage dealer or other facility handling the disposal of the vehicle, and one
copy to the law enforcement agency ordering the disposal, who shall file such
copy with the records and photograph relating to the disposal. Any monies
arising from the disposal of an abandoned junk motor vehicle shall be deposited
in the General Fund of the municipality.
   (C)   Notwithstanding §
96.02, any motor vehicle meeting the requirements of division (A)(2), (A)(3),
and (A)(5) of this section which has remained unclaimed by the owner or
lienholder for a period of ten days or longer following notification as
provided in §
96.02 may be disposed of as provided in this section.
(R.C. § 4513.63)
§ 96.05 PROHIBITION AGAINST ABANDONMENT OF JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   NNo person shall willfully leave an abandoned junk motor vehicle
as defined in §
95.04 on private property for more than 72 hours without the permission of the
person having the right to the possession of the property, or on a public
street or other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking, or upon or within the right-of-way of any road or highway for 48 hours
or longer without notification to the chief of a law enforcement agency of the
municipal corporation of the reason for leaving the motor vehicle in such
place.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, the fact that a motor vehicle has
been so left without permission or notification is prima facie evidence of
abandonment.
      (3)   Nothing contained in §§
95.01, 95.02, and 95.04 and R.C. §§ 4513.60, 4513.61, and 4513.63 shall
invalidate or prevent the enactment of further provisions of municipal
ordinances regulating or prohibiting the abandonment of motor vehicles on
streets, highways, public property, or private property within the
municipality.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and
shall also be assessed any costs incurred by the municipality in disposing of
the abandoned junk motor vehicle that is the basis of the violation, less any
money accruing to the municipality from the disposal of the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.64)
§ 96.06 JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE; ORDER TO COVER OR REMOVE; NOTICE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section, JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE means any motor
vehicle meeting the requirements of §
95.04(A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4) and (A)(5) that is left uncovered in the open on
private property for more than 72 hours with the permission of the person
having the right to possession of the property, except if the person is
operating a junk yard or scrap metal processing facility licensed under the
authority of R.C. §§ 4737.05 through 4737.12, or otherwise regulated under
authority of a political subdivision; or if the property on which the motor
vehicle is left is not subject to licensure or regulation by any governmental
authority, unless the person having the right to the possession of the property
can establish that the motor vehicle is part of a bona fide commercial
operation; or if the motor vehicle is a collector’s vehicle.
      (2)   The municipality shall not prevent a person from storing or
keeping, or restrict him or her in the method of storing or keeping, any
collector’s vehicle on private property with the permission of the person
having the right to the possession of the property, except that the
municipality may require a person having such permission to conceal, by means
of buildings, fences, vegetation, terrain, or other suitable obstruction, any
unlicensed collector’s vehicle stored in the open.
      (3)   The chief of a law enforcement agency in the municipal corporation,
a state highway patrol trooper, the legislative authority, or the zoning
authority may send notice, by certified mail with return receipt requested, to
the person having the right to the possession of the property on which a junk
motor vehicle is left, that within ten days of receipt of the notice, the junk
motor vehicle either shall be covered by being housed in a garage or other
suitable structure, or shall be removed from the property.
      (4)   No person shall willfully leave a junk motor vehicle uncovered in
the open for more than ten days after receipt of a notice as provided in this
section. The fact that a junk motor vehicle is so left is prima facie evidence
of willful failure to comply with the notice, and each subsequent period of 30
days that a junk motor vehicle continues to be so left constitutes a separate
offense.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.65)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GARAGE SALES/HOME SALES
      
111.   HORSE DRAWN TAXIS
      
112.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND CANVASSERS
      
113.   VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDERS
      
114.   SHORT-TERM RENTALS
CHAPTER 110: GARAGE SALES/HOME SALES
Section
   
110.01   Definition
   
110.02   Intent
   
110.03   Permit required; compliance; maximum number of sales
   
110.04   Permit application; fee; display
   
110.05   Hours and merchandise permitted
   
110.06   Advertising regulations
   
110.07   Permits during Sauerkraut Festival
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Littering, see §
93.27
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate advertising, see R.C. § 715.65
§ 110.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE SALE/HOME SALE. The display or advertisement for sale of five or more
articles of tangible personal property within any residential zoning district
or in or upon a residential use in any other zoning district within the
village.
(Ord. 98-116, passed 4-6-1998)
§ 110.02 INTENT.
   (A)   It is the intent of this chapter to regulate, restrict, and control
garage sales/home sales conducted on residence premises within the village
corporate limits.
   (B)   It is not the intent of this chapter to prevent sales by bona fide
charitable, religious, or nonprofit organizations.
(Ord. 98-116, passed 4-6-1998)
§ 110.03 PERMIT REQUIRED; COMPLIANCE; MAXIMUM NUMBER OF SALES.
   (A)   No person or corporation shall conduct a garage sale/home sale within
a residential zoning district or in or upon a residence premises in any other
zoning district in the village without first obtaining a permit from the
Village Manager or his or her designee.
   (B)   No person who has obtained a permit shall violate any of the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   No garage sale/home sale shall be conducted on a property more than
twice during a calendar year.
(Ord. 98-116, passed 4-6-1998) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 PERMIT APPLICATION; FEE; DISPLAY.
   (A)   Application for such sale shall be made to the Village Manager or his
or her designee on the forms provided for such purpose during normal business
hours, prior to the first day of sale.
   (B)   Application for such licenses shall be submitted to and be approved by
the Village Manager or his or her designee after payment of a fee as
established by Village Council. The Village Manager may exempt from such fees
any bona fide charitable, religious, or nonprofit organization.
   (C)   Every permittee conducting a garage sale/home sale shall keep posted
in a prominent place, upon the licensed premises, the permit certificate and
shall exhibit the same upon request.
   (D)   The garage sale permit fee shall be as set forth by the village’s fee
schedule, as adopted by reference in §
36.05.
(Ord. 95-190, passed 12-4-1995; Ord. 96-175, passed 11-18-1996; Ord. 97-168,
passed 11-17-1997; Ord. 98-116, passed 4-6-1998) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 HOURS AND MERCHANDISE PERMITTED.
   (A)   No person shall conduct a garage sale/home sale except between the
hours of 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. or as regulated by the Chief of Police or his
or her designee because of traffic or weather conditions. No garage sale/home
sale shall last more than three consecutive days. No more than two such sales
shall be conducted on a property in any calendar year. In the event of
cancellation of a sale, the Village Manager may, upon written request of the
applicant, re-issue a permit for a sale at another time without additional
cost.
   (B)   No person shall offer any merchandise for sale that has been purchased
by or for, given to, or placed with the resident for purposes of resale at such
home sale. Any new merchandise offered for sale shall be prima-facie evidence
of merchandise purchased by the resident for resale at such home sale.
   (C)   The Manager may refuse to issue the required license for any sale
which, in his or her judgement, would be detrimental to the health, safety, and
welfare of the community or to the residential character of the neighborhood,
it being the intention to restrict such sales to casual sales of reasonable
amounts of tangible personal property.
(Ord. 98-116, passed 4-6-1998) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 ADVERTISING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No resident shall post more than two temporary signs advertising a
garage sale/home sale. The temporary signs shall be located as follows:
      (1)   One sign announcing the sale may be erected on the premises at
which the sale is being conducted; and
      (2)   One directional sign posted in the right-of-way at the corner of
the street where the sale is to be conducted.
   (B)   No sign or placard shall be attached in any manner to any utility
pole, fence, or any other structure within a public right-of-way. Such signs
shall be erected no earlier than the night before the first day of the sale and
such signs shall be removed no later than the close of the final day of the
sale. The signs or placards may be no larger than three square feet and must be
without illumination, movement, or illusion of movement.
(Ord. 98-116, passed 4-6-1998) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 PERMITS DURING SAUERKRAUT FESTIVAL.
   During the second full weekend of October of each year that the state’s
Sauerkraut Festival remains in existence, the village shall not issue any
permits for garage sales, temporary businesses, or any other event that would
substantially impair or impede the success of the state’s Sauerkraut Festival.
(Ord. 2008-040, passed 10-6-2008)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree and shall be punished as provided in §
130.99. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during which or
on which an offense occurs or continues.
(Ord. 98-116, passed 4-6-1998)
CHAPTER 111: HORSE DRAWN TAXIS
Section
   
111.01   Horse drawn taxis permitted
   
111.02   Permit application; required submissions
   
111.03   Stables
   
111.04   Care of animals
   
111.05   Carriage and operator restrictions
   
111.06   Horse carriage stands
   
111.07   Soliciting
   
111.08   Unloading of passengers
   
111.09   Cleaning and deodorizing
   
111.10   Copies of regulations to be made available
§ 111.01 HORSE DRAWN TAXIS PERMITTED.
   Horse drawn taxis shall be permitted within the village and the rules and
regulations set forth in this chapter are hereby adopted.
(Ord. 96-143, passed 8-19-1996)
§ 111.02 PERMIT APPLICATION; REQUIRED SUBMISSIONS.
   The licensee must submit with application the following.
   (A)   The number of animals owned or to be used in the business operation,
the animal’s name, description, approximate weight, age, and date last examined
by a veterinarian.
   (B)   The licensee shall provide two sets of photographs for each animal.
Each set will include one photograph showing the front of the horse and one
photograph showing the side of the horse with the name of the animal attached
to photo.
   (C)   One set of photographs will be provided to the Police Department, the
other is to be displayed with the vehicle license on the carriage that
particular animal is working.
   (D)   Any new animal being entered into service will be required to have an
examination by a veterinarian and be registered (see divisions (A), (B), and
(C) of this section) before being allowed on the street.
   (E)   All animal examinations are to be conducted at the appropriate stable.
It is the licensee’s responsibility to inform the Police Department as to the
date and time of such examinations. Whenever possible, a Police Department
employee will be present at the examination.
   (F)   Horse equipment such as harnesses, bridles, and bits must be properly
fitted, kept clean, and in good repair. Collars, if used, should fit the animal
properly.
   (G)   All horse drawn carriages shall display on both side and rear of each
vehicle the last two digits of the license number assigned to it by the
Director and shall be preceded by the legend, P.V. LIC. All lettering and
numbers shall be two inches in height and shall contrast distinctly with the
color of the vehicle. Required numbers and lettering shall be attached to the
vehicle as approved by the Director prior to installation.
   (H)   If licensee adopts to display the company’s name on the vehicle, all
lettering shall be a maximum of three inches in height and attached to the
vehicle as approved by the Director.
   (I)   Permit fee, in an amount set by Village Council: the permit fee for
such horse drawn taxis shall be as set forth in the village’s fee schedule, as
adopted by reference in §
36.05.
(Ord. 96-143, passed 8-19-1996; Ord. 97-168, passed 11-17-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 STABLES.
   (A)   The Director, or his or her designee, shall be allowed access to
stables at all reasonable times.
   (B)   All buildings and sheds used for stabling horses shall be well
lighted, ventilated, and provide protection from weather. All buildings and
sheds used for stabling animals shall be kept clean and in good repair at all
times and manure shall be removed therefrom daily. Any enclosure where the
animals are kept shall be graded and raked so as to keep the surface reasonably
dry.
   (C)   A pest control program should be utilized to control flies and other
insects. All facilities shall be free of unsanitary conditions where animals
are kept so as to be free and clean of conditions which might harbor or be
excessively conducive to breeding of insects, rodents, or disease.
   (D)   There shall be one box stall (12 feet by 12 feet) for every eight
horses housed in the stable. The stalls shall be of sufficient size to allow
for front-to-back and side-to-side movement of each horse.
   (E)   Stall bedding should be a minimum of four inches deep and changed
daily.
   (F)   Clean, fresh drinking water should be in the stalls or available to
the horses at all times.
   (G)   The paddock area of stables must be kept free of debris, have adequate
drainage and soil surface so it can be used by the horses at any time while not
working.
   (H)   Anytime a stable is relocated, the Police Department must be notified
immediately so inspections may be made before operations begin.
(Ord. 96-143, passed 8-19-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 CARE OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   No animal shall be subject to any cruel or harassing treatment,
including any violation of the veterinarian recommendations prescribed for each
horse, as well as the criteria established herein. The licensee shall be
responsible for the humane care and treatment of all animals used in the
business operation.
   (B)   If any animal in the stable is quarantined, for any reason, such
animal will not be allowed to operate until the quarantine is lifted, in
writing, by a veterinarian.
   (C)   Whenever a horse in a stable dies, a copy of an autopsy report or a
statement from a veterinarian as to the cause of death of the animal will be
furnished to the Police Department as soon as possible.
   (D)   The use of stallions is strictly prohibited.
   (E)   A licensee and/or driver shall adhere to the following.
      (1)   Horses used to pull vehicles/carriages shall be given a ten-minute
rest period at the end of two consecutive labor hours and potable water must be
made available during the rest period. Labor hours are defined as in-harness
hours for commercial purposes.
      (2)   (a)   It shall be unlawful to keep a horse in harness for
commercial purposes for periods in excess of eight successive labor hours
without a minimum of three successive hours out of harness.
         (b)   The eight-hour rule is defined as in-harness hours for
commercial purposes, whether those hours are accumulated in or out of state.
      (3)   Horses shall not be in-harness for commercial purposes more than
five days in a seven-day period.
   (F)   Horses hooves must be properly shod with rubber compound type horse
shoes, borium/driltex shoes, or similar non-slip type shoes to keep the animal
from slipping on the pavement, and the hoof shall be kept trimmed.
   (G)   Horses must receive adequate and substantial feeding daily which is
free from contamination. The feed should be of sufficient quantity and
nutritive value to meet normal daily requirements for the condition and size of
the animal so as to maintain a healthy flesh.
   (H)   Lame or sick horses will not be worked commercially.
   (I)   Horses will not be worked for commercial purposes during declared heat
emergency, using the official weather bureau temperature at the airport as a
guide; except where trips have been prearranged at least three days in advance.
Documentation to support the advance reservation must be provided to the Police
Department.
   (J)   In an effort to prevent abuses of the advanced booking requirement,
all horse drawn carriage operators must comply with the following.
      (1)   When a carriage company confirms a tour, it must notify the Police
Department immediately (as soon as is reasonably possible), and provide the
following information:
         (a)   Date and time of tour;
         (b)   Name and daytime phone number of clients;
         (c)   Duration of tour;
         (d)   Pickup point of tour; and
         (e)   Name of horse/horses to be used.
      (2)   Example: if the carriage company has a trip scheduled for Sunday
evening, you must notify the Police Department by 3:45 p.m. the preceding
Thursday.
   (K)   In the event that a heat emergency is declared, daily operations will
be cancelled until the heat emergency is lifted. There will be no exceptions.
Refunds or exchanges are the responsibility of the carriage companies.
   (L)   It is the responsibility of the various carriage companies, during
extremely hot weather conditions, to determine if a heat emergency has been
declared or cancelled by calling the Police Department at 897-8920 and
requesting to speak to the supervisor. The carriage company should identify
itself by carriage company name and tell the supervisor that the carriage
company is checking on the heat emergency status. Violation of this regulation
will be an automatic 30-day suspension.
   (M)   Whenever a horse drawn vehicle is found not to be in a safe and
sanitary condition, or does not fully comply with all requirements specified
herein above, or any regulation issued pursuant hereto, a complaint may be
filed with the Public Safety Director for violation thereof and subject to
penalties as set out in village ordinances.
   (N)   Whenever a horse is found not to be in healthy condition, a complaint
may be filed with the Public Safety Director, police officer, or any other city
department having jurisdiction. The above- mentioned parties, at their
discretion, may order a horse off the street. The licensee shall cause such
animal to be examined by a veterinarian at the licensee’s expense. The animal
will not be allowed back on the street until such time as receiving approval
from the Director based on veterinarian examination.
(Ord. 96-143, passed 8-19-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.05 CARRIAGE AND OPERATOR RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Carriage companies must abide by any order given by the Public Safety
Director, police officer, or any village department having jurisdiction.
   (B)   In the central business district, animal carriages may only use
carriage stands designated by Village Council to load or unload passengers.
   (C)   Horse drawn vehicle drivers must have a valid driver’s license issued
by the State of Ohio, Commonwealth of Kentucky, or the State of Indiana for the
duration of the private vehicle license period.
   (D)   Each horse drawn vehicle operator must have, on file with the Police
Department, a written copy of its training program used for training and
certifying drivers.
   (E)   Each driver must file a sworn affidavit that he or she has
successfully completed an apprenticeship of 40 hours with the horse drawn
vehicles/carriages or has previous experience exceeding 40 hours therein, which
includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   The proper method of fitting a harness to a horse and hitching/
unhitching a properly harnessed horse;
      (2)   Has ridden with a licensed driver for the first 24 hours of the
apprenticeship to observe the proper handling and driving of a horse drawn
vehicle and has been trained in emergency situations for unexpected animal
behavior;
      (3)   Has driven the horse drawn vehicle under the supervision of a
licensed driver for the last 16 hours of the apprenticeship in downtown
traffic;
      (4)   The affidavit must state whether the driver is trained for single
or team horse operation; and
      (5)   The affidavit must state who conducted the training program and
what his or her qualifications are.
   (F)   Horse drawn vehicle/carriage drivers shall travel only those
boundaries as designated for horse drawn vehicle/carriage travel, including
special occasion travel routes as approved by the Director or his designee.
   (G)   Horse drawn vehicles/carriages are prohibited from traveling in the
village between the hours of 1:30 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. There shall be no
exceptions.
   (H)   Horse drawn vehicles/carriages are prohibited from traveling in the
village between the hours of 3:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m., Monday through Friday,
except on national legal holidays.
   (I)   No driver shall operate a vehicle/carriage while under the influence
of intoxicating beverages or drugs.
   (J)   No person may consume edibles (including soft drinks), drink any
alcoholic beverage, or be intoxicated as defined by law while such person is
operating or being transported by horse drawn vehicles/carriages, nor may any
passenger carry, possess, or have any alcoholic beverage while being
transported by horse drawn vehicles/carriages, except in the original package
with the seal unbroken, in the village.
   (K)   The driver shall observe and obey all traffic laws and regulations of
the village and state.
   (L)   No driver shall abandon his or her vehicle/carriage, permit any
unlicensed driver to drive for him or her, except an apprentice, or permit any
passenger to ride on the driver’s seat.
   (M)   Drivers shall never permit the seating capacity rated for his or her
vehicle/carriage to be exceeded.
   (N)   The licensee shall not permit vehicles/carriages to travel village
streets unless the following is adhered to.
      (1)   Each vehicle/carriage with a seating capacity of one to 16
passengers, including the driver and guide, may be operated by one or more
horses.
      (2)   Each vehicle/carriage with a seating capacity from 17 to 24
passengers, including driver and guide, shall be operated with not less than
two horses.
      (3)   Each vehicle/carriage with a seating capacity from 25 to 50
passengers, including driver and guide, shall be operated with not less than
four horses.
   (O)   No passenger shall be permitted to stand or ride on any part of the
vehicle/carriage while in motion. Drivers shall take all necessary precautions
to prohibit such activity. All passengers must be seated except when loading or
unloading.
   (P)   Drivers are prohibited from smoking while carrying passengers for
optimum safety and control of the horse drawn vehicle/carriage and for the
safety of its occupants.
   (Q)   The driver of each horse drawn vehicle/carriage during travel from
one-half hour after sunset, and at all such other times as conditions exist for
poor visibility, shall cause the front lights and tail lights of the vehicle/
carriage to be in operation.
   (R)   The driver of each horse drawn vehicle/carriage upon approaching or
exiting a bridge, or during travel on a bridge, shall have the yellow lights
flashing in a continuous fashion.
   (S)   The driver shall not permit the speed at which any horse drawn
vehicle/carriage is driven to exceed a slow trot.
   (T)   Each vehicle/carriage must be maintained so as to ensure the safety of
its patrons and employees.
   (U)   Each vehicle/carriage must be equipped with a device to catch horse
manure from falling to the pavement for later disposal upon return to the base
of operations.
   (V)   Each vehicle/carriage will be equipped with a chemical to be poured
over horse urine by drivers so as to breakdown and eliminate accumulated agents
and odors.
   (W)   Each vehicle/carriage will be equipped with a slow moving vehicle
emblem required by §
74.12 and R.C. § 4513.11 to be attached to the rear of the vehicle.
   (X)   Sufficient reflective material must be placed along the shafts of the
vehicle/carriage, or other parts thereof, which normally parallel the body,
head, or legs of the horse pulling such vehicle/carriage.
   (Y)   A fully charged backup battery must be carried on each vehicle/
carriage during travel away from the base operation to meet emergency
situations due to failure of the primary battery. If there is no room on the
carriage for a backup battery, one must be readily available by the carriage
stands.
(Ord. 96-143, passed 8-19-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.06 HORSE CARRIAGE STANDS.
   The Village Council has established a horse drawn vehicle stand on the east
side of North Main Street at 10 North Main. Horse drawn vehicles shall be
restricted to a space 50 feet north of the intersection of North Street and
North Main Street.
(Ord. 96-143, passed 8-19-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.07 SOLICITING.
   No person is allowed to solicit business for a horse drawn vehicle. Drivers
shall remain on or immediately adjacent to the vehicle and can answer questions
when approached.
(Ord. 96-143, passed 8-19-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.08 UNLOADING OF PASSENGERS.
   Drivers will only load or unload passengers while parked on the stand.
Crosswalks may not be blocked in this area.
(Ord. 96-143, passed 8-19-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.09 CLEANING AND DEODORIZING.
   Drivers are responsible for keeping the stand clean and sanitized at all
times. Failure to comply will be cause for immediate closing of the stand.
(Ord. 96-143, passed 8-19-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.10 COPIES OF REGULATIONS TO BE MADE AVAILABLE.
   A copy of the regulations established in this chapter will be made available
to all employees of the licensee.
(Ord. 96-143, passed 8-19-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND CANVASSERS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Sales on public property prohibited
   
112.03   Registration and license
   
112.04   Sale on private property; restrictions
   
112.05   License revocation
   
112.06   Appeal procedure
   
112.07   Display of license
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANVASSER. Any person who obtains or seeks to obtain or influences the
opinion of the residents of the village, for purposes that are other than
religious or political in nature, by traveling door to door either by foot,
automobile, truck, or other type of conveyance upon the private residences,
including any house, apartment, or other dwelling in the village, and does not
obtain or seek to obtain funds for any cause whatsoever.
   PEDDLER. Any person not engaged in charitable activities, who travels either
by foot, automobile, truck, or any other type of conveyance from place to
place, door to door, or from street to street, taking or attempting to take
orders for profit by the sale of goods, wares, and merchandise or personal
property of any nature whatsoever for immediate or future delivery or for
services to be furnished or performed in the future.
   SOLICITOR. Any person not engaged in charitable activities who obtains or
seeks to obtain funds for any cause whatsoever by traveling door to door either
by foot, automobile, truck, or any type of conveyance upon the private
residences including any house apartment or other dwelling within the village.
(Ord. 2017-016, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 112.02 SALES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall on any public street, alley, drive, lane, thoroughfare,
court, highway, boulevard, or on the sidewalks thereof, solicit the sale of any
merchandise, wares, goods, foods, periodicals, or other articles of value for
present or future delivery unless it is conducted pursuant to and in accordance
with a special event permit issued under Chapter 94 of this code.
(Ord. 2017-016, passed 3-20-2017) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 REGISTRATION AND LICENSE.
   (A)   License or registration required. No peddler or solicitor shall peddle
or solicit the village, unless he or she is the holder of a valid license
issued pursuant to this chapter.
   (B) Application fee and license registration for peddlers and solicitors.
      (1)   Any person seeking a license in conformity with this chapter shall
obtain an application for same from the office of the Director of Public Safety
and shall submit the completed application, along with the appropriate fee, to
such office, on a form supplied by the Director which shall contain the
following information:
         (a)   Full name for applicant and each and every employee;
         (b)   Date of birth for applicant and each and every employee;
         (c)   Local address, if any;
         (d)   Permanent home address;
         (e)   A physical description of each person, setting forth age,
height, weight, color of hair and eyes, and sex;
         (f)   Social Security number;
         (g)   A description of the nature of the business and the goods,
wares, merchandise, property, and/or sendees to be sold;
         (h)   Telephone number;
         (i)   Number of employees;
         (j)   An indication of the streets to be solicited along with dates
and hours of solicitation for each respective street or area;
         (k)   Whether the applicant or any employee has ever been convicted of
a crime and, if so, where and the nature of the offense and the punishment or
penalty imposed therefor if any; and
         (l)   Such other information as the Director may require in order to
protect the public health safety and/or general welfare.
      (2)   (a)   All license applications shall be referred to the Director
who shall, within five days after receipt of the completed application, issue
licenses to the solicitors or peddlers unless he or she finds that:
            1.   The applicant has provided false, misleading, or deceptive
information in his or her application; and/or
            2.   The applicant or any solicitor or peddler named on the license
application has been convicted of a felony violation or misdemeanor violation
involving fraud or moral turpitude within the past five years.
         (b)   Any license issued under this chapter shall be valid for not
more than 90 days.
      (3)   Each applicant shall pay a non-refundable license application fee
as set forth in the village’s fee schedule, as adopted by reference in §
36.05, which fee shall be paid at the time the application is submitted. If the
application is approved, applicant:
         (a)   Shall remit to the Director of Public Safety, prior to
commencing activities as set forth in the village’s fee schedule, as adopted by
reference in §
36.05; and
         (b)   Shall obtain a photo identification license as provided for
herein and shall pay therefor the cost for each such photo identification
license as set forth in the village’s fee schedule, as adopted by reference in
§
36.05.
      (4)   Once issued, a license may be used only in conformity with the laws
of the village and the state, may not be assigned or transferred, must be
carried by the licensee at all times, and may be revoked or suspended by the
Director of Public Safety for any of the following causes:
         (a)   The licensee or person preparing the application on behalf of
the licensee provided false, misleading, or deceptive information in the
license application;
         (b)   The licensee is convicted of a felony or of a misdemeanor
involving fraud or moral turpitude; or
         (c)   The licensee violates any provision of this chapter or peddles
or solicits in an unlawful manner.
(Ord. 2017-016, passed 3-20-2017) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 SALE ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Restriction; hours; conduct. Every person to whom a license to peddle
or solicit, and every canvasser, shall be governed by the following rules and
regulations.
      (1)   No person subject to the provisions of this chapter shall peddle,
solicit, or canvass except between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. Monday
through Saturday; nor shall such person peddle, solicit, or canvass on Sunday
or any legal state or federal holiday.
      (2)   No peddler, solicitor, or canvasser shall enter or attempt to enter
a residence, house, apartment, or other dwelling in the village without an
express invitation from an adult occupant of the residence, house, apartment,
or other dwelling.
      (3)   No peddler or solicitor shall engage in any peddling or
solicitation other than that specified in the license application.
      (4)   No peddler, solicitor, or canvasser shall by any device make
unlawful noises, nor shall any peddler, solicitor, or canvasser remain at the
residence, house, apartment, or other dwelling in the village without the
consent of an adult occupant of the residence, house, apartment, or other
dwelling in the village.
   (B)   Resident prohibition by notice. Notwithstanding any other provision of
this chapter, no peddler, solicitor, or canvasser, while peddling, soliciting,
or canvassing, shall call upon, knock at the door, or ring the doorbell of any
residence, house, apartment, or other dwelling in the village upon which there
is posted at the entrance a notice which reads “No Peddlers, Solicitors, or
Canvassers on the Premises,” or other similar language, unless such peddler,
solicitor, or canvasser has previously been invited upon the premises by the
owner, lessee, or an adult occupant thereof.
(Ord. 2017-016, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 112.05 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   A license issued this by chapter shall be revoked by the Director of Public
Safety for any of the following causes:
   (A)   It is subsequently determined that the licensee provided false,
misleading, or deceptive information in completing the application form set
forth in §§
112.03, 112.04, or 112.05;
   (B)   The licensee is convicted of a felony or of a misdemeanor involving
moral turpitude; or
   (C)   The licensee is found to be in violation of any provision of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2017-016, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 112.06 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   If an application for a license is not approved or if any license issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter is revoked, written notice shall be
given to the applicant or licensee by personal service or by certified mail.
The applicant or licensee shall have the right to appeal such disapproval or
revocation to the Board of Zoning Appeals in accordance with provisions of §
153.043. The Board shall have the power to affirm, modify, or reverse the
decision of the Director. Any such decision made by the Board shall be final.
(Ord. 2017-016, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 112.07 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Any licensed peddler or solicitor shall at all times while soliciting or
peddling, display the license on the outside of his or her person in such a
manner so as to be clearly visible to residents. Upon request, the solicitor or
peddler shall present the license for further inspection to any resident,
police officer, or village official.
(Ord. 2017-016, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor of the
third degree. Whosoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined
not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 60 days, or both. Each day of a
continued violation of any provisions of this chapter shall constitute a
separate offense for purposes of this penalty provision.
(Ord. 2017-016, passed 3-20-2017)
CHAPTER 113: VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDERS
Section
   
113.01   Provider fee
§ 113.01 PROVIDER FEE.
   (A)   The village hereby imposes a 5% municipal video service provider fee
on the gross revenues, including advertising revenue, as defined in R.C. §
1332.32 of Amended Substitute Senate Bill No. 117, of only those video service
providers operating within the village pursuant to state video service
authorization, and to be effective upon the effective date of Amended
Substitute Senate Bill No. 117.
   (B)   The Village Manager and other appropriate officials of the village are
authorized to undertake whatever actions are necessary to implement the
provisions of this legislation.
   (C)   Any funds received by the Finance Director as a result of the fee
established by this legislation shall be deposited into the General Fund.
(Ord. 2008-004, passed 1-22-2008)
CHAPTER 114: SHORT-TERM RENTALS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Permit required
   
114.03   Application for short-term rental permit; new and renewal
   
114.04   Short-term rental host requirements
   
114.05   Grounds for denial
   
114.06   Revocation and suspension of short-term rental permit
   
114.07   Applicability of related taxes
   
114.08   Appeal of denial or revocation of permit
   
114.09   Transfer of short-term rental permit prohibited
   
114.10   Discrimination prohibited
   
114.11   Rules and regulations
   
114.12   Short-term rental permit display
   
114.13   Severability
   
114.14   Short-term rental policy
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING. Any building or structure which is occupied or intended for
occupancy in whole or in part as a home, residence, or sleeping place for one
or more persons.
   GUESTROOM. A room offered to the public for a fee that contains, at a
minimum, provisions for sleeping.
   HOSTING PLATFORM. A person or entity in whatever form or format that
facilitates, through advertising or any other means, a short-term rental
booking transaction for accommodations between a short-term rental host and
short-term rental guest, including, but not limited to, reservations and/or
collection of payment for such accommodations on behalf of the short-term
rental host. Examples include, but are not limited to, Airbnb, VRBO, and
HomeAway.
   OWNER. An individual(s), corporation, or partnership that has legal title to
and control of a dwelling.
   PRIMARY RESIDENCE. A residence that is the usual place of return for housing
as documented by at least two of the following: motor vehicle registration,
driver's license, tax documents, lease copy, or a utility bill.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL. Any room or dwelling that is rented wholly or partly for
a fee for less than 30 consecutive days by persons other than the owner from
which the owner receives monetary compensation, whether such compensation is
paid directly by the short-term rental guest or is collected and remitted to
the owner by a hosting platform. SHORT-TERM RENTAL does not include a room in
any hotel or motel, as defined elsewhere in the Codified Ordinances of the
Village of Waynesville.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL GUESTS. Persons renting temporary lodging from a short-
term rental host, or through a hosting platform on behalf of the short-term
rental host, for less than 30 consecutive days.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL HOST or HOST. The owner of a short-term rental or the
individuals that are leasing the property as their primary residence from the
owner, and who offers the short-term rental for temporary lodging for less than
30 consecutive days.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL OPERATION or OPERATION OF A SHORT-TERM RENTAL. The
occupancy for a fee of any room or dwelling in a short-term rental by a
transient guest.
   TRANSIENT GUESTS. Persons occupying a room or rooms for sleeping
accommodations for less than 30 consecutive days.
(Ord. 2021-020, passed 6-21-2021)
§ 114.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, including, but not limited to, an owner, operator, manager,
or employee shall engage in, conduct, or carry on, or permit to be engaged in,
conducted or carried on, in or upon any premises in the Village of Waynesville,
the operation of a short-term rental in a calendar year without obtaining a
permit in accordance with this chapter. It shall be prima facie evidence of a
short-term rental operation if a short-term rental guest is found to be
occupying or using a short-term rental or if a residence has been placed on any
hosting platform for short-term rental purposes.
   (B)   An application for a new short-term rental permit may be submitted at
any time to the Village Manager, or his/her designee. If the application is
approved and a permit is issued, the short-term rental permit shall take effect
on the day of issuance and shall expire on December 31 of the year in which the
permit was first issued.
   (C)   A permit to operate a short-term rental shall be renewed by the
applicant before the end of the year in which the permit was first issued. The
deadline for applying for a permit for renewal shall be the first Monday of
November of the year in which the permit is set to expire. Failure to renew
shall result in expiration of the short-term rental permit on December 31. If a
short-term rental permit is successfully and timely renewed, it shall be in
effect for one year, beginning on January 1 and expiring on December 31 of the
year it was issued.
   (D)   Bed and breakfast establishments lawfully operating within the
village, as defined by the Village of Waynesville Code, shall not be subject to
the requirements of this chapter provided that such establishments were in
operation prior to the effective date of Ord. 96-152 and have not ceased
operation for more than 90 consecutive days.
(Ord. 2021-020, passed 6-21-2021)
§ 114.03 APPLICATION FOR SHORT-TERM RENTAL PERMIT; NEW AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   An application for a short-term rental permit, and/or renewal of a
permit, shall be made to the Village Manager, or his/her designee, upon
approved forms, for an application processing fee of $100. The Village Council
shall have authority to amend the fee amount from time to time to reflect the
costs of administering this chapter.
   (B)   The application for a permit to operate a short-term rental shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   Name of the applicant, including mailing address, telephone number,
and email address. For an owner-occupied short-term rental application, the
permanent occupant shall provide sufficient information to demonstrate
compliance with the primary residency requirement as outlined in this chapter;
      (2)   The names of the legal owner or owners of the property, including
mailing address, telephone number, and email address;
      (3)   Sufficient information to demonstrate compliance with either the
permanent occupancy or ownership requirements defined and outlined in this
chapter;
      (4)   The names of all hosting platforms that are used by the short-term
rental host and proof of rental insurance for the unit rental;
      (5)   The names of all advertising outlets in which the short-term rental
host intends to advertise such rental if the short-term rental host is not
using a hosting platform;
      (6)   The maximum number of occupants that will be accommodated at the
short-term rental, not to exceed two adults and children per bedroom;
      (7)   The maximum number of motor vehicles that will be permitted to park
at the short-term rental shall be one vehicle per bedroom rented;
      (8)   An affidavit attesting that the short-term rental operation is in
compliance with all applicable local, state, and federal laws and regulations
concerning the provision of sleeping accommodations to transient guests,
including a certification that any short-term rental operation located outside
of the Neighborhood Commercial District shall be owner occupied during the term
of any short-term rental operations; and
      (9)   For short-term rentals within the Neighborhood Commercial District
(NC), the contact name and telephone number for the short-term rental host that
may be used 24 hours a day, seven days a week for any issues that may arise
related to the short-term rental unit or its transient guests.
   (C)   The applicant must notify the Village Manager, or his/her designee, of
any change in information contained in the permit application within ten days
of the change. Failure to do so may result in suspension of permit.
   (D)   Any change in ownership of the dwelling shall void the current short-
term rental permit and shall require submission and approval of a new short-
term rental permit application.
   (E)   A short-term rental shall be assigned an individual registration
account number that must be prominently posted with the unit on any hosting
platform(s) or in any other advertisement regarding the unit. Said valid
registration shall be displayed but removed upon expiration.
   (F)   If the owner or host is not able to be at the property for more than
24 hours, while it is being used as a short-term rental, the owner or host must
have a designated person on the premise to carry out their duties. If they do
not have a replacement person to carry out the terms of this chapter, they must
cancel any contracts they have for the rental of said unit during their
absence.
(Ord. 2021-020, passed 6-21-2021)
§ 114.04 SHORT-TERM RENTAL HOST REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Short-term rental host requirements. A short-term rental host shall be
the owner or host of the dwelling. The short-term rental owner or host must
provide: one form of proof of identity, and two pieces of evidence that the
dwelling is the owner's or host's primary residence or two pieces of evidence
that the host is the owner or lessee of the dwelling.
      (1)   One short-term rental permit per short-term rental operation may be
issued.
      (2)   The short-term rental host must provide written notice to the
short-term rental guest of:
         (a)    The short-term rental host shall provide proper trash and
recycling containers for the short-term rental guest(s); and
         (b)   The owner or host must post inside the dwelling what is and what
is not allowed to occur on the premises by the guests while renting.
      (3)   Smoke detectors shall be provided and maintained adjacent to each
sleeping area in each dwelling unit.
      (4)   One or more carbon monoxide detection devices shall be installed
and maintained as close to the center of the dwelling unit and within close
proximity to the living and sleeping areas of the dwelling unit.
      (5)   Occupancy shall be limited to two adults and children per bedroom
within the dwelling unit.
      (6)   Compliance with all other applicable provisions of the Village of
Waynesville Codified Ordinances related to residential housing.
      (7)   All short-term rental owners shall obtain liability insurance for
the short-term rental. Each short-term rental shall always maintain the
following insurance coverage meeting all of the following requirements: a
general liability insurance policy or certificate that shall provide the
following minimum coverage:
         (a)   Liability coverage of not less than $500,000. Such policy or
certificate must be issued by an insurance company that is admitted doing
business in the State of Ohio or by an eligible surplus lines company or risk
retention group;
         (b)   The policy or certificate shall provide notice of cancellation
of insurance to the Village Manager at least ten days prior to cancellation;
and
         (c)   Any cancellation of insurance required by this section shall
result in an automatic revocation of the respective short-term rental permit.
   (B)   Records required. Short-term rental hosts that offer short-term
rentals shall retain and, upon request, make available to the Village Manager,
or his/her designee, official records to demonstrate compliance with this
chapter, including, but not limited to, primary residency, the dates and
duration of each stay in the short-term rental, the maximum occupancy permitted
at the short-term rental, and the maximum number of motor vehicles permitted at
the short-term rental. A short-term rental host that provides rooms for short-
term rental use shall retain records for a period of at least four years.
   (C)   Signage. Owner must apply for a permit for a sign, unless no sign is
desired. No signs are permitted in residential districts.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as permitting any person to
obtain a permit or offer a short-term rental, where prohibited by any other
provision of law.
(Ord. 2021-020, passed 6-21-2021)
§ 114.05 GROUNDS FOR DENIAL.
   (A)   The Village Manager, or his/her designee, shall issue a new permit
upon application, or grant the renewal of an existing permit, except as
provided in divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   The Village Manager, or his/her designee, shall deny any application
for a new permit, or renewal of permit, if any of the following are shown to
have occurred at the short-term rental property:
      (1)   The applicant makes a material misrepresentation of fact on the
application for a short-term rental permit;
      (2)   The applicant or any owner of the short-term rental has been
convicted of violating any terms specified in this chapter;
      (3)   Any owner, applicant, operator, or manager of the short-term rental
is shown to have been convicted of the act of prostitution or soliciting for
prostitution, or an act that would constitute a violation of Ohio R.C. Chapters
2925 (Drug Offenses) or 3719 (Controlled Substances), in or on the premises of
the dwelling of the short-term rental in question, or any short-term rental in
which the owner has any interest in, including, but not limited to, ownership,
licensure, or management;
      (4)   The property taxes of the short-term rental owner are in arrears
with the Warren County Auditor's Office;
      (5)   The short-term rental owner is not in good standing with the
Village of Waynesville Income Tax Division; and/or
      (6)   The short-term rental has a documented history of repeated conduct
that endangers neighborhood safety or of conditions interfering with the use
and enjoyment of property within its vicinity.
   (C)   Evidence of conduct under division (B) above need only be that of de
facto violation of law; evidence of conviction is not a prerequisite for denial
unless specifically indicated.
(Ord. 2021-020, passed 6-21-2021)
§ 114.06 REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION OF SHORT-TERM RENTAL PERMIT.
   (A)   The Village Manager, or his/her designee, may revoke and/or suspend a
short-term rental permit if it is determined that the activities set forth
above are determined to have occurred at the short-term rental; or a short-term
rental unit is listed on a hosting platform or advertised elsewhere without the
registration number as required under § 114.03(E) or is perpetuating conditions
interfering with use and enjoyment of properties within its vicinity; or is
delinquent in filing or payment with the Village of Waynesville Income Tax
Division; or is engaging in conduct in violation of this chapter. Conditions
interfering with use and enjoyment of properties within the vicinity of a
short-term rental include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   The occurrence of any of the activities set forth in the village's
Codified Ordinances relating to noise disturbance, nuisance, drug offenses, or
disorderly conduct;
      (2)   Occupancy by a number of short-term rental users exceeding either:
(a) the maximum number included in the application for the short-term rental
permit; or (b) the maximum occupancy permitted pursuant to this chapter;
      (3)   Parking of a number of motor vehicles exceeding either: (a) the
maximum number included in the application for the short-term rental permit; or
(b) the maximum number of motor vehicles permitted at any short-term rental
pursuant to this chapter;
      (4)   Uninvited entry of short-term rental occupants upon private
property within 500 feet of the short-term rental;
      (5)   The owner or host must maintain the property, following the rules
and regulations listed in Chapter 154.
   (B)   A violation of any of the conditions in this chapter shall result in
progressive enforcement as follows, but not subject to be in this order,
depending on severity of violation.
      (1)   Upon the first violation, the short-term rental owner shall be
given a written warning of the violation (s) made.
      (2)   Upon the second violation, the permit for the short-term rental
shall be terminated and the short-term rental owner prohibited from re-applying
for a new permit for six months from the date of termination.
      (3)   Upon the third violation, the permit for the short-term rental
shall be terminated and the short-term rental owner prohibited from re-applying
for a new permit for one year from the date of termination.
(Ord. 2021-020, passed 6-21-2021)
§ 114.07 APPLICABILITY OF RELATED TAXES.
   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary or in conflict, the short-term
rental owner shall be subject to and responsible to pay the taxes imposed
pursuant to §§
36.21 and
38.23.
(Ord. 2021-020, passed 6-21-2021)
§ 114.08 APPEAL OF DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   In the event an applicant has been denied a permit, or if a permit has been
revoked or suspended, the party affected shall have the right to appeal to the
Village Manager from such denial, revocation, or suspension within ten business
days. Notice of appeal shall be filed with the Village Manager's office on a
form created by the Village Manager for such purpose, and the Village Manager
shall set the date and time of the appeal hearing. The burden of proof in such
an appeal shall be upon the appellant to show that the denial or revocation was
arbitrary or unreasonable.
(Ord. 2021-020, passed 6-21-2021)
§ 114.09 TRANSFER OF SHORT-TERM RENTAL PERMIT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No permit under this chapter shall be transferable to another short-
term rental operation.
   (B)   No permit under this chapter shall be transferable to another
individual, corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization, or other
group acting as a unit.
(Ord. 2021-020, passed 6-21-2021)
§ 114.10 DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED.
   A short-term rental host shall not:
   (A)   Decline a short-term rental guest based on race, sex, sexual
orientation, gender identity or expression, color, religion, ancestry, national
origin, age, disability, familial status, or military status;
   (B)   Impose any different terms or conditions based on race, sex, sexual
orientation, gender identity or expression, color, religion, ancestry, national
origin, age, disability, familial status, or military status;
   (C)   Post any listing or make any statement that discourages or indicates a
preference for or against any short-term rental guest on account of race, sex,
sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, color, religion, ancestry,
national origin, age, disability, familial status, or military status.
(Ord. 2021-020, passed 6-21-2021)
§ 114.11 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Village Manager may promulgate and enforce reasonable rules and
regulations to carry out the intent of this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-020, passed 6-21-2021)
§ 114.12 SHORT-TERM RENTAL PERMIT DISPLAY.
   The short-term rental host shall maintain the short-term rental permit and
prominently display it in the dwelling.
(Ord. 2021-020, passed 6-21-2021)
§ 114.13 SEVERABILITY.
   In the event any section or provision of this chapter shall be declared by a
court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unconstitutional, such
decision shall not affect the validity of this chapter as a whole or any part
thereof other than the part so declared to be invalid or unconstitutional.
(Ord. 2021-020, passed 6-21-2021)
§ 114.14 SHORT-TERM RENTAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an
unclassified misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Upon subsequent
convictions, the penalty shall be an unclassified misdemeanor, but the guilty
party shall be fined not more than $1,000, in addition to any other penalties
as imposed by this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-020, passed 6-21-2021)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
133.   SEX OFFENSES
      
134.   GAMBLING OFFENSES
      
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
137.   WEAPONS CONTROL
      
138.   DRUG OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Application of Title XIII
   
130.02   Definitions
   
130.03   Classification of offenses
   
130.04   Common law offenses abrogated
   
130.05   Rules of construction
   
130.06   Limitation of criminal prosecutions
   
130.07   Requirements for criminal liability; voluntary intoxication
   
130.08   Culpable mental states
   
130.09   Organizational criminal liability
   
130.10   Personal accountability for organizational conduct
   
130.11   Attempt
   
130.12   Complicity
   
130.13   Presumption of innocence; proof of offense; affirmative defense
   
130.14   Battered woman syndrome
   
130.15   Delinquency adjudications deemed convictions
   
130.16   Criminal law jurisdiction
   
130.17   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property held by Police
Department
   
130.18   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor
   
130.19   Multiple sentences
   
130.20   Apprehension, detention, or arrest of persons on bond
   
130.21   Self defense: limitations on duty to retreat prior to using force
 
   
130.99   Penalty for Title XIII
Statutory reference:
   Mayor’s Court generally, see R.C. Chapter 1905
   Municipal Court generally, see R.C. Chapter 1901
   Trials, Magistrate Courts, see R.C. Chapter 2938
§ 130.01 APPLICATION OF TITLE XIII.
   (A)   Title XIII of this code of ordinances embodies and prescribes
penalties for offenses against the municipality not classifiable in previous
titles and chapters. The word “misdemeanors”, as used in this title, is not
exhaustive and does not imply that offenses found elsewhere in this code of
ordinances are not also misdemeanors and punishable as such.
   (B)   Each act or omission for which a fine, imprisonment, or both is
provided under this Title or elsewhere in this code, or each act or omission
which is declared a violation of this code, is unlawful and is hereby made a
misdemeanor. Upon conviction, the penalty or penalties so provided shall be
imposed by the court.
§ 130.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRABAND. Any property that is illegal for a person to acquire or possess
under a statute, ordinance, or rule, or that a trier of fact lawfully
determines to be illegal to possess by reason of the property’s involvement in
an offense. The term includes but is not limited to all of the following:
      (1)   Any controlled substance, as defined in R.C. § 3719.01, or any
device or paraphernalia related thereto;
      (2)   Any unlawful gambling device or paraphernalia;
      (3)   Any dangerous ordnance or obscene material.
   DANGEROUS OFFENDER. A person who has committed an offense, whose history,
character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will be a
danger to others, and whose conduct has been characterized by a pattern of
repetitive, compulsive or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences.
   DEADLY FORCE. Any force that carries a substantial risk that it will
proximately result in the death of any person.
   FORCE. Any violence, compulsion, or constraint physically exerted by any
means upon or against a person or thing.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any of the following:
      (1)   A Sheriff, deputy sheriff, constable, police officer of a township
or joint police district, Marshal, deputy marshal, municipal police officer,
member of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under
R.C. § 3735.31(D) or state highway patrol trooper.
      (2)   An officer, agent, or employee of the state or any of its agencies,
instrumentalities, or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute, a duty to
conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and the
authority to arrest violators is conferred, within the limits of such statutory
duty and authority.
      (3)   The Mayor, in a capacity as chief conservator of the peace within
the municipality.
      (4)   A member of an auxiliary police force organized by the county,
township, or municipal law enforcement authorities, within the scope of the
member’s appointment or commission.
      (5)   A person lawfully called pursuant to R.C. § 311.07 to aid a sheriff
in keeping the peace, for the purposes and during the time when the person is
called.
      (6)   A person appointed by a Mayor pursuant to R.C. § 737.10 as a
special patrolling officer during a riot or emergency, for the purposes and
during the time when the person is appointed.
      (7)   A member of the organized militia of this state or the armed forces
of the United States, lawfully called to duty to aid civil authorities in
keeping the peace or protect against domestic violence.
      (8)   A prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, secret
service officer, or municipal prosecutor.
      (9)   A veterans’ home police officer appointed under R.C. § 5907.02.
      (10)   A member of a police force employed by a regional transit
authority under R.C. § 306.35(Y).
      (11)   A special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C. §
4582.04 or 4582.28.
      (12)   The House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms if the House of
Representatives Sergeant at Arms has arrest authority pursuant to R.C. §
101.311(E)(1) and an Assistant House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms.
      (13)   The Senate Sergeant at Arms and an Assistant Senate Sergeant at
Arms;
      (14)   A special police officer employed by a municipal corporation at a
municipal airport, or other municipal air navigation facility, that has
scheduled operations, as defined in 14 C.F.R. § 119.3, as amended, and that is
required to be under a security program and is governed by aviation security
rules of the Transportation Security Administration of the United States
Department of Transportation as provided in 49 C.F.R. parts 1542 and 1544, as
amended.
   NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF INSANITY. A person is “not guilty by reason of
insanity” relative to a charge of an offense only if the person proves, in the
manner specified in R.C. § 2901.05, that at the time of the commission of the
offense, he or she did not know, as a result of a severe mental disease or
defect, the wrongfulness of his or her acts.
   OFFENSE OF VIOLENCE.
      (1)   A violation of R.C. §§ 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.11,
2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.15, 2903.18, 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, 2905.01,
2905.02, 2905.11, 2905.32, 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.05, 2909.02, 2909.03,
2909.24, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2917.01, 2917.02, 2917.03, 2917.31,
2917.321, 2919.25, 2921.03, 2921.04, 2921.34, or 2923.161, of division (A)(1)
of R.C. § 2903.34, of division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of R.C. § 2911.12, or
of division (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3) or (B)(4) of R.C. § 2919.22, or felonious
sexual penetration in violation of former R.C. § 2907.12;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States, substantially equivalent to
any section, division or offense listed in division (a) of this definition;
      (3)   An offense, other than a traffic offense, under an existing or
former municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or of the United
States, committed purposely or knowingly, and involving physical harm to
persons or a risk of serious physical harm to persons;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (a), (b), or (c) of this definition;
      (5)   A violation of division (C) of R.C. § 959.131.
   PERSON.
      (1)   (a)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, as used in any
section contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, the term includes all of the following:
            1.   An individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association.
            2.   An unborn human who is viable.
         (b)   As used in any section contained in Title XIII of this code that
does not set forth a criminal offense, the term includes an individual,
corporation, business trust, estate, partnership and association.
         (c)   As used in division (1)(a)2. of this definition, “unborn human”
means an individual organism of the species Homo sapiens from fertilization
until live birth. “Viable” means the stage of development of a human fetus at
which there is a realistic probability of maintaining and nourishing of a life
outside the womb with or without temporary artificial life-sustaining support.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (1)(a) of this definition, in no case
shall the portion of the definition of the term “person” that is set forth in
division (1)(a)2. of this definition be applied or construed in any section
contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal offense in any
of the following manners:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (2)(a) of this
definition, in a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as
prohibiting any pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion
with the consent of the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman
implied by law in a medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise
authorized by law to consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant
woman. An abortion that violates the conditions described in the immediately
preceding sentence may be punished as a violation of R.C. §§ 2903.01, 2903.02,
2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13,
2903.14, 2903.21 or 2903.22, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, as applicable. An abortion that does not violate the conditions
described in the second immediately preceding sentence but that does violate
R.C. §§ 2919.12, 2919.13(B), 2919.15, 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of
such section, as applicable. Consent is sufficient under this division if it is
of the type otherwise adequate to permit medical treatment to the pregnant
woman, even if it does not comply with R.C. § 2919.12.
         (b)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
            1.   Her delivery of a stillborn baby;
            2.   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying;
            3.   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human;
            4.   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human;
            5.   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any injury, illness, or other physiological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any tangible or intangible damage to property
that, in any degree, results in loss to its value or interferes with its use or
enjoyment. The term does not include wear and tear occasioned by normal use.
   PRIVILEGE. An immunity, license, or right conferred by law, or bestowed by
express or implied grant, or arising out of status, position, office, or
relationship, or growing out of necessity.
   PROPERTY.
      (1)   Any property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, and any
interest or license in that property. The term includes but is not limited to
cable television service, other telecommunications service, telecommunications
devices, information service, computers, data, computer software, financial
instruments associated with computers, other documents associated with
computers, or copies of the documents, whether in machine or human-readable
form, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents, and property protected by
a trademark, copyright or patent. “Financial instruments associated with
computers” include but are not limited to checks, drafts, warrants, money
orders, notes of indebtedness, certificates of deposit, letters of credit,
bills of credit or debit cards, financial transaction authorization mechanisms,
marketable securities, or any computer system representations of any of them.
      (2)   As used in this definition, “trade secret” has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 1333.61, and “telecommunications service” and “information service”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (3)   As used in this definition and in the definition of “contraband” in
this section, “cable television service,” “computer,” “computer network,”
“computer software,” “computer system,” “data,” and “telecommunications device”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   REPEAT OFFENDER. A person who has a history of persistent criminal activity
and whose character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will
commit another offense. It is prima facie evidence that a person is a repeat
offender if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Having been convicted of one or more offenses of violence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent offense of
violence;
      (2)   Having been convicted of one or more sexually oriented offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2950.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent sexually oriented
offense;
      (3)   Having been convicted of one or more theft offenses, as defined in
R.C. § 2913.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for one or more
of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent theft offense;
      (4)   Having been convicted of one or more felony drug abuse offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2925.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent felony drug abuse
offense;
      (5)   Having been convicted of two or more felonies, and having been
imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such offense, he or she commits a
subsequent offense;
      (6)   Having been convicted of three or more offenses of any type or
degree other than traffic offenses, alcoholic intoxication offenses, or minor
misdemeanors, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such
offense, he or she commits a subsequent offense.
   RISK. A significant possibility, as contrasted with a remote possibility,
that a certain result may occur or that certain circumstances may exist.
   SCHOOL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL ACTIVITY. Any activity held under the auspices of a board of
education of a city, local, exempted village, joint vocational, or cooperative
education school district; a governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; a governing board of an educational
service center; or the governing body of a nonpublic school for which the
Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum standards under R.C. §
3301.07.
   SCHOOL BUILDING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SCHOOL PREMISES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL SAFETY ZONE. Consists of a school, school building, school premises,
school activity, and school bus.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any mental illness or condition of such gravity as would normally
require hospitalization or prolonged psychiatric treatment;
      (2)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
      (3)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent incapacity, whether
partial or total, or that involves some temporary, substantial incapacity;
      (4)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent disfigurement, or
that involves some temporary, serious disfigurement;
      (5)   Any physical harm that involves acute pain of such duration as to
result in substantial suffering, or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any physical harm to property that does
either of the following:
      (1)   Results in substantial loss to the value of the property, or
requires a substantial amount of time, effort, or money to repair or replace;
      (2)   Temporarily prevents the use or enjoyment of the property, or
substantially interferes with its use or enjoyment for an extended period of
time.
   SUBSTANTIAL RISK. A strong possibility, as contrasted with a remote or
significant possibility, that a certain result may occur or that certain
circumstances may exist.
(R.C. §§ 2901.01, 2935.36(E))
§ 130.03 CLASSIFICATION OF OFFENSES.
   As used in this Title:
   (A)   Offenses include misdemeanors of the first, second, third, and fourth
degree, minor misdemeanors, and offenses not specifically classified.
   (B)   Regardless of the penalty that may be imposed, any offense
specifically classified as a misdemeanor is a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any offense not specifically classified is a misdemeanor if
imprisonment for not more than one year may be imposed as a penalty.
   (D)   Any offense not specifically classified is a minor misdemeanor if the
only penalty that may be imposed is one of the following:
      (1)   For an offense committed prior to January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $100;
      (2)   For an offense committed on or after January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $150, community service under R.C. § 2929.27(D), or a financial
sanction other than a fine under R.C. § 2929.28.
(R.C. § 2901.02)
§ 130.04 COMMON LAW OFFENSES ABROGATED.
   (A)   No conduct constitutes a criminal offense against the municipality
unless it is defined as an offense in this code.
   (B)   An offense is defined when one or more sections of this code state a
positive prohibition or enjoin a specific duty, and provide a penalty for
violation of such prohibition or failure to meet such duty.
   (C)   This section does not affect the power of a court to punish for
contempt or to employ any sanction authorized by law to enforce an order, civil
judgment or decree.
(R.C. § 2901.03)
§ 130.05 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) or (D) of this section,
sections of this code defining offenses or penalties shall be strictly
construed against the municipality and liberally construed in favor of the
accused.
   (B)   Rules of criminal procedure and sections of this code providing for
criminal procedure shall be construed so as to effect the fair, impartial,
speedy, and sure administration of justice.
   (C)   Any provision of a section of this code that refers to a previous
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of a section of this code, the
Ohio Revised Code or a division of a section of this code or the Ohio Revised
Code shall be construed to also refer to a previous conviction of or plea of
guilty to a substantially equivalent offense under an existing or former law of
this municipality, state, another state, or the United States or under an
existing or former municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Any provision of this code that refers to a section, or to a division
of a section, of this code that defines or specifies a criminal offense shall
be construed to also refer to an existing or former law of this state, another
state, or the United States, to an existing or former municipal ordinance, or
to an existing or former division of any such existing or former law or
ordinance that defines or specifies, or that defined or specified, a
substantially equivalent offense.
(R.C. § 2901.04)
§ 130.06 LIMITATION OF CRIMINAL PROSECUTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5)
of this section or as otherwise provided in this section, a prosecution shall
be barred unless it is commenced within the following periods after an offense
is committed:
         (a)   For a felony, six years;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor other than a minor misdemeanor, two years;
         (c)   For a minor misdemeanor, six months.
      (2)   There is no period of limitation for the prosecution of a violation
of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 or for the prosecution of a conspiracy to
commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in committing a violation of R.C. §
2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (B) through (J) of this
section, a prosecution of any of the following offenses shall be barred unless
it is commenced within 20 years after the offense is committed:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. §§ 2903.03, 2903.04, 2905.01, 2905.32,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.21, 2909.02, 2909.22, 2909.23, 2909.24, 2909.26,
2909.27, 2909.28, 2909.29, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, or 2917.02, a
violation of R.C. §§ 2903.11 or 2903.12 if the victim is a peace officer, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 that is a felony, or a violation of former R.C. §
2907.12.
         (b)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing a violation set forth in division (A)(3)(a) of this section.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (D) to (L) of this
section, a prosecution of a violation of R.C. §§ 2907.02 or 2907.03 or a
conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in committing a
violation of either section shall be barred unless it is commenced within 25
years after the offense is committed.
      (5)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (A)(5)(b) and (E)
to (I) of this section, a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2907.13 shall be
barred unless it is commenced within five years after the offense is committed.
         (b)   Prosecution that would otherwise be barred under division (A)(5)
(a) of this section may be commenced within five years after the date of the
discovery of the offense by either an aggrieved person or the aggrieved
person's legal representative who is not a party to the offense.
         (c)   As used in division (A)(5)(b) of this section, "aggrieved
person" includes any of the following individuals with regard to a violation of
R.C. § 2907.13:
            1.   A patient who was the victim of the violation;
            2.   The spouse or surviving spouse of a patient who was the victim
of the violation;
            3.   Any child born as a result of the violation.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) of this section,
if the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this
section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for an offense of which an
element is fraud or breach of fiduciary duty within one year after discovery of
the offense either by an aggrieved person or by the aggrieved person’s legal
representative who is not a party to the offense.
      (2)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3)
of this section has expired, prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2913.49
shall be commenced within five years after discovery of the offense either by
an aggrieved person or the aggrieved person’s legal representative who is not a
party to the offense.
   (C)   (1)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)
(3) of this section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for the
following offenses during the following specified periods of time:
         (a)   For an offense involving misconduct in office by a public
servant at any time while the accused remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter;
         (b)   For an offense by a person who is not a public servant but whose
offense is directly related to the misconduct in office of a public servant, at
any time while that public servant remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter.
      (2)   As used in this division:
         OFFENSE IS DIRECTLY RELATED TO THE MISCONDUCT IN OFFICE OF A PUBLIC
SERVANT. The phrase includes but is not limited to a violation of R.C. §§
101.71, 101.91, 121.61 or 2921.13, 102.03(F) or (H), 2921.02(A), 2921.43(A) or
(B), or 3517.13(F) or (G), that is directly related to an offense involving
misconduct in office of a public servant, or a violation of any municipal
ordinance substantially equivalent to those Ohio Revised Code sections listed
in this division (C)(2).
         PUBLIC SERVANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
   (D)   (1)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal
investigation of the commission of a violation of R.C. §§ 2907.02 or 2907.03 is
determined to match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if
the time of the determination is later than 25 years after the offense is
committed, prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be
commenced within five years after the determination is complete.
      (2)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal investigation
of the commission of a violation of R.C. §§ 2907.02 or 2907.03 is determined to
match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if the time of
the determination is within 25 years after the offense is committed,
prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be commenced
within the longer of 25 years after the offense is committed or five years
after the determination is complete.
      (3)   As used in this division, DNA RECORD has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 109.573.
   (E)   An offense is committed when every element of the offense occurs. In
the case of an offense of which an element is a continuing course of conduct,
the period of limitation does not begin to run until such course of conduct or
the accused’s accountability for it terminates, whichever occurs first.
   (F)   A prosecution is commenced on the date an indictment is returned or an
information filed, or on the date a lawful arrest without a warrant is made, or
on the date a warrant, summons, citation, or other process is issued, whichever
occurs first. A prosecution is not commenced by the return of an indictment or
the filing of an information unless reasonable diligence is exercised to issue
and execute process on the same. A prosecution is not commenced upon issuance
of a warrant, summons, citation, or other process unless reasonable diligence
is exercised to execute the same.
   (G)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the corpus
delicti remains undiscovered.
   (H)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the
accused purposely avoids prosecution. Proof that the accused departed this
municipality or conceals the accused’s identity or whereabouts is prima facie
evidence of the accused’s purpose to avoid prosecution.
   (I)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time a prosecution
against the accused based on the same conduct is pending in this state, even
though the indictment, information, or process that commenced the prosecution
is quashed or the proceedings on the indictment, information, or process are
set aside or reversed on appeal.
   (J)   The period of limitation for a violation of this Title XIII or Title
XXIX of the Ohio Revised Code that involves a physical or mental wound, injury,
disability, or condition of a nature that reasonably indicates abuse or neglect
of a child under 18 years of age or of a child with a developmental disability
or physical impairment under 21 years of age shall not begin to run until
either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The victim of the offense reaches the age of majority.
      (2)   A public children services agency, or a municipal or county peace
officer that is not the parent or guardian of the child, in the county in which
the child resides or in which the abuse or neglect is occurring or has occurred
has been notified that abuse or neglect is known, suspected, or believed to
have occurred.
   (K)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2935.01.
   (L)   (1)   The amendments to divisions (A) and (D) of this section that
took effect on July 16, 2015, apply to a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03
committed on and after July 16, 2015, and apply to a violation of either of
those sections committed prior to July 16, 2015, if prosecution for that
violation was not barred under this section as it existed on July 16, 2015.
      (2)   The amendment to division (A)(2) of this section that took effect
on April 4, 2023, applies to a conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or
complicity in committing a violation of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 if the
conspiracy, attempt, or complicity is committed on or after April 4, 2023, and
applies to a conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing a violation of either of those sections if the conspiracy, attempt,
or complicity was committed prior to April 4, 2023, and prosecution for that
conspiracy, attempt, or complicity was not barred under this section as it
existed on the day prior to April 4, 2023.
(R.C. § 2901.13)
Statutory reference:
   Limitation for income tax violations, see R.C. § 718.12
§ 130.07 REQUIREMENTS FOR CRIMINAL LIABILITY; VOLUNTARY INTOXICATION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, a person is not
guilty of an offense unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person’s liability is based on conduct that includes either a
voluntary act, or an omission to perform an act or duty that the person is
capable of performing;
      (2)   The person has the requisite degree of culpability for each element
as to which a culpable mental state is specified by the language defining the
offense.
   (B)   When the language defining an offense does not specify any degree of
culpability, and plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict criminal
liability for the conduct described in the section, then culpability is not
required for a person to be guilty of the offense. The fact that one division
of a section plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict liability for an
offense defined in that division does not by itself plainly indicate a purpose
to impose strict criminal liability for an offense defined in other divisions
of the section that do not specify a degree of culpability.
   (C)   (1)   When language defining an element of an offense that is related
to knowledge or intent or to which mens rea could fairly be applied neither
specifies culpability nor plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict
liability, the element of the offense is established only if a person acts
recklessly.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to offenses defined
in R.C. Title 45.
      (3)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not relieve the prosecution of
the burden of proving the culpable mental state required by any definition
incorporated into the offense.
   (D)   Voluntary intoxication may not be taken into consideration in
determining the existence of a mental state that is an element of a criminal
offense. Voluntary intoxication does not relieve a person of a duty to act if
failure to act constitutes a criminal offense. Evidence that a person was
voluntarily intoxicated may be admissible to show whether or not the person was
physically capable of performing the act with which the person is charged.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      CULPABILITY. Means purpose, knowledge, recklessness, or negligence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.22.
      INTOXICATION. Includes but is not limited to intoxication resulting from
the ingestion of alcohol, a drug, or alcohol and a drug.
      INVOLUNTARY ACTS. Means reflexes, convulsions, body movements during
unconsciousness or sleep, and body movements that are not otherwise a product
of the actor’s volition are involuntary acts.
      POSSESSION. Means a voluntary act if the possessor knowingly procured or
received the thing possessed, or was aware of the possessor’s control of the
thing possessed for a sufficient time to have ended possession.
(R.C. § 2901.21)
§ 130.08 CULPABLE MENTAL STATES.
   (A)   A person acts purposely when it is the person’s specific intention to
cause a certain result, or, when the gist of the offense is a prohibition
against conduct of a certain nature, regardless of what the offender intends to
accomplish thereby, it is the offender’s specific intention to engage in
conduct of that nature.
   (B)   (1)   A person acts knowingly, regardless of purpose, when the person
is aware that the person’s conduct will probably cause a certain result or will
probably be of a certain nature. A person has knowledge of circumstances when
the person is aware that such circumstances probably exist.
      (2)   When knowledge of the existence of a particular fact is an element
of an offense, such knowledge is established if a person subjectively believes
that there is a high probability of its existence and fails to make inquiry or
acts with a conscious purpose to avoid learning the fact.
   (C)   (1)   A person acts recklessly when, with heedless indifference to the
consequences, the person disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that
the person’s conduct is likely to cause a certain result or is likely to be of
a certain nature.
      (2)   A person is reckless with respect to circumstances when, with
heedless indifference to the consequences, the person disregards a substantial
and unjustifiable risk that such circumstances are likely to exist.
   (D)   A person acts negligently when, because of a substantial lapse from
due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that the person’s
conduct may cause a certain result or may be of a certain nature. A person is
negligent with respect to circumstances when, because of a substantial lapse
from due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that such
circumstances may exist.
   (E)   (1)   When the section defining an offense provides that negligence
suffices to establish an element thereof, then recklessness, knowledge, or
purpose is also sufficient culpability for such element.
      (2)   When recklessness suffices to establish an element of an offense,
then knowledge or purpose is also sufficient culpability for such element.
      (3)   When knowledge suffices to establish an element of an offense, then
purpose is also sufficient culpability for such element.
(R.C. § 2901.22)
§ 130.09 ORGANIZATIONAL CRIMINAL LIABILITY.
   (A)   An organization may be convicted of an offense under any of the
following circumstances:
      (1)   The offense is a minor misdemeanor committed by an officer, agent,
or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s office or employment, except that if the
section defining the offense designates the officers, agents, or employees for
whose conduct the organization is accountable or the circumstances under which
it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (2)   A purpose to impose organizational liability plainly appears in the
section defining the offense, and the offense is committed by an officer,
agent, or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the
scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s office or employment, except
that if the section defining the offense designates the officers, agents, or
employees for whose conduct the organization is accountable or the
circumstances under which it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (3)   The offense consists of an omission to discharge a specific duty
imposed by law on the organization.
      (4)   If, acting with the kind of culpability otherwise required for the
commission of the offense, its commission was authorized, requested, commanded,
tolerated, or performed by the board of directors, trustees, partners, or by a
high managerial officer, agent, or employee acting in behalf of the
organization and within the scope of such a board’s or person’s office or
employment.
   (B)   If strict liability is imposed for the commission of an offense, a
purpose to impose organizational liability shall be presumed, unless the
contrary plainly appears.
   (C)   In a prosecution of an organization for an offense other than one for
which strict liability is imposed, it is a defense that the high managerial
officer, agent, or employee having supervisory responsibility over the subject
matter of the offense exercised due diligence to prevent its commission. This
defense is not available if it plainly appears inconsistent with the purpose of
the section defining the offense.
   (D)   As used in this section, ORGANIZATION means a corporation for profit
or not for profit, partnership, limited partnership, joint venture,
unincorporated nonprofit association, estate, trust, or other commercial or
legal entity. The term does not include an entity organized as or by a
governmental agency for the execution of a governmental program.
(R.C. § 2901.23)
§ 130.10 PERSONAL ACCOUNTABILITY FOR ORGANIZATIONAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   An officer, agent, or employee of an organization, as defined in R.C.
§ 2901.23, may be prosecuted for an offense committed by such organization, if
he or she acts with the kind of culpability required for the commission of the
offense, and any of the following apply:
      (1)   In the name of the organization or in its behalf, he or she engages
in conduct constituting the offense, or causes another to engage in such
conduct, or tolerates such conduct when it is of a type for which he or she has
direct responsibility;
      (2)   He or she has primary responsibility to discharge a duty imposed on
the organization by law, and such duty is not discharged.
   (B)   When a person is convicted of an offense by reason of this section, he
or she is subject to the same penalty as if he or she had acted in his or her
own behalf.
(R.C. § 2901.24)
§ 130.11 ATTEMPT.
   (A)   No person, purposely or knowingly, and when purpose or knowledge is
sufficient culpability for the commission of an offense, shall engage in
conduct that, if successful, would constitute or result in the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that, in retrospect,
commission of the offense that was the object of the attempt was either
factually or legally impossible under the attendant circumstances, if that
offense could have been committed had the attendant circumstances been as the
actor believed them to be.
   (C)   No person who is convicted of committing a specific offense, of
complicity in the commission of an offense, or of conspiracy to commit an
offense, shall be convicted of an attempt to commit the same offense in
violation of this section.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor abandoned his or her effort to commit the offense or otherwise prevented
its commission, under circumstances manifesting a complete and voluntary
renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an attempt to commit an
offense. An attempt to commit aggravated murder, murder, or an offense for
which the maximum penalty is imprisonment for life is a felony of the first
degree, to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to commit a
drug abuse offense for which the penalty is determined by the amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance involved in the drug abuse offense is
an offense of the same degree as the drug abuse offense attempted would be if
that drug abuse offense had been committed and had involved an amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance that is within the next lower range
of controlled substance amounts than was involved in the attempt. An attempt to
commit any other offense is an offense of the next lesser degree than the
offense attempted. In the case of an attempt to commit an offense other than a
violation of R.C. Chapter 3734 that is not specifically classified, an attempt
is a misdemeanor of the first degree if the offense attempted is a felony, and
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the offense attempted is a misdemeanor.
In the case of an attempt to commit a violation of any provision of R.C.
Chapter 3734, other than R.C. § 3734.18, that relates to hazardous wastes, an
attempt is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to
commit a minor misdemeanor, or to engage in conspiracy, is not an offense under
this section.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 2923.02)
Statutory reference:
   Conspiracy, see R.C. § 2923.01
   Solid and hazardous wastes, see R.C. Chapter 3734
§ 130.12 COMPLICITY.
   (A)   No person, acting with the kind of culpability required for the
commission of an offense, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Solicit or procure another to commit the offense;
      (2)   Aid or abet another in committing the offense;
      (3)   Conspire with another to commit the offense in violation of R.C. §
2923.01;
      (4)   Cause an innocent or irresponsible person to commit the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that no person with
whom the accused was in complicity has been convicted as a principal offender.
   (C)   No person shall be convicted of complicity under this section unless
an offense is actually committed, but a person may be convicted of complicity
in an attempt to commit an offense in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   If an alleged accomplice of the defendant testifies against the
defendant in a case in which the defendant is charged with complicity in the
commission of or an attempt to commit an offense, an attempt to commit an
offense, or an offense, the court shall charge the jury in accordance with R.C.
§ 2923.03(D).
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that,
prior to the commission of or attempt to commit the offense, the actor
terminated his or her complicity, under circumstances manifesting a complete
and voluntary renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of complicity in the
commission of an offense, and shall be prosecuted and punished as if he or she
were a principal offender. A charge of complicity may be stated in terms of
this section, or in terms of the principal offense.
(R.C. § 2923.03)
Statutory reference:
   Conspiracy, see R.C. § 2923.01
§ 130.13 PRESUMPTION OF INNOCENCE; PROOF OF OFFENSE; AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE.
   (A)   Every person accused of an offense is presumed innocent until proven
guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, and the burden of proof for all elements of
the offense is upon the prosecution. The burden of going forward with the
evidence of an affirmative defense, and the burden of proof by a preponderance
of the evidence, for an affirmative defense other than self-defense, defense of
another, or defense of the accused’s residence presented as described in
division (B)(1) of this section, is upon the accused.
   (B)   (1)   A person is allowed to act in self-defense, defense of another,
or defense of that person’s residence. If, at the trial of a person who is
accused of an offense that involved the person’s use of force against another,
there is evidence presented that tends to support that the accused person used
the force in self-defense, defense of another, or defense of that person’s
residence, the prosecution must prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the
accused person did not use the force in self-defense, defense of another, or
defense of that person’s residence, as the case may be.
      (2)   Subject to division (B)(3) of this section, a person is presumed to
have acted in self- defense or defense of another when using defensive force
that is intended or likely to cause death or great bodily harm to another if
the person against whom the defensive force is used is in the process of
unlawfully and without privilege to do so entering, or has unlawfully and
without privilege to do so entered, the residence or vehicle occupied by the
person using the defensive force.
      (3)   The presumption set forth in division (B)(2) of this section does
not apply if either of the following is true:
         (a)   The person against whom the defensive force is used has a right
to be in, or is a lawful resident of, the residence or vehicle.
         (b)   The person who uses the defensive force uses it while in a
residence or vehicle and the person is unlawfully, and without privilege to be,
in that residence or vehicle.
      (4)   The presumption set forth in division (B)(2) of this section is a
rebuttable presumption and may be rebutted by a preponderance of the evidence,
provided that the prosecution’s burden of proof remains proof beyond a
reasonable doubt as described in divisions (A) and (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   As part of its charge to the jury in a criminal case, the court shall
read the definitions of “reasonable doubt” and “proof beyond a reasonable
doubt”, contained in division (E) of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE. An affirmative defense is either of the following:
         (a)   A defense expressly designated as affirmative;
         (b)   A defense involving an excuse or justification peculiarly within
the knowledge of the accused, on which the accused can fairly be required to
adduce supporting evidence.
      DWELLING. Means a building or conveyance of any kind that has a roof over
it and that is designed to be occupied by people lodging in the building or
conveyance at night, regardless of whether the building or conveyance is
temporary or permanent or is mobile or immobile. As used in this division, a
building or conveyance includes but is not limited to an attached porch, and a
building or conveyance with a roof over it includes but is not limited to a
tent.
      RESIDENCE. Means a dwelling in which a person resides either temporarily
or permanently or is visiting as a guest.
      VEHICLE. Means a conveyance of any kind, whether or not motorized, that
is designed to transport people or property.
   (E)   “Reasonable doubt” is present when the jurors, after they have
carefully considered and compared all the evidence, cannot say they are firmly
convinced of the truth of the charge. It is a doubt based on reasonable and
common sense. Reasonable doubt is not mere possible doubt, because everything
relating to human affairs or depending on moral evidence is open to some
possible or imaginary doubt. “Proof beyond a reasonable doubt” is proof of such
character that an ordinary person would be willing to rely and act upon it in
the most important of the person's own affairs.
(R.C. § 2901.05)
§ 130.14 BATTERED WOMAN SYNDROME.
   (A)   The municipality hereby declares that it recognizes both of the
following, in relation to the “battered woman syndrome”: that the syndrome
currently is a matter of commonly accepted scientific knowledge, and that the
subject matter and details of the syndrome are not within the general
understanding or experience of a person who is a member of the general populace
and are not within the field of common knowledge.
   (B)   If a person is charged with an offense involving the use of force
against another and the person, as a defense to the offense charged, raises the
affirmative defense of self defense, the person may introduce expert testimony
of the “battered woman syndrome” and expert testimony that the person suffered
from that syndrome as evidence to establish the requisite belief of an imminent
danger of death or great bodily harm that is necessary, as an element of the
affirmative defense, to justify the person’s use of force in question. The
introduction of any expert testimony under this division shall be in accordance
with the Ohio Rules of Evidence.
(R.C. § 2901.06)
§ 130.15 DELINQUENCY ADJUDICATIONS DEEMED CONVICTIONS.
   (A)   If a person is alleged to have committed an offense and if the person
previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or juvenile traffic offender
for a violation of a law or ordinance, except as provided in division (B) of
this section, the adjudication as a delinquent child or as a juvenile traffic
offender is a conviction for a violation of the law for purposes of determining
the offense with which the person should be charged and, if the person is
convicted of or pleads guilty to an offense, the sentence to be imposed upon
the person relative to the conviction or guilty plea.
   (B)   A previous adjudication of a person as a delinquent child or juvenile
traffic offender for a violation of a law or ordinance is not a conviction for
a violation of the law or ordinance for purposes of determining any of the
following:
      (1)   Whether the person is a repeat violent offender, as defined in R.C.
§ 2929.01, or whether the person should be sentenced as a repeat violent
offender under R.C. §§ 2929.14(B)(2) and 2941.149;
      (2)    Whether the person is a violent career criminal as defined in R.C.
§ 2923.132, whether the person has committed unlawful use of a weapon by a
violent career criminal in violation of R.C. § 2923.132 or should be sentenced
for that offense under that section, or whether the person should be sentenced
under R.C. § 2929.14(K) as a violent career criminal who had a firearm on or
about the person’s person or under the person’s control while committing a
violent felony offense and displayed or brandished the firearm, indicated that
the offender possessed a firearm, or used the firearm to facilitate the
offense.
(R.C. § 2901.08)
§ 130.16 CRIMINAL LAW JURISDICTION.
   (A)   A person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality if any of the following occur:
      (1)   The person commits an offense under the laws of this municipality,
any element of which takes place in this municipality;
      (2)   While in this municipality, the person attempts to commit, or is
guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in another jurisdiction,
which offense is an offense under both the laws of this municipality and the
other jurisdiction, or, while in this municipality, the person conspires to
commit an offense in another jurisdiction, which offense is an offense under
both the laws of this municipality and the other jurisdiction, and a
substantial overt act in furtherance of the conspiracy is undertaken in this
municipality by the person or another person involved in the conspiracy,
subsequent to the person’s entrance into the conspiracy. In any case in which a
person attempts to commit, is guilty of complicity in the commission of, or
conspires to commit an offense in another jurisdiction as described in this
division, the person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality for the attempt, complicity, or conspiracy, and for any resulting
offense that is committed or completed in the other jurisdiction;
      (3)   While out of this municipality, the person conspires or attempts to
commit, or is guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in this
municipality;
      (4)   While out of this municipality, the person omits to perform a legal
duty imposed by the laws of this municipality, which omission affects a
legitimate interest of the municipality in protecting, governing or regulating
any person, property, thing, transaction, or activity in this municipality;
      (5)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
retains property and subsequently brings any of the unlawfully taken or
retained property into this municipality;
      (6)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
entices another person and subsequently brings the other person into this
municipality;
      (7)   The person, by means of a computer, computer system, computer
network, telecommunication, telecommunications device, telecommunications
service, or information service, causes or knowingly permits any writing, data,
image or other telecommunication to be disseminated or transmitted into this
municipality in violation of the law of this state or municipality.
   (B)   In homicide, the element referred to in division (A)(1) of this
section includes the act that causes death, the physical contact that causes
death, the death itself, or any other element that is set forth in the offense
in question. If any part of the body of a homicide victim is found in this
municipality, the death is presumed to have occurred within this municipality.
   (C)   (1)   This municipality includes the land and water within its
boundaries and the air space above that land and water, with respect to which
this municipality has either exclusive or concurrent legislative jurisdiction.
Where the boundary between this municipality and another jurisdiction is
disputed, the disputed territory is conclusively presumed to be within this
municipality for purposes of this section.
      (2)   (a)   The courts of common pleas of Adams, Athens, Belmont, Brown,
Clermont, Columbiana, Gallia, Hamilton, Jefferson, Lawrence, Meigs, Monroe,
Scioto, and Washington counties have jurisdiction beyond the north or northwest
shore of the Ohio River extending to the opposite shore line, between the
extended boundary lines of any adjacent counties or adjacent state.
         (b)   Each of those courts of common pleas has concurrent jurisdiction
on the Ohio River with any adjacent court of common pleas that borders on that
river and with any court of Kentucky or of West Virginia that borders on the
Ohio River and that has jurisdiction on the Ohio River under the law of
Kentucky or the law of West Virginia, whichever is applicable, or under federal
law.
   (D)   When an offense is committed under the laws of this municipality, and
it appears beyond a reasonable doubt that the offense or any element of the
offense took place either in this municipality or in another jurisdiction or
jurisdictions, but it cannot reasonably be determined in which it took place,
the offense or element is conclusively presumed to have taken place in this
municipality for purposes of this section.
   (E)   When a person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in
this municipality for an offense committed or completed outside this
municipality, the person is subject to all specifications for that offense that
would be applicable if the offense had been committed within this municipality.
   (F)   Any act, conduct, or element that is a basis of a person being subject
under this section to criminal prosecution and punishment in this municipality
need not be committed personally by the person as long as it is committed by
another person who is in complicity or conspiracy with the person.
   (G)   This section shall be liberally construed, consistent with
constitutional limitations, to allow this municipality the broadest possible
jurisdiction over offenses and persons committing offenses in, or affecting,
this municipality.
   (H)   For purposes of division (A)(2) of this section, an overt act is
substantial when it is of a character that manifests a purpose on the part of
the actor that the object of the conspiracy should be completed.
   (I)   As used in this section, COMPUTER, COMPUTER SYSTEM, COMPUTER NETWORK,
INFORMATION SERVICE, TELECOMMUNICATION, TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE,
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE, DATA and WRITING have the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 2913.01.
(R.C. § 2901.11)
Statutory reference:
   State criminal law jurisdiction, see R.C. § 2901.11
§ 130.17 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED OR FORFEITED PROPERTY HELD BY POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Safekeeping of property in custody.
      (1)   (a)   Any property that has been lost, abandoned, stolen, seized
pursuant to a search warrant, or otherwise lawfully seized or forfeited and
that is in the custody of the Police Department shall be kept safely by the
Police Department, pending the time it no longer is needed as evidence or for
another lawful purpose, and shall be disposed of pursuant to this section or
R.C. §§ 2981.12 and 2981.13.
         (b)   This section does not apply to the custody and disposal of any
of the following:
            1.   Vehicles subject to forfeiture under R.C. Title 45, except as
provided in division (B)(1)(f) of this section;
            2.   Abandoned junk motor vehicles or other property of negligible
value;
            3.   Property held by a department of rehabilitation and correction
institution that is unclaimed, that does not have an identified owner, that the
owner agrees to dispose of, or that is identified by the department as having
little value;
            4.   Animals taken, and devices used in unlawfully taking animals,
under R.C. § 1531.20;
            5.   Controlled substances sold by a peace officer in the
performance of the officer’s official duties under R.C. § 3719.141;
            6.   Property recovered by a township law enforcement agency under
R.C. §§ 505.105 to 505.109;
            7.   Property held and disposed of under an ordinance of the
municipality or under R.C. §§ 737.29 to 737.33, except that if the municipality
has received notice of a citizens’ reward program as provided in division (B)
(5) of this section and disposes of property under an ordinance shall pay 25%
of any moneys acquired from any sale or auction to the citizens’ reward
program.
      (2)   (a)   The Police Department shall adopt and comply with a written
internal control policy that does all of the following:
            1.   Provides for keeping detailed records as to the amount of
property acquired by the Police Department and the date property was acquired;
            2.   Provides for keeping detailed records of the disposition of
the property, which shall include but not be limited to both of the following:
               a.   The manner in which it was disposed, the date of
disposition, detailed financial records concerning any property sold, and the
name of any person who received the property. The record shall not identify or
enable identification of the individual officer who seized any item of
property.
               b.   An itemized list of the specific expenditures made with
amounts that are gained from the sale of the property and that are retained by
the agency, including the specific amount expended on each expenditure, except
that the policy shall not provide for or permit the identification of any
specific expenditure that is made in an ongoing investigation.
            3.   Complies with R.C. § 2981.13 if the Police Department has a
Law Enforcement Trust Fund or similar fund created under that section.
         (b)   The records kept under the internal control policy shall be open
to public inspection during the Police Department’s regular business hours. The
policy adopted under this section is a public record open for inspection under
R.C. § 149.43.
      (3)   The Police Department, with custody of property to be disposed of
under this section or R.C. §§ 2981.12 or 2981.13, shall make a reasonable
effort to locate persons entitled to possession of the property, to notify them
of when and where it may be claimed, and to return the property to them at the
earliest possible time. In the absence of evidence identifying persons entitled
to possession, it is sufficient notice to advertise in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county and to briefly describe the nature of the property in
custody and inviting persons to view and establish their right to it.
      (4)   As used in this section:
         CITIZENS’ REWARD PROGRAM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 9.92.
         LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Includes correctional institutions.
         TOWNSHIP LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Means an organized police department
of a township, a township police district, a joint police district, or the
office of a township constable.
(R.C. § 2981.11)
   (B)   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property.
      (1)   Unclaimed or forfeited property in the custody of the Police
Department, other than property described in division (A)(1)(b) of this
section, shall be disposed of by order of any court of record that has
territorial jurisdiction over the municipality, as follows:
         (a)   Drugs shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 3719.11 or placed
in the custody of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States for
disposal or use for medical or scientific purposes under applicable federal
law.
         (b)   Firearms and dangerous ordnance suitable for police work may be
given to a law enforcement agency for that purpose. Firearms suitable for
sporting use or as museum pieces or collectors’ items may be sold at public
auction pursuant to division (B)(2) of this section. The Police Department may
sell other firearms and dangerous ordnance to a federally licensed firearms
dealer in a manner that the court considers proper. The Police Department shall
destroy any firearms or dangerous ordnance not given to a law enforcement
agency or sold or shall send them to the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation for destruction by the Bureau.
         (c)   Obscene materials shall be destroyed.
         (d)   Beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol seized from a person who
does not hold a permit issued under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303 or otherwise
forfeited to the state for an offense under R.C. § 4301.45 or R.C. § 4301.53
shall be sold by the Division of Liquor Control if the Division determines that
it is fit for sale or shall be placed in the custody of the Investigations Unit
in the Ohio Department of Public Safety and be used for training relating to
law enforcement activities. The Ohio Department of Public Safety, with the
assistance of the Division of Liquor Control, shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 to provide for the distribution to state or local law
enforcement agencies upon their request. If any tax imposed under R.C. Title 43
has not been paid in relation to the beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol, any
moneys acquired from the sale shall first be used to pay the tax. All other
money collected under this division (B)(1)(d) shall be paid into the State
Treasury. Any beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol that the Division
determines to be unfit for sale shall be destroyed.
         (e)   Money received by an inmate of a correctional institution from
an unauthorized source or in an unauthorized manner shall be returned to the
sender, if known, or deposited in the Inmates’ Industrial and Entertainment
Fund of the institution if the sender is not known.
         (f)   1.   Any mobile instrumentality forfeited under R.C. Chapter
2981 may be given to the law enforcement agency that initially seized the
mobile instrumentality for use in performing its duties, if the agency wants
the mobile instrumentality. The agency shall take the mobile instrumentality
subject to any security interest or lien on the mobile instrumentality.
            2.   Vehicles and vehicle parts forfeited under R.C. §§ 4549.61 to
4549.63 may be given to a law enforcement agency for use in performing its
duties. Those parts may be incorporated into any other official vehicle. Parts
that do not bear vehicle identification numbers or derivatives of them may be
sold or disposed of as provided by rules of the Director of Public Safety.
Parts from which a vehicle identification number or derivative of it has been
removed, defaced, covered, altered, or destroyed and that are not suitable for
police work or incorporation into an official vehicle shall be destroyed and
sold as junk or scrap.
         (g)   Computers, computer networks, computer systems, and computer
software suitable for police work may be given to a law enforcement agency for
that purpose or disposed of under division (B)(2) of this section.
         (h)   Money seized in connection with a violation of R.C. § 2905.32,
2907.21, or 2907.22 shall be deposited in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund
created by R.C. § 5101.87.
      (2)   Unclaimed or forfeited property that is not described in division
(B)(1) of this section or division (A)(1)(b) of this section, with court
approval, may be used by the law enforcement agency in possession of it. If it
is not used by the agency, it may be sold without appraisal at a public auction
to the highest bidder for cash or disposed of in another manner that the court
considers proper.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(5) of this section
and after compliance with division (B)(4) of this section when applicable, any
moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of pursuant to this section
shall be placed in the General Revenue Fund of the state, or the General Fund
of the municipality.
      (4)   If the property was in the possession of the Police Department in
relation to a delinquent child proceeding in a juvenile court, 10% of any
moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of under this section shall
be applied to one or more community addiction services providers, as defined in
R.C. § 5119.01. A juvenile court shall not specify a services provider, except
as provided in this division, unless the services provider is in the same
county as the court or in a contiguous county. If no services provider is
located in any of those counties, the juvenile court may specify a services
provider anywhere in Ohio. The remaining 90% of the proceeds or cash shall be
applied as provided in division (B)(3) of this section.
      (5)   (a)   If the Board of County Commissioners recognizes a citizens’
reward program under R.C. § 9.92, the Board shall notify the Police Department
of the recognition by filing a copy of its resolution conferring that
recognition with the Police Department. When the Board recognizes a citizens’
reward program and the county includes a part, but not all, of the territory of
the municipality, the Board shall so notify the Police Department of the
recognition of the citizens’ reward program only if the county contains the
highest percentage of the municipality’s population.
         (b)   Upon being so notified, the Police Department shall pay 25% of
any forfeited proceeds or cash derived from each sale of property disposed of
pursuant to this section to the citizens’ reward program for use exclusively to
pay rewards. No part of the funds may be used to pay expenses associated with
the program. If a citizens’ reward program that operates in more than one
county or in another state in addition to this state receives funds under this
section, the funds shall be used to pay rewards only for tips and information
to law enforcement agencies concerning offenses committed in the county from
which the funds were received.
      (6)   Any property forfeited under R.C. Chapter 2981 not be used to pay
any fine imposed upon a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to an
underlying criminal offense or a different offense arising out of the same
facts and circumstances.
      (7)   Any moneys acquired from the sale of personal effects, tools, or
other property seized because the personal effects, tools, or other property
were used in the commission of a violation of R.C. §§ 2905.32, 2907.21, or
2907.22 or derived from the proceeds of the commission of a violation of R.C.
§§ 2905.32, 2907.21, or 2907.22 and disposed of pursuant to this division (B)
shall be placed in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund created by R.C. §
5101.87.
(R.C. § 2981.12)
   (C)   Disposition of contraband, proceeds, or instrumentalities. Except as
otherwise provided in R.C. § 2981.13, property ordered forfeited as contraband,
proceeds, or an instrumentality pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2981 shall be disposed
of, used, or sold pursuant to division (B) of this section or R.C. § 2981.12.
If the property is to be sold under division (B) of this section or R.C. §
2981.12, the prosecutor shall cause notice of the proposed sale to be given in
accordance with law.
(R.C. § 2981.13(A))
Statutory reference:
   Forfeiture of property generally, see R.C. Chapter 2981
§ 130.18 IMPOSING SENTENCE FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   (A)   (1)   Unless a mandatory jail term is required to be imposed by R.C.
§§ 1547.99(G), 4510.14(B), or 4511.19(G), or any other provision of the Ohio
Revised Code, or any municipal ordinance, a court that imposes a sentence under
this chapter upon an offender for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor has
discretion to determine the most effective way to achieve the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in §
130.99(B).
      (2)   Unless a specific sanction is required to be imposed or is
precluded from being imposed by the section setting forth an offense or the
penalty for an offense or by any provision of §
130.99 or
133.99 of this code or R.C. §§ 2929.23 through 2929.28, a court that imposes a
sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor may impose on the offender any
sanction or combination of sanctions under §
130.99(C) through (G). The court shall not impose a sentence that imposes an
unnecessary burden on local government resources.
   (B)   (1)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, the
court shall consider all of the following factors:
         (a)   The nature and circumstances of the offense or offenses;
         (b)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender has a history of persistent criminal
activity and that the offender’s character and condition reveal a substantial
risk that the offender will commit another offense;
         (c)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender’s history, character, and condition
reveal a substantial risk that the offender will be a danger to others and that
the offender’s conduct has been characterized by a pattern of repetitive,
compulsive, or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences;
         (d)   Whether the victim’s youth, age, disability, or other factor
made the victim particularly vulnerable to the offense or made the impact of
the offense more serious;
         (e)   Whether the offender is likely to commit future crimes in
general, in addition to the circumstances described in divisions (B)(1)(b) and
(B)(1)(c) of this section;
         (f)   Whether the offender has an emotional, mental, or physical
condition that is traceable to the offender’s service in the armed forces of
the United States and that was a contributing factor in the offender’s
commission of the offense or offenses;
         (g)   The offender’s military service record.
      (2)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, in
addition to complying with division (B)(1) of this section, the court may
consider any other factors that are relevant to achieving the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in §
130.99(B).
   (C)   Before imposing a jail term as a sentence for a misdemeanor, a court
shall consider the appropriateness of imposing a community control sanction or
a combination of community control sanctions under §
130.99(D), (E), (F), and (G). A court may impose the longest jail term
authorized under §
130.99(C) only upon offenders who commit the worst forms of the offense or upon
offenders whose conduct and response to prior sanctions for prior offenses
demonstrate that the imposition of the longest jail term is necessary to deter
the offender from committing a future criminal offense.
   (D)   (1)   A sentencing court shall consider any relevant oral and written
statement made by the victim, the victim's representative, the victim's
attorney, if applicable, the defendant, the defense attorney, and the
prosecuting authority regarding sentencing for a misdemeanor. This division
does not create any rights to notice other than those rights authorized by R.C.
Chapter 2930.
      (2)   At the time of sentencing for a misdemeanor or as soon as possible
after sentencing, the court shall notify the victim of the offense of the
victim’s right to file an application for an award of reparations pursuant to
R.C. §§ 2743.51 through 2743.72.
(R.C. § 2929.22)
§ 130.19 MULTIPLE SENTENCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, R.C. §§ 2929.14(C)
or 2971.03(D) or (E), a prison term, jail term, or sentence of imprisonment
shall be served concurrently with any other prison term, jail term, or sentence
of imprisonment imposed by a court of this municipality, this state, another
state, or the United States. Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this
section, a jail term or sentence of imprisonment for misdemeanor shall be
served concurrently with a prison term or sentence of imprisonment for felony
served in a state or federal correctional institution.
   (B)   (1)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment for a misdemeanor shall
be served consecutively to any other prison term, jail term, or sentence of
imprisonment when the trial court specifies that it is to be served
consecutively or when it is imposed for a misdemeanor violation of R.C. §§
2907.322, 2921.34 or 2923.131. When consecutive sentences are imposed for
misdemeanors under this division, the term to be served is the aggregate of the
consecutive terms imposed, except that the aggregate term to be served shall
not exceed 18 months.
      (2)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment imposed for a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. §§ 4510.11, 4510.14, 4510.16, 4510.21, or 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be served consecutively to
a prison term that is imposed for a felony violation of R.C. §§ 2903.06,
2903.07, 2903.08, or 4511.19 or a felony violation of R.C. § 2903.04 involving
the operation of a motor vehicle by the offender and that is served in a state
correctional institution when the trial court specifies that it is to be served
consecutively. When consecutive jail terms or sentences of imprisonment and
prison terms are imposed for one or more misdemeanors and one or more felonies
under this division, the term to be served is the aggregate of the consecutive
terms imposed, and the offender shall serve all terms imposed for a felony
before serving any term imposed for a misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2929.41)
§ 130.20 APPREHENSION, DETENTION, OR ARREST OF PERSON ON BOND.
   (A)   No person, other than a law enforcement officer, shall apprehend,
detain, or arrest a principal on bond, wherever issued, unless that person
meets all of the following criteria:
      (1)   The person is any of the following:
         (a)   Qualified, licensed, and appointed as a surety bail bond agent
under R.C. §§ 3905.83 through 3905.95;
         (b)   Licensed as a surety bail bond agent by the state where the bond
was written;
         (c)   Licensed as a private investigator under R.C. Chapter 4749;
         (d)   Licensed as a private investigator by the state where the bond
was written; or
         (e)   An off-duty peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2921.51.
      (2)   The person, prior to apprehending, detaining, or arresting the
principal, has entered into a written contract with the surety or with a
licensed surety bail bond agent appointed by the surety, which contract sets
forth the name of the principal who is to be apprehended, detained, or
arrested. For purposes of this division (A)(2), SURETY has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 3905.83.
      (3)   The person, prior to apprehending, detaining, or arresting the
principal, has notified the local law enforcement agency having jurisdiction
over the area in which such activities will be performed and has provided any
form or identification or other information requested by the law enforcement
agency.
   (B)   No person shall represent the person’s self to be a bail enforcement
agent or bounty hunter, or claim any similar title, in this municipality.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal bail bond agent
practices.
      (1)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of division (A) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of division (B) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.27)
§ 130.21 SELF DEFENSE: LIMITATIONS ON DUTY TO RETREAT PRIOR TO USING FORCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, RESIDENCE has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2901.05.
   (B)   For purposes of any section of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, a person has no duty to retreat before using force in self-defense,
defense of another, or defense of that person’s residence if that person is in
a place in which the person lawfully has a right to be.
   (C)   A trier of fact shall not consider the possibility of retreat as a
factor in determining whether or not a person who used force in self-defense,
defense of another, or defense of that person’s residence reasonably believed
that the force was necessary to prevent injury, loss, or risk to life or
safety.
(R.C. § 2901.09)
§ 130.99 PENALTY FOR TITLE XIII.
   (A)   Generally. Except where otherwise specifically classified within the
body of the section of a chapter of this title, a violation of such section
shall be deemed a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a fine of not more
than $500, imprisonment of not more than six months, or both.
(R.C. § 715.67)
   (B)   Considerations in misdemeanor sentencing.
      (1)   A court that sentences an offender for a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, or of any
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, shall be guided
by the overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing. The overriding purposes
of misdemeanor sentencing are to protect the public from future crime by the
offender and others and to punish the offender. To achieve those purposes, the
sentencing court shall consider the impact of the offense upon the victim and
the need for changing the offender’s behavior, rehabilitating the defender, and
making restitution to the victim of the offense, the public, or the victim and
the public.
      (2)   A sentence imposed for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation
of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a violation of a municipal ordinance
that is subject to division (B)(1) of this section shall be reasonably
calculated to achieve the two overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing set
forth in division (B)(1) of this section, commensurate with and not demeaning
to the seriousness of the offender’s conduct and its impact upon the victim,
and consistent with sentences imposed for similar offenses committed by similar
offenders.
      (3)   A court that imposes a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor
or minor misdemeanor violation of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a
violation of a municipal ordinance that is subject to division (B)(1) of this
section shall not base the sentence upon the race, ethnic background, gender,
or religion of the offender.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) of this section shall not apply to any
offense that is disposed of by a traffic violations bureau of any court
pursuant to Traffic Rule 13 and shall not apply to any violation of any
provision of the Ohio Revised Code that is a minor misdemeanor and that is
disposed of without a court appearance. Divisions (B)(1) through (B)(3) of this
section do not affect any penalties established by the municipality for a
violation of its ordinances that are not substantially equivalent to a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised
Code.
(R.C. § 2929.21)
   (C)   Misdemeanor jail terms.
      (1)   Except as provided in § 130.18 or 133.99 of this code or R.C. §
2929.22 or 2929.23 or division (C)(5) of this section and unless another term
is required or authorized pursuant to law, if the sentencing court imposing a
sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor elects or is required to impose a
jail term on the offender pursuant to this chapter, the court shall impose a
definite jail term that shall be one of the following:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than 180 days;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than 90 days;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than 60 days;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than 30 days.
      (2)   (a)   A court that sentences an offender to a jail term under
division (C) of this section may permit the offender to serve the sentence in
intermittent confinement or may authorize a limited release of the offender as
provided in division (E)(2) of this section. The court retains jurisdiction
over every offender sentenced to jail to modify the jail sentence imposed at
any time, but the court shall not reduce any mandatory jail term.
         (b)   1.   If a prosecutor, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01, has filed a
notice with the court that the prosecutor wants to be notified about a
particular case and if the court is considering modifying the jail sentence of
the offender in that case, the court shall notify the prosecutor that the court
is considering modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case. The
prosecutor may request a hearing regarding the court’s consideration of
modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, and, if the
prosecutor requests a hearing, the court shall notify the eligible offender of
the hearing.
            2.   If the prosecutor requests a hearing regarding the court’s
consideration of modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, the
court shall hold the hearing before considering whether or not to release the
offender from the offender’s jail sentence.
      (3)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under division (C)
of this section and the court assigns the offender to a county jail that has
established a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30, the
court shall specify, as part of the sentence, whether the offender may be
considered for participation in the program. During the offender’s term in the
county jail, the court retains jurisdiction to modify its specification
regarding the offender’s participation in the county jail industry program.
      (4)   If a person sentenced to a jail term pursuant to division (C) of
this section, the court may impose as part of the sentence pursuant to R.C. §
2929.28 a reimbursement sanction, and, if the local detention facility in which
the term is to be served is covered by a policy adopted pursuant to R.C. §§
307.93, 341.14, 341.19, 341.21, 341.23, 753.02, 753.04, 753.16, 2301.56, or
2947.19 and R.C. § 2929.37, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The court shall specify both of the following as part of the
sentence:
            1.   If the person is presented with an itemized bill pursuant to
R.C. § 2929.37 for payment of the costs of confinement, the person is required
to pay the bill in accordance with that section.
            2.   If the person does not dispute the bill described in division
(C)(4)(a)1. of this section and does not pay the bill by the times specified in
R.C. § 2929.37, the clerk of the court may issue a certificate of judgment
against the person as described in that section.
         (b)   The sentence automatically includes any certificate of judgment
issued as described in division (C)(4)(a)2. of this section.
      (5)   (a)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and to a specification of the
type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 and if the court imposes a jail term on the
offender for the misdemeanor violation, the court may impose upon the offender
an additional definite jail term as follows:
            1.   Subject to division (C)(5)(a)2. of this section, an additional
definite jail term of not more than 60 days;
            2.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one or more misdemeanor or felony violations of R.C. §§ 2907.22,
2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and also was convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 regarding one or more
of those violations, an additional definite jail term of not more than 120
days.
         (b)   In lieu of imposing an additional definite jail term under
division (C)(5)(a) of this section, the court may directly impose on the
offender a sanction that requires the offender to wear a real-time processing,
continual tracking electronic monitoring device during the period of time
specified by the court. The period of time specified by the court shall equal
the duration of an additional jail term that the court could have imposed upon
the offender under division (C)(5)(a) of this section. A sanction imposed under
this division shall commence on the date specified by the court, provided that
the sanction shall not commence until after the offender has served the jail
term imposed for the misdemeanor violation of R.C. §§ 2907.23, 2907.24,
2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
any residential sanction imposed for the violation under division (E) of this
section or R.C. § 2929.26. A sanction imposed under this division shall be
considered to be a community control sanction for purposes of division (D) of
this section or R.C. § 2929.25, and all provisions of this code and the Ohio
Revised Code that pertain to community control sanctions shall apply to a
sanction imposed under this division, except to the extent that they would by
their nature be clearly inapplicable. The offender shall pay all costs
associated with a sanction imposed under this division, including the cost of
the use of the monitoring device.
      (6)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1423 that charges that the
victim of the violation was a woman whom the offender knew was pregnant at the
time of the violation, the court shall impose on the offender a mandatory jail
term that is a definite term of at least 30 days.
      (7)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under this division
(C), the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender and the jail
term. Upon motion of either party or upon the court’s own motion, the court, in
the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may substitute
one or more community control sanctions under division (E) or (F) of this
section for any jail days that are not mandatory jail days.
(R.C. § 2929.24)
   (D)   Misdemeanor community control sanctions.
      (1)   (a)   Except as provided in §§
130.18 and
133.99 of this code or R.C. §§ 2929.22 and 2929.23 or when a jail term is
required by law, in sentencing an offender for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, the sentencing court may do either of the following:
            1.   Directly impose a sentence that consists of one or more
community control sanctions authorized by divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this
section. The court may impose any other conditions of release under a community
control sanction that the court considers appropriate. If the court imposes a
jail term upon the offender, the court may impose any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions in addition to the jail
term.
            2.   Impose a jail term under division (C) of this section from the
range of jail terms authorized under that division for the offense, suspend all
or a portion of the jail term imposed, and place the offender under a community
control sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this section.
         (b)   The duration of all community control sanctions imposed upon an
offender and in effect for an offender at any time shall not exceed five years.
         (c)   At sentencing, if a court directly imposes a community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)
(1)(a)1. of this section, the court shall state the duration of the community
control sanctions imposed and shall notify the offender that if any of the
conditions of the community control sanctions are violated the court may do any
of the following:
            1.   Impose a longer time under the same community control sanction
if the total time under all of the offender’s community control sanctions does
not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this section;
            2.   Impose a more restrictive community control sanction under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, but the court is not required to
impose any particular sanction or sanctions;
            3.   Impose a definite jail term from the range of jail terms
authorized for the offense under division (C) of this section.
      (2)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control sanction
or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)(1)(a)1.
of this section, the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender
and the period of community control for the duration of the period of community
control. Upon the motion of either party or on the court’s own motion, the
court, in the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may
modify the community control sanctions or conditions of release previously
imposed, substitute a community control sanction or condition of release for
another community control sanction or condition of release previously imposed,
or impose an additional community control sanction or condition of release.
      (3)   (a)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, the court shall place the offender
under the general control and supervision of the court or of a department of
probation in the jurisdiction that serves the court for purposes of reporting
to the court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. If
the offender resides in another jurisdiction and a department of probation has
been established to serve the municipal court or county court in that
jurisdiction, the sentencing court may request the municipal court or the
county court to receive the offender into the general control and supervision
of that department of probation for purposes of reporting to the sentencing
court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. The
sentencing court retains jurisdiction over any offender whom it sentences for
the duration of the sanction or sanctions imposed.
         (b)   The sentencing court shall require as a condition of any
community control sanction that the offender abide by the law and not leave the
state without the permission of the court or the offender’s probation officer.
In the interests of doing justice, rehabilitating the offender, and ensuring
the offender’s good behavior, the court may impose additional requirements on
the offender. The offender’s compliance with the additional requirements also
shall be a condition of the community control sanction imposed upon the
offender.
      (4)   (a)   If the court imposing sentence upon an offender sentences the
offender to any community control sanction or combination of community control
sanctions authorized under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, and the
offender violates any of the conditions of the sanctions, the public or private
person or entity that supervises or administers the program or activity that
comprises the sanction shall report the violation directly to the sentencing
court or to the department of probation or probation officer with general
control and supervision over the offender. If the public or private person or
entity reports the violation to the department of probation or probation
officer, the department or officer shall report the violation to the sentencing
court.
         (b)   Except as provided in division (D)(4)(c) of this section, if an
offender violates any condition of a community control sanction, the sentencing
court may impose upon the violator one or more of the following penalties:
            1.   A longer time under the same community control sanction if the
total time under all of the community control sanctions imposed on the violator
does not exceed the five- year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this
section;
            2.   A more restrictive community control sanction;
            3.   A combination of community control sanctions, including a jail
term.
          (c)   If an offender was acting pursuant to R.C. § 2925.11(B)(2)(b),
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a related provision
under R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14, or R.C. § 2925.141, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and in so doing violated the conditions of a
community control sanction based on a minor drug possession offense, as defined
in R.C. § 2925.11, or violated R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. §
2925.141, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the sentencing
court shall not impose any of the penalties described in division (D)(4)(b) of
this section based on the violation.
         (d)   If the court imposes a jail term upon a violator pursuant to
division (D)(4)(b) of this section, the total time spent in jail for the
misdemeanor offense and the violation of a condition of the community control
sanction shall not exceed the maximum jail term available for the offense for
which the sanction that was violated was imposed. The court may reduce the
longer period of time that the violator is required to spend under the longer
sanction or the more restrictive sanction imposed under division (D)(4)(b) of
this section by all or part of the time the violator successfully spent under
the sanction that was initially imposed.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if an offender, for
a significant period of time, fulfills the conditions of a community control
sanction imposed pursuant to division (E), (F), or (G) of this section in an
exemplary manner, the court may reduce the period of time under the community
control sanction or impose a less restrictive community control sanction.
Fulfilling the conditions of a community control sanction does not relieve the
offender of a duty to make restitution under division (G) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.25)
   (E)   Community residential sanction.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any community residential sanction or combination of
community residential sanctions under this division (E). Community residential
sanctions include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   A term of up to 180 days in a halfway house or a term in a
halfway house not to exceed the longest jail term available for the offense,
whichever is shorter, if the political subdivision that would have
responsibility for paying the costs of confining the offender in a jail has
entered into a contract with the halfway house for use of the facility for
misdemeanor offenders;
         (b)   If the offender is an eligible offender, as defined in R.C. §
307.932, a term in a community alternative sentencing center or district
community alternative sentencing center established and operated in accordance
with that section, in the circumstances specified in that section, with one of
the conditions of the sanction being that the offender successfully complete
the portion of the sentence to be served in the center.
      (2)   A sentence to a community residential sanction under division (E)
(1)(b) of this section shall be in accordance with R.C. § 307.932. In all other
cases, the court that sentences an offender to a community residential sanction
under this division (E) may do either or both of the following:
         (a)   Permit the offender to serve the offender’s sentence in
intermittent confinement, overnight, on weekends or at any other time or times
that will allow the offender to continue at the offender’s occupation or care
for the offender’s family;
         (b)   Authorize the offender to be released so that the offender may
seek or maintain employment, receive education or training, receive treatment,
perform community service, or otherwise fulfill an obligation imposed by law or
by the court. A release pursuant to this division shall be only for the
duration of time that is needed to fulfill the purpose of the release and for
travel that reasonably is necessary to fulfill the purposes of release.
      (3)   The court may order that a reasonable portion of the income earned
by the offender upon a release pursuant to division (E)(2) of this section be
applied to any financial sanction imposed under division (G) of this section.
      (4)   No court shall sentence any person to a prison term for a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor or to a jail term for a minor misdemeanor.
      (5)   If a court sentences a person who has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a misdemeanor to a community residential sanction as described in
division (E)(1) of this section, at the time of reception and at other times
the person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place at which the offender will serve the residential
sanction determines to be appropriate, the person in charge of the operation of
the halfway house, community alternative sentencing center, district community
alternative sentencing center, or other place may cause the convicted offender
to be examined and tested for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis, including
but not limited to hepatitis A, B, and C, and other contagious diseases. The
person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community alternative
sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing center, or other
place at which the offender will serve the residential sanction may cause a
convicted offender in the halfway house, community alternative sentencing
center, district community alternative sentencing center, or other place who
refuses to be tested or treated for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis,
including but not limited to hepatitis A, B, and C, or another contagious
disease to be tested and treated involuntarily.
      (6)   The municipality may enter into a contract with a halfway house for
use of the halfway house to house misdemeanor offenders under a sanction
imposed under division (E)(1)(a) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.26)
   (F)   Nonresidential sanction where jail term is not mandatory.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any nonresidential sanction or combination of
nonresidential sanctions authorized under this division. Nonresidential
sanctions include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   A term of day reporting;
         (b)   A term of house arrest with electronic monitoring or continuous
alcohol monitoring or both electronic monitoring and continuous alcohol
monitoring, a term of electronic monitoring or continuous alcohol monitoring
without house arrest, or a term of house arrest without electronic monitoring
or continuous alcohol monitoring;
         (c)   A term of community service of up to 500 hours for misdemeanor
of the first degree or 200 hours for a misdemeanor of the second, third, or
fourth degree;
         (d)   A term in a drug treatment program with a level of security for
the offender as determined necessary by the court;
         (e)   A term of intensive probation supervision;
         (f)   A term of basic probation supervision;
         (g)   A term of monitored time;
         (h)   A term of drug and alcohol use monitoring, including random drug
testing;
         (i)   A curfew term;
         (j)   A requirement that the offender obtain employment;
         (k)   A requirement that the offender obtain education or training;
         (l)   Provided the court obtains the prior approval of the victim, a
requirement that the offender participate in victim-offender mediation;
         (m)   If authorized by law, suspension of the offender’s privilege to
operate a motor vehicle, immobilization or forfeiture of the offender’s motor
vehicle, a requirement that the offender obtain a valid motor vehicle
operator’s license, or any other related sanction; and
         (n)   A requirement that the offender obtain counseling if the offense
is a violation of R.C. § 2919.25 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance or a violation of R.C. § 2903.13 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance involving a person who was a family or household member at
the time of the violation, if the offender committed the offense in the
vicinity of one or more children who are not victims of the offense, and if the
offender or the victim of the offense is a parent, guardian, custodian, or
person in loco parentis of one or more of those children. This division does
not limit the court in requiring that the offender obtain counseling for any
offense or in any circumstance not specified in this division.
      (2)   If the court imposes a term of community service pursuant to
division (F)(1)(c) of this section, the offender may request that the court
modify the sentence to authorize the offender to make a reasonable
contribution, as determined by the court, to the general fund of the county,
municipality, or other local entity that provides funding to the court. The
court may grant the request if the offender demonstrates a change in
circumstances from the date the court imposes the sentence or that the
modification would otherwise be in the interests of justice. If the court
grants the request, the offender shall make a reasonable contribution to the
court, and the clerk of the court shall deposit that contribution into the
general fund of the county, municipality, or other local entity that provides
funding to the court. If more than one entity provides funding to the court,
the clerk shall deposit a percentage of the reasonable contribution equal to
the percentage of funding the entity provides to the court in that entity’s
general fund.
      (3)   In addition to the sanctions authorized under division (F)(1) of
this section, the court imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, upon an offender who is not required to serve a mandatory
jail term may impose any other sanction that is intended to discourage the
offender or other persons from committing a similar offense if the sanction is
reasonably related to the overriding purposes and principles of misdemeanor
sentencing.
      (4)   The court imposing a sentence for a minor misdemeanor may impose a
term of community service in lieu of all or part of a fine. The term of
community service imposed for a minor misdemeanor shall not exceed 30 hours.
After imposing a term of community service, the court may modify the sentence
to authorize a reasonable contribution, as determined by the court, to the
appropriate general fund as provided in division (F)(2) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.27)
   (G)   Financial sanctions.
      (1)   In addition to imposing court costs pursuant to R.C. § 2947.23, the
court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor, including a minor
misdemeanor, may sentence the offender to any financial sanction or combination
of financial sanctions authorized under this division (G) and, if the offender
is being sentenced for a criminal offense as defined in R.C. § 2930.01, shall
sentence the offender to make restitution pursuant to this division (G) and
R.C. § 2929.281. If the court, in its discretion or as required by this
division (G), imposes one or more financial sanctions, the financial sanctions
that may be imposed pursuant to this division (G) include, but are not limited
to, the following:
         (a)   Restitution.
            1.   Unless the misdemeanor offense could be disposed of by the
traffic violations bureau serving the court under Traffic Rule 13, restitution
by the offender to the victim of the offender's crime or the victim's estate,
in an amount based on the victim's economic loss. The court may not impose
restitution as a sanction pursuant to this division if the offense could be
disposed of by the traffic violations bureau serving the court under Traffic
Rule 13. If the court requires restitution, the court shall order that the
restitution be made to the victim in open court or to the adult probation
department that serves the jurisdiction or the clerk of the court on behalf of
the victim.
            2.   The court shall determine the amount of restitution to be paid
by the offender. The victim, victim's representative, victim's attorney, if
applicable, the prosecutor or the prosecutor's designee, and the offender may
provide information relevant to the determination of the amount of restitution.
The amount the court orders as restitution shall not exceed the amount of the
economic loss suffered by the victim as a direct and proximate result of the
commission of the offense. If the court imposes restitution for the cost of
accounting or auditing done to determine the extent of economic loss, the court
may order restitution for any amount of the victim's costs of accounting or
auditing provided that the amount of restitution is reasonable and does not
exceed the value of property or services stolen or damaged as a result of the
offense. If the court decides to or is required to impose restitution, the
court shall hold an evidentiary hearing on restitution if the offender, victim,
victim's representative, victim's attorney, if applicable, or victim's estate
disputes the amount of restitution. The court shall determine the amount of
full restitution by a preponderance of the evidence.
            3.   All restitution payments shall be credited against any
recovery of economic loss in a civil action brought by the victim or the
victim's estate against the offender. No person may introduce evidence of an
award of restitution under this division (G) in a civil action for purposes of
imposing liability against an insurer under R.C. § 3937.18.
            4.   The court may order that the offender pay a surcharge, of not
more than 5% of the amount of the restitution otherwise ordered, to the entity
responsible for collecting and processing restitution payments.
            5.   The victim, victim's attorney, if applicable, or the attorney
for the victim's estate may request that the prosecutor in the case file a
motion, or the offender may file a motion, for modification of the payment
terms of any restitution ordered. If the court grants the motion, it may modify
the payment terms as it determines appropriate but shall not reduce the amount
of restitution ordered, except as provided in R.C. § 2929.281(A).
         (b)   Fines. A fine of the type described in divisions (G)(1)(b)1. and
(G)(1)(b)2. of this section payable to the appropriate entity as required by
law:
            1.   A fine in the following amount:
               a.   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than
$1,000;
               b.   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $750;
               c.   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $500;
               d.   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $250;
               e.   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $150.
            2.   A state fine or cost as defined in R.C. § 2949.111.
         (c)   Reimbursement.
            1.   Reimbursement by the offender of any or all of the costs of
sanctions incurred by the government, including but not limited to the
following:
               a.   All or part of the costs of implementing any community
control sanction, including a supervision fee under R.C. § 2951.021 and the
costs of global positioning system device monitoring;
               b.   All or part of the costs of confinement in a jail or other
residential facility, including but not limited to a per diem fee for room and
board, the costs of medical and dental treatment, and the costs of repairing
property damaged by the offender while confined;
               c.   All or part of the cost of purchasing and using an
immobilizing or disabling device, including a certified ignition interlock
device, or a remote alcohol monitoring device that a court orders an offender
to use under R.C. § 4510.13.
            2.   The amount of reimbursement under division (G)(1)(c)1. of this
section shall not exceed the total amount of reimbursement the offender is able
to pay and shall not exceed the actual cost of the sanctions. The court may
collect any amount of reimbursement the offender is required to pay under that
division. If the court does not order reimbursement under that division,
confinement costs may be assessed pursuant to a repayment policy adopted under
R.C. § 2929.37. In addition, the offender may be required to pay the fees
specified in R.C. § 2929.38 in accordance with that section.   
      (2)   (a)   If the court determines a hearing is necessary, the court may
hold a hearing to determine whether the offender is able to pay the financial
sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G) or court costs or is likely in
the future to be able to pay the sanction or costs.
         (b)   If the court determines that the offender is indigent and unable
to pay the financial sanction or court costs, the court shall consider imposing
and may impose a term of community service under division (F)(1) of this
section in lieu of imposing a financial sanction or court costs. If the court
does not determine that the offender is indigent, the court may impose a term
of community service under division (F)(1) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this division (G) and in
addition to imposing court costs. The court may order community service for a
minor misdemeanor pursuant to division (F)(4) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this section and in addition to
imposing court costs. If a person fails to pay a financial sanction or court
costs, the court may order community service in lieu of the financial sanction
or court costs.
      (3)   (a)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the
offender pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs
incurred by a county pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F),
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the county
treasurer. The county treasurer shall deposit the reimbursements in the
county’s General Fund. The county shall use the amounts deposited in the fund
to pay the costs incurred by the county pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (b)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the offender
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs incurred by a
municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F),
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the
treasurer of the municipal corporation. The treasurer shall deposit the
reimbursements in the municipal corporation’s General Fund. The municipal
corporation shall use the amounts deposited in the fund to pay the costs
incurred by the municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (c)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(c) of this section for the costs incurred by a private provider
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section
to the provider.
      (4)   (a)   In addition to any other fine that is or may be imposed under
this section, the court imposing sentence upon an offender for misdemeanor
domestic violence or menacing by stalking may impose a fine of not less than
$70 nor more than $500, which shall, except as provided in divisions (G)(4)(b)
and (G)(4)(c) of this section, be transmitted to the Treasurer of Ohio to be
credited to the address confidentiality program fund created by R.C. § 111.48.
         (b)   A court that imposes a fine under division (G)(4)(a) of this
section may retain up to 25% of amounts collected in satisfaction of the fine
to cover administrative costs.
         (c)   A court that imposes a fine under division (G)(4)(a) of this
section may assign up to 25% of amounts collected in satisfaction of the fine
to reimburse the prosecuting attorney for costs associated with prosecution of
the offense.
      (5)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (G)(5), a
financial sanction imposed under division (G)(1) of this section is a judgment
in favor of the state or the political subdivision that operates the court that
imposed the financial sanction, and the offender subject to the financial
sanction is the judgment debtor. A financial sanction of reimbursement imposed
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.a. of this section upon an offender is a
judgment in favor of the entity administering the community control sanction,
and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the judgment debtor. A
financial sanction of reimbursement imposed pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.b.
of this section upon an offender confined in a jail or other residential
facility is a judgment in favor of the entity operating the jail or other
residential facility, and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the
judgment debtor. A financial sanction of restitution imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(a) of this section is an order in favor of the victim of the
offender’s criminal act that can be collected through a certificate of judgment
as described in division (G)(5)(b)1. of this section, through execution as
described in division (G)(5)(b)2. of this section or through an order as
described in division (G)(5)(b)3. of this section and the offender shall be
considered for purposes of the collection as a judgment debtor.
         (b)   Once a financial sanction is imposed as a judgment or order
under this division, the victim, private provider, state, or political
subdivision may do any of the following:
            1.   Obtain from the clerk of the court in which the judgment was
entered, at no charge, a certificate of judgment that shall be in the same
manner and form as a certificate of judgment issued in a civil action;
            2.   Obtain execution of the judgment or order through any
available procedure, including any of the procedures identified in R.C. §
2929.18(D)(1) and (D)(2) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            3.   Obtain an order for the assignment of wages of the judgment
debtor under R.C. § 1321.33 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (6)   The civil remedies authorized under division (G)(5) of this section
for the collection of the financial sanction supplement, but do not preclude,
enforcement of the criminal sentence.
      (7)   Each court imposing a financial sanction upon an offender under
this division (G) may designate the clerk of the court or another person to
collect the financial sanction. The clerk, or another person authorized by law
or the court to collect the financial sanction may do the following:
         (a)   Enter into contracts with one or more public agencies or private
vendors for the collection of amounts due under the sanction. Before entering
into a contract for the collection of amounts due from an offender pursuant to
any financial sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G), a court shall
comply with R.C. §§ 307.86 through 307.92.
         (b)   Permit payment of all or any portion of the sanction in
installments, by financial transaction device if the court is a county court or
a municipal court operated by a county, or by any other reasonable method, in
any time, and on any terms that the court considers just. If the court is a
county court or a municipal court operated by a county, the acceptance of
payments by any financial transaction device shall be governed by the policy
adopted by the board of county commissioners of the county pursuant to R.C. §
301.28. If the court is a municipal court not operated by a county, the clerk
may pay any fee associated with processing an electronic transfer out of public
money or may charge the fee to the offender.
         (c)   To defray administrative costs, charge a reasonable fee to an
offender who elects a payment plan rather than a lump sum payment of any
financial sanction.
      (8)   No financial sanction imposed under this division (G) shall
preclude a victim from bringing a civil action against the offender.
      (9)   If the court imposes restitution, fines, fees, or incarceration
costs on a business or corporation, it is the duty of the person authorized to
make disbursements from assets of the business or corporation to pay the
restitution, fines, fees, or incarceration costs from those assets.
(R.C. § 2929.28)
   (H)   Organizational penalties.
      (1)   Regardless of the other penalties provided in this section, an
organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
130.09 shall be fined by the court as follows:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than $5,000;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $4,000;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $3,000;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $2,000;
         (e)   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $1,000;
         (f)   For a misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more than
$2,000;
         (g)   For a minor misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more
than $1,000.
      (2)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the section defining the offense or penalty plainly indicates a
purpose to impose the penalty provided for violation upon organizations, then
such penalty shall be imposed in lieu of the penalty provided in this section.
      (3)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the penalty provided includes a higher fine than that provided
in this section, then the penalty imposed shall be pursuant to the penalty
provided for violation of the section defining the offense.
      (4)   This section does not prevent the imposition of available civil
sanctions against an organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
130.09, either in addition to or in lieu of a fine imposed pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2929.31)
Cross-reference:
   Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators; registration,
see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Citation issuance and limitations on arrest for minor misdemeanors, see R.C.
§ 2935.26
   Crime Victim’s Reparations Fund, see R.C. § 2929.32
   Habitual sex offender and sexual predator registration, see R.C. Chapter
2950
   Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
   Reports to health care licensing boards of criminal offenses, see R.C. §
2929.42
   Restitution, see R.C. § 2929.281
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Arson; determining property value or amount of physical harm
   
131.03   Criminal damaging or endangering; vehicular vandalism
   
131.04   Criminal mischief
   
131.05   Damaging or endangering aircraft or airport operations
   
131.06   Criminal trespass; aggravated trespass
   
131.07   Tampering with coin machines
   
131.08   Theft
   
131.09   Unauthorized use of a vehicle
   
131.10   Unauthorized use of property, including telecommunication property and
computers; possession of municipal property
   
131.11   Passing bad checks
   
131.12   Misuse of credit cards
   
131.13   Making or using slugs
   
131.14   Prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud
   
131.15   Tampering with records
   
131.16   Securing writings by deception
   
131.17   Defrauding creditors
   
131.18   Receiving stolen property
   
131.19   Value of stolen property
   
131.20   Degree of offense when certain property involved
   
131.21   Injuring vines, bushes, trees, or crops
   
131.22   Detention and arrest of shoplifters and those committing motion
picture piracy; protection of institutional property
   
131.23   Insurance fraud; workers’ compensation fraud; Medicaid fraud
   
131.24   Injury to property by hunters
   
131.25   Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental
services; evidence of lack of capacity to consent
   
131.26   Forgery of identification cards
   
131.27   Criminal simulation
   
131.28   Personating an officer
   
131.29   Trademark counterfeiting
   
131.30   Diminishing or interfering with forfeitable property
   
131.31   Recording credit card, telephone or Social Security numbers
   
131.32   Prosecutions for theft of utilities
   
131.33   Motion picture piracy
   
131.34   Railroad vandalism; criminal trespass; interference with operation of
train; grade crossing device vandalism.
   
131.35   Desecration
   
131.36   Loitering on school grounds
Cross-reference:
   Animals, offenses against, see §§
90.20 et seq.
   Property recovered by police, deposit of stolen property, see §§
34.11 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   Cable television service devices, unauthorized sale or possession, felony,
see R.C. § 2913.041
   Deceptive acts or practices in connection with consumer transactions, see
O.A.C. Chapter 109:4-3
   Disrupting public services, felony, see R.C. § 2909.04
   E-mail advertisements, civil offenses and felony forgery offense, see R.C. §
2307.64
   E-mail spam, civil offenses and felony offenses, see R.C. § 2913.421
   Food stamps, illegal use, see R.C. § 2913.46
   Telecommunications: fraud and unlawful use of a device, felony offenses, see
R.C. §§ 2913.05 and 2913.06
   Terrorism involving agricultural products or equipment, see R.C. § 901.511
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE DUTY SERVICE MEMBER. Any member of the armed forces of the United
States performing active duty under Title 10 of the United States Code.
   ANHYDROUS AMMONIA. A compound formed by the combination of two gaseous
elements, nitrogen and hydrogen, in the manner described below. Anhydrous
ammonia is one part nitrogen to three parts hydrogen (NH3). Anhydrous ammonia
by weight is fourteen parts nitrogen to three parts hydrogen, which is
approximately 82% nitrogen to 18% hydrogen.
   ASSISTANCE DOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
   CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE. Any services provided by or through the facilities
of any cable television system or other similar closed circuit coaxial cable
communications system, or any microwave or similar transmission service used in
connection with any cable television system or other similar closed circuit
coaxial cable communications system.
   COIN MACHINE. Any mechanical or electronic device designed to do both of the
following:
      (1)   Receive a coin or bill, or token made for that purpose;
      (2)   In return for the insertion or deposit of a coin, bill, or token,
automatically dispense property, provide a service, or grant a license.
   COMPUTER. An electronic device that performs logical, arithmetic, and memory
functions by the manipulation of electronic or magnetic impulses. The term
includes but is not limited to all input, output, processing, storage, computer
program, or communication facilities that are connected, or related, in a
computer system or network to an electronic device of that nature.
   COMPUTER CONTAMINANT. Means a computer program that is designed to modify,
damage, destroy, disable, deny or degrade access to, allow unauthorized access
to, functionally impair, record, or transmit information within a computer,
computer system, or computer network without the express or implied consent of
the owner or other person authorized to give consent and that is of a type or
kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this definition or of a type or
kind similar to a type or kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this
definition:
      (1)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “viruses” and
“worms” that are self- replicating or self-propagating and that are designed to
contaminate other computer programs, compromise computer security, consume
computer resources, modify, destroy, record, or transmit data, or disrupt the
normal operation of the computer, computer system, or computer network;
      (2)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “Trojans” or “Trojan
horses” that are not self-replicating or self-propagating and that are designed
to compromise computer security, consume computer resources, modify, destroy,
record, or transmit data, or disrupt the normal operation of the computer,
computer system, or computer network;
      (3)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “zombies” that are
designed to use a computer without the knowledge and consent of the owner, or
other person authorized to give consent, and that are designed to send large
quantities of data to a targeted computer network for the purpose of degrading
the targeted computer’s or network’s performance, or denying access through the
network to the targeted computer or network, resulting in what is commonly
known as “denial of service” or “distributed denial of service” attacks;
      (4)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “trap doors”, “back
doors”, or “root kits” that are designed to bypass standard authentication
software and that are designed to allow access or use of a computer without the
knowledge or consent of the owner, or other person authorized to give consent.
   COMPUTER HACKING.
      (1)   The term means any of the following:
         (a)   Gaining access or attempting to gain access to all or part of a
computer, computer system, or a computer network without express or implied
authorization with the intent to defraud or with intent to commit a crime;
         (b)   Misusing computer or network services including but not limited
to mail transfer programs, file transfer programs, proxy servers, and web
servers by performing functions not authorized by the owner of the computer,
computer system, or computer network or other person authorized to give
consent. As used in this division, “misuse of computer and network services”
includes but is not limited to the unauthorized use of any of the following:
            1.   Mail transfer programs to send mail to persons other than the
authorized users of that computer or computer network;
            2.   File transfer program services or proxy servers to access
other computers, computer systems, or computer networks;
            3.   Web servers to redirect users to other web pages or web
servers.
         (c)   1.   Subject to division (1)(c)2. of this definition, using a
group of computer programs commonly known as “port scanners” or “probes” to
intentionally access any computer, computer system, or computer network without
the permission of the owner of the computer, computer system, or computer
network or other person authorized to give consent. The group of computer
programs referred to in this division includes but is not limited to those
computer programs that use a computer network to access a computer, computer
system, or another computer network to determine any of the following: the
presence or types of computers or computer systems on a network; the computer
network’s facilities and capabilities; the availability of computer or network
services; the presence or versions of computer software including but not
limited to operating systems, computer services, or computer contaminants; the
presence of a known computer software deficiency that can be used to gain
unauthorized access to a computer, computer system, or computer network; or any
other information about a computer, computer system, or computer network not
necessary for the normal and lawful operation of the computer initiating the
access.
            2.   The group of computer programs referred to in division (1)
(c)1. of this definition does not include standard computer software used for
the normal operation, administration, management, and test of a computer,
computer system, or computer network including but not limited to domain name
services, mail transfer services, and other operating system services, computer
programs commonly called “ping”, “tcpdump”, and “traceroute” and other network
monitoring and management computer software, and computer programs commonly
knows as “nslookup” and “whois” and other systems administration computer
software.
         (d)   The intentional use of a computer, computer system, or a
computer network in a manner that exceeds any right or permission granted by
the owner of the computer, computer system, or computer network or other person
authorized to give consent.
      (2)   The term does not include the introduction of a computer
contaminant, as defined in this section, into a computer, computer system,
computer program, or computer network.
   COMPUTER NETWORK. A set of related and remotely-connected computers and
communication facilities that includes more than one computer system that has
the capability to transmit among the connected computers and communication
facilities through the use of computer facilities.
   COMPUTER PROGRAM. An ordered set of data representing coded instructions or
statements that, when executed by a computer, causes the computer to process
data.
   COMPUTER SERVICES. Includes but is not limited to the use of a computer
system, computer network, computer program, data that is prepared for computer
use, or data that is contained within a computer system or computer network.
   COMPUTER SOFTWARE. Computer programs, procedures, and other documentation
associated with the operation of a computer system.
   COMPUTER SYSTEM. A computer and related devices, whether connected or
unconnected, including but not limited to data input, output, and storage
devices, data communications links, and computer programs and data that make
the system capable of performing specified special purpose data processing
tasks.
   COUNTERFEIT TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. A telecommunications device that,
alone or with another telecommunications device, has been altered, constructed,
manufactured, or programmed to acquire, intercept, receive, or otherwise
facilitate the use of a telecommunications service or information service
without the authority or consent of the provider of the telecommunications
service or information service. The phrase includes but is not limited to a
clone telephone, clone microchip, tumbler telephone, or tumbler microchip; a
wireless scanning device capable of acquiring, intercepting, receiving, or
otherwise facilitating the use of telecommunications service or information
service without immediate detection; or a device, equipment, hardware, or
software designed for, or capable of, altering or changing the electronic
serial number in a wireless telephone.
   CREATE A SUBSTANTIAL RISK OF SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO ANY PERSON. Includes
the creation of a substantial risk of serious physical harm to any emergency
personnel.
   CREDIT CARD. Includes but is not limited to a card, code, device, or other
means of access to a customer’s account for the purpose of obtaining money,
property, labor, or services on credit, or for initiating an electronic fund
transfer at a point-of-sale terminal, an automated teller machine, or a cash
dispensing machine. It also includes a county procurement card issued under
R.C. § 301.29.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
   DATA. A representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts, or
instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner and
that are intended for use in a computer, computer system, or computer network.
   DECEPTION. To knowingly deceive another or cause another to be deceived by
any false or misleading representation, by withholding information, by
preventing another from acquiring information, or by any other conduct, act, or
omission that creates, confirms, or perpetuates a false impression in another,
including a false impression as to law, value, state of mind, or other
objective or subjective fact.
   DEFRAUD. To knowingly obtain, by deception, some benefit for oneself or
another, or to knowingly cause, by deception, some detriment to another.
   DEPRIVE. To do any of the following:
      (1)   To withhold property of another permanently, or for a period that
appropriates a substantial portion of its value or use, or with purpose to
restore it only upon payment of a reward or other consideration;
      (2)   To dispose of property so as to make it unlikely that the owner
will recover it;
      (3)   To accept, use, or appropriate money, property, or services, with
purpose not to give proper consideration in return for the money, property, or
services, and without reasonable justification or excuse for not giving proper
consideration.
   DISABLED ADULT. A person who is 18 years of age or older and has some
impairment of body or mind that makes the person unable to work at any
substantially remunerative employment that the person otherwise would be able
to perform and that will, with reasonable probability, continue for a period of
at least 12 months without any present indication of recovery from the
impairment, or who is 18 years of age or older and has been certified as
permanently and totally disabled by an agency of this state or the United
States that has the function of so classifying persons.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   ELDERLY PERSON. A person who is 65 years of age or older.
   ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER. Has the same meaning as in 92 Stat. 3728, 15
U.S.C. § 1693a, as amended.
   EMERGENCY PERSONNEL. Means any of the following persons:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01;
      (2)   A member of a fire department or other firefighting agency of a
municipal corporation, township, township fire district, joint fire district,
other political subdivision, or combination of political subdivisions;
      (3)   A member of a private fire company, as defined in R.C. § 9.60, or a
volunteer firefighter;
      (4)    A member of a joint ambulance district or joint emergency medical
services district;
      (5)   An emergency medical technician-basic, emergency medical
technician-intermediate, emergency medical technician-paramedic, ambulance
operator, or other member of an emergency medical service that is owned or
operated by a political subdivision or a private entity;
      (6)   The State Fire Marshal, the Chief Deputy State Fire Marshal, or an
assistant state fire marshal;
      (7)   A fire prevention officer of a political subdivision or an arson,
fire, or similar investigator of a political subdivision.
   FEDERALLY-LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5502.63.
   FIREARM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
   FORGE. To fabricate or create, in whole or in part and by any means, any
spurious writing, or to make, execute, alter, complete, reproduce, or otherwise
purport to authenticate any writing, when the writing in fact is not
authenticated by that conduct.
   GAIN ACCESS. To approach, instruct, communicate with, store data in,
retrieve data from, or otherwise make use of any resources of a computer,
computer system, or computer network, or any cable service or cable system both
as defined in R.C. § 2913.04.
   INFORMATION SERVICE.
      (1)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, the offering of a
capability for generating, acquiring, storing, transforming, processing,
retrieving, utilizing, or making available information via telecommunications,
including but not limited to electronic publishing.
      (2)   The term does not include any use of a capability of a type
described in division (1) of this definition for the management, control, or
operation of a telecommunications system or the management of a
telecommunications service.
   INTERNET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 341.42.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. Means any house, building, outbuilding, watercraft,
aircraft, railroad car, truck, trailer, tent, or other structure, vehicle, or
shelter, or any portion thereof, to which any of the following applies:
      (1)   It is maintained as a permanent or temporary dwelling, even though
it is temporarily unoccupied and whether nor not any person is actually
present;
      (2)   At the time, it is occupied as the permanent or temporary
habitation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (3)   At the time, it is specially adapted for the overnight
accommodation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (4)   At the time, any person is present or likely to be present in it.
   OWNER. Unless the context requires a different meaning, any person, other
than the actor, who is the owner of, who has possession or control of, or who
has any license or interest in property or services, even though the ownership,
possession, control, license, or interest is unlawful.
   POLICE DOG OR HORSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.321.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   RENTED PROPERTY. Personal property in which the right of possession and use
of the property is for a short and possibly indeterminate term in return for
consideration; the rentee generally controls the duration of possession of the
property within any applicable minimum or maximum term; and the amount of
consideration is generally determined by the duration of possession of the
property.
   SERVICES. Includes labor, personal services, professional services, rental
services, public utility services including wireless service as defined in R.C.
§ 128.01(F)(1), common carrier services, and food, drink, transportation,
entertainment, and cable television services and, for purposes of R.C. §
2913.04 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, includes cable
services as defined in that section.
   SLUG. An object that, by virtue of its size, shape, composition, or other
quality, is capable of being inserted or deposited in a coin machine as an
improper substitute for a genuine coin, bill, or token made for that purpose.
   STATE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   TELECOMMUNICATION. The origination, emission, dissemination, transmission,
or reception of data, images, signals, sounds, or other intelligence or
equivalence or intelligence of any nature over any communications system by any
method, including but not limited to a fiber optic, electronic, magnetic,
optical, digital or analog method.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Any instrument, equipment, machine, or other
device that facilitates telecommunication, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer chip, computer circuit, scanner,
telephone, cellular telephone, pager, personal communications device,
transponder, receiver, radio, modem, or device that enables the use of a modem.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The providing, allowing, facilitating, or
generating of any form of telecommunication through the use of a
telecommunications device over a telecommunications system.
   THEFT OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. §§ 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, 2911.13,
2911.31, 2911.32, 2913.02, 2913.03, 2913.04, 2913.041, 2913.11, 2913.21,
2913.31, 2913.32, 2913.33, 2913.34, 2913.40, 2913.42, 2913.43, 2913.44,
2913.45, 2913.47, 2913.48, former R.C. §§ 2913.47 or 2913.48, or R.C. §§
2913.51, 2915.05, or 2921.41;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
section listed in division (1) of this definition, or a violation of R.C. §§
2913.41, 2913.81, or 2915.06 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or the United States involving robbery, burglary,
breaking and entering, theft, embezzlement, wrongful conversion, forgery,
counterfeiting, deceit, or fraud;
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing any offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   UTTER. To issue, publish, transfer, use, put or send into circulation,
deliver, or display.
   WRITING. Any computer software, document, letter, memorandum, note, paper,
plate, data, film, or other thing having in or upon it any written, type-
written, or printed matter, and any token, stamp, seal, credit card, badge,
trademark, label, or other symbol of value, right, privilege, license, or
identification.
(R.C. §§ 2909.01, 2913.01)
§ 131.02 ARSON; DETERMINING PROPERTY VALUE OR AMOUNT OF PHYSICAL HARM.
   (A)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of another without the other person’s consent;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of the offender or another, with purpose to defraud;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to the
statehouse or a courthouse, school building, or other building or structure
that is owned or controlled by the state, any political subdivision, or any
department, agency, or instrumentality of the state or a political subdivision,
and that is used for public purposes;
      (4)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
property of another without the other person’s consent or to any property of
the offender or another with purpose to defraud;
      (5)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision without the consent of
the other person, the state, or the political subdivision;
      (6)   With purpose to defraud, cause, or create a substantial risk of,
physical harm to any park, preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over
land, forest, timberland, greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is
owned or controlled by the offender, another person, the state, or a political
subdivision.
   (B)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure that is not an occupied structure and that is in or on any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision.
   (C)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(1)
or (B)(2) of this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the
other person.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(3) of
this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the other person, the
state, or the political subdivision.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of arson.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(1) or (B)(1) of this section is one of
the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(2)(b) of this
section, a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the value of the property or the amount of the physical harm
involved is $1,000 or more, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   A violation of division (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)(5), (A)(6), (B)
(2) or (B)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.03)
   (E)   Determining property value or amount of physical harm.
      (1)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or amount of physical harm involved in a violation of division (A)(1)
or (B)(1) of this section:
         (a)   If the property is an heirloom, memento, collector’s item,
antique, museum piece, manuscript, document, record, or other thing that is
either irreplaceable or is replaceable only on the expenditure of substantial
time, effort, or money, the value of the property or the amount of physical
harm involved is the amount that would compensate the owner for its loss.
         (b)   If the property is not covered under division (B)(1)(a) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property can be restored
substantially to its former condition, the amount of physical harm involved is
the reasonable cost of restoring the property.
         (c)   If the property is not covered under division (B)(1)(a) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property cannot be restored
substantially to its former condition, the value of the property, in the case
of personal property, is the cost of replacing the property with new property
of like kind and quality, and in the case of real property or real property
fixtures, is the difference in the fair market value of the property
immediately before and immediately after the offense.
      (2)   As used in this section, FAIR MARKET VALUE has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 2913.61.
      (3)   Prima facie evidence of the value of property, as provided in R.C.
§ 2913.61(D), may be used to establish the value of property pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2909.11(B) - (D))
Cross-reference:
   Negligent burning, see §
91.38
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated arson, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.02
   Arson offender registration, see R.C. §§ 2909.13, 2909.14 and 2909.15
   Convicted arsonist to make restitution to public agency, see R.C. § 2929.71
§ 131.03 CRIMINAL DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING; VEHICULAR VANDALISM.
   (A)   Criminal damaging or endangering.
      (1)   No person shall cause or create a substantial risk of physical harm
to any property of another without the other person’s consent:
         (a)   Knowingly, by any means; or
         (b)   Recklessly, by means of fire, explosion, flood, poison gas,
poison, radioactive material, caustic or corrosive material, or other
inherently dangerous agency or substance.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of criminal damaging
or endangering, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If violation of this
division (A) creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging
or endangering is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the property involved
in a violation of this division (A) is an aircraft, an aircraft engine,
propeller, appliance, spare part, or any other equipment or implement used or
intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging or endangering
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the property
involved in a violation of this division (A) is an aircraft, an aircraft
engine, propeller, appliance, spare part, or any other equipment or implement
used or intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the
violation creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or if the
property involved in a violation of this division (A) is an occupied aircraft,
criminal damaging or endangering is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.06)
   (B)   Vehicular vandalism.
      (1)   As used in this division (B):
         ALLEY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
         HIGHWAY. Means any highway as defined in R.C. § 4511.01 or any lane,
road, street, alley, bridge, or overpass.
         STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
         VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
         VESSEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1546.01.
         WATERS IN THIS STATE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1546.01.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any
object at, onto, or in the path of any of the following:
         (a)   Any vehicle on a highway;
         (b)   Any boat or vessel on any of the waters in this state.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of vehicular
vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(3), vehicular
vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of this
division (B) creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or the
violation of this division (B) causes serious physical harm to property,
vehicular vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
If the violation of this division (B) causes physical harm to any person or
serious physical harm to any person, vehicular vandalism is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.09)
Statutory reference:
   Disrupting public services, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.04
   Railroad grade crossing device vandalism, see R.C. § 2909.101
   Railroad vandalism, see R.C. § 2909.10
   Vandalism, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.05
§ 131.04 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with the either of the following:
         (a)   The property of another;
         (b)   One’s own residential real property with the purpose to decrease
the value of or enjoyment of the residential real property, if both of the
following apply:
            1.   The residential real property is subject to a mortgage.
            2.   The person has been served with a summons and complaint in a
pending residential mortgage loan foreclosure action relating to that real
property. As used in this division, “pending” includes the time between
judgment entry and confirmation of sale.
      (2)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of property of
another, employ a tear gas device, stink bomb, smoke generator, or other device
releasing a substance that is harmful or offensive to persons exposed, or that
tends to cause public alarm;
      (3)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with a bench mark, triangulation
station, boundary marker, or other survey station, monument, or marker;
      (4)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with any safety device, the property of
another, or the property of the offender when required or placed for the safety
of others, so as to destroy or diminish its effectiveness or availability for
its intended purpose;
      (5)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of the property
of another, set a fire on the land of another or place personal property that
has been set on fire on the land of another, which fire or personal property is
outside and apart from any building, other structure, or personal property that
is on that land;
      (6)   Without privilege to do so, and with intent to impair the
functioning of any computer, computer system, computer network, computer
software, or computer program, knowingly do any of the following:
         (a)   In any manner or by any means, including but not limited to
computer hacking, alter, damage, destroy, or modify a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program or data
contained in a computer, computer system, computer network, computer software,
or computer program;
         (b)   Introduce a computer contaminant into a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program.
      (7)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly destroy or improperly tamper
with a critical infrastructure facility.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2911.21.
      IMPROPERLY TAMPER. Means to change the physical location or the physical
condition of the property.
      SAFETY DEVICE. Means any fire extinguisher, fire hose, or fire axe, or
any fire escape, emergency exit, or emergency escape equipment, or any life
line, life-saving ring, life preserver, or life boat or raft, or any alarm,
light, flare, signal, sign, or notice intended to warn of danger or emergency,
or intended for other safety purposes, or any guard railing or safety
barricade, or any traffic sign or signal, or any railroad grade crossing sign,
signal, or gate, or any first aid or survival equipment, or any other device,
apparatus, or equipment intended for protecting or preserving the safety of
persons or property.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal mischief,
and shall be punished as provided in division (C)(2), (C)(3), or (C)(4) of this
section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, if the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section creates a risk of physical harm to any person,
criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3),
(A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
property involved in the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section is an aircraft, an aircraft engine, propeller,
appliance, spare part, fuel, lubricant, hydraulic fluid, any other equipment,
implement, or material used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft, or any cargo carried or intended to be carried in an aircraft and if
the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or if the
aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief committed in
violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) of this section or the loss to the victim resulting from the
violation is $1,000 or more, or if the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) is used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft and the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or
if the aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)(7) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.07)
§ 131.05 DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING AIRCRAFT OR AIRPORT OPERATIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AIR GUN. Means a hand pistol or rifle that propels its projectile by
means of releasing compressed air, carbon dioxide, or other gas.
      AIRPORT OPERATIONAL SURFACE. Means any surface of land or water that is
developed, posted, or marked so as to give an observer reasonable notice that
the surface is designed and developed for the purpose of storing, parking,
taxiing, or operating aircraft, or any surface of land or water that is
actually being used for any of those purposes.
      FIREARM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
      SPRING-OPERATED GUN. Means a hand pistol or rifle that propels a
projectile not less than four or more than five millimeters in diameter by
means of a spring.
   (B)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly throw an object at, or drop an object upon, any moving
aircraft.
      (2)   Knowingly shoot with a bow and arrow, or knowingly discharge a
firearm, air gun, or spring-operated gun, at or toward any aircraft.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly shoot with a bow and arrow, or
shall knowingly or recklessly discharge a firearm, air gun, or spring-operated
gun, upon or over any airport operational surface. This division does not apply
to the following:
      (1)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or of the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, authorized to discharge firearms
and acting within the scope of his or her duties.
      (2)   A person who, with the consent of the owner or operator of the
airport operational surface or the authorized agent of either, is lawfully
engaged in any hunting or sporting activity or is otherwise lawfully
discharging a firearm.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of endangering
aircraft, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation creates any risk
of physical harm to any person, or if the aircraft that is the subject of the
violation is occupied, endangering aircraft is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of endangering
airport operations, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person or substantial risk of serious
harm to any person, endangering airport operations is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. In addition to any other penalty or sanction
imposed for the violation, the hunting license or permit of a person who
violates division (C) of this section while hunting shall be suspended or
revoked pursuant to R.C. § 1533.68.
(R.C. § 2909.08(A) - (E))
§ 131.06 CRIMINAL TRESPASS; AGGRAVATED TRESPASS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another;
      (2)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, the
use of which is lawfully restricted to certain persons, purposes, modes, or
hours, when the offender knows the offender is in violation of any such
restriction or is reckless in that regard;
      (3)   Recklessly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, as
to which notice against unauthorized access or presence is given by actual
communication to the offender, or in a manner prescribed by law, or by posting
in a manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential
intruders, or by fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to restrict
access;
      (4)   Being on the land or premises of another, negligently fail or
refuse to leave upon being notified by signage posted in a conspicuous place or
otherwise being notified to do so by the owner or occupant, or the agent or
servant of either;
      (5)   Knowingly enter or remain on a critical infrastructure facility.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the land or
premises involved was owned, controlled, or in custody of a public agency.
   (C)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the offender was
authorized to enter or remain on the land or premises involved, when the
authorization was secured by deception.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal trespass.
Criminal trespass in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Criminal trespass in
violation of division (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, if the person, in committing the
violation of this section, used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle, the court shall impose a fine of two times the usual amount
imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2911.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and the offender, in committing each violation,
used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle, the court,
in addition to or independent of all other penalties imposed for the violation,
may impound the certificate of registration of that snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle or the certificate of registration and license plate of that all-
purpose vehicle for not less than 60 days. In such a case, R.C. § 4519.47
applies.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, if the
offender, in committing the violation of this section, used an all-purpose
vehicle, the Clerk of the Court shall pay the fine imposed pursuant to this
section to the State Recreational Vehicle Fund created by R.C. § 4519.11.
   (F)   As used in divisions (A) through (E) of this section:
      ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE, and SNOWMOBILE. Have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4519.01.
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Means:
         (a)   One of the following, if completely enclosed by a fence or other
physical barrier that is obviously designed to exclude intruders, or if clearly
marked with signs that are reasonably likely to come to the attention of
potential intruders and that indicate entry is forbidden without site
authorization:
            1.   A petroleum or alumina refinery;
            2.   An electric generating facility, substation, switching
station, electrical control center, or electric transmission and distribution
lines and associated equipment;
            3.   A chemical, polymer, or rubber manufacturing facility;
            4.   A water intake structure, water treatment facility, waste
water facility, drainage facility, water management facility, or any similar
water or sewage treatment system and its water and sewage piping;
            5.   A natural gas company facility or interstate natural gas
pipeline, including a pipeline interconnection, a natural gas compressor
station and associated facilities, city gate or town border station, metering
station, above-ground piping, regulator station, valve site, delivery station,
fabricated assembly, or any other part of a natural gas storage facility
involved in the gathering, storage, transmission, or distribution of gas;
            6.   A telecommunications central switching office or remote
switching facility or an equivalent network facility that serves a similar
purpose;
            7.   Wireline or wireless telecommunications infrastructure,
including telecommunications towers and telephone poles and lines, including
fiber optic lines;
            8.   A port, trucking terminal, or other freight transportation
facility;
            9.   A gas processing plant, including a plant used in the
processing, treatment, or fractionation of natural gas or natural gas liquids;
            10.   A transmission facility used by a federally licensed radio or
television station;
            11.   A steel-making facility that uses an electric arc furnace to
make steel;
            12.   A facility identified and regulated by the United States
Department of Homeland Security’s Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
Program under 6 C.F.R. part 27;
            13.   A dam that is regulated by the state or federal government;
            14.   A crude oil or refined products storage and distribution
facility, including valve sites, pipeline interconnections, pump station,
metering station, below- or above-ground pipeline, or piping and truck loading
or off-loading facility;
            15.   A video service network and broadband infrastructure,
including associated buildings and facilities, video service headends, towers,
utility poles, and utility lines such as fiber optic lines. As used in this
division, “video service network” has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
            16.   Any above-ground portion of an oil, gas, hazardous liquid or
chemical pipeline, tank, or other storage facility;
            17.   Any above-ground portion of a well, well pad, or production
operation;
            18.   A laydown area or construction site for pipe and other
equipment intended for use on an interstate or intrastate natural gas or crude
oil pipeline;
            19.   Any mining operation, including any processing equipment,
batching operation, or support facility for that mining operation.
         (b)   With respect to a video service network or broadband or wireless
telecommunications infrastructure, the above-ground portion of a facility
installed in a public right-of- way on a utility pole or in a conduit;
         (c)   Any railroad property;
         (d)   An electronic asset of any of the following:
            1.   An electric light company that is a public utility under R.C.
§ 4905.02;
            2.   An electric cooperative, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            3.   A municipal electric utility, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            4.   A natural gas company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            5.   A telephone company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            6.   A video service provider, including a cable operator, as those
terms are defined in R.C. § 1332.21.
      ELECTRONIC ASSET. Includes, but is not limited to, the hardware,
software, and data of a programmable electronic device; all communications,
operations, and customer data networks; and the contents of those data
networks.
      LAND or PREMISES. Includes any land, building, structure, or place
belonging to, controlled by, or in custody of another, and any separate
enclosure or room, or portion thereof.
      PRODUCTION OPERATION, WELL, and WELL PAD. Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 1509.01.
(R.C. § 2911.21)
   (G)   Aggravated trespass.
      (1)   (a)   No person shall enter or remain on the land or premises of
another with purpose to commit on that land or those premises a misdemeanor,
the elements of which involve causing physical harm to another person or
causing another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
that person.
         (b)   No person shall enter or remain on a critical infrastructure
facility with purpose to destroy or tamper with the facility.
      (2)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of aggravated trespass.
Aggravated trespass in violation of division (G)(1)(a) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Aggravated trespass in violation of division
(G)(1)(b) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   As used in this division (G), CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2911.21.
(R.C. § 2911.211)
   (H)   Criminal trespass on a place of public amusement.
      (1)   As used in this division (H), PLACE OF PUBLIC AMUSEMENT means a
stadium, theater, or other facility, whether licensed or not, at which a live
performance, sporting event, or other activity takes place for entertainment of
the public and to which access is made available to the public, regardless of
whether admission is charged.
      (2)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly enter or
remain on any restricted portion of a place of public amusement and, as a
result of that conduct, interrupt or cause the delay of the live performance,
sporting event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement
after a printed written notice has been given as provided in division (H)(4)(a)
of this section that the general public is restricted from access to that
restricted portion of the place of public amusement. A restricted portion of a
place of public amusement may include but is not limited to a playing field, an
athletic surface, or a stage located at the place of public amusement.
      (3)   An owner or lessee of a place of public amusement, an agent of the
owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a place of public amusement
may use reasonable force to restrain and remove a person from a restricted
portion of the place of public amusement if the person enters or remains on the
restricted portion of the place of public amusement and, as a result of that
conduct, interrupts or causes the delay of the live performance, sporting
event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement. This
division does not provide immunity from criminal liability for any use of force
beyond reasonable force by an owner or lessee of a place of public amusement,
an agent of either the owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a
place of public amusement.
      (4)   (a)   Notice has been given that the general public is restricted
from access to a portion of a place of public amusement if a printed written
notice of the restricted access has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at
the entrance to that portion of the place of public amusement. If a printed
written notice is posted or exhibited as described in this division regarding a
portion of a place of public amusement, in addition to that posting or
exhibition, notice that the general public is restricted from access to that
portion of the place of public amusement also may be given, but is not required
to be given, by either of the following means:
            1.   By notifying the person personally, either orally or in
writing, that access to that portion of the place of public amusement is
restricted;
            2.   By broadcasting over the public address system of the place of
public amusement an oral warning that access to that portion of the place of
public amusement is restricted.
         (b)   If notice that the general public is restricted from access to a
portion of a place of public amusement is provided by the posting or exhibition
of a printed written notice as described in division (H)(4)(a) of this section,
the municipality, in a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (H)(2)
of this section, is not required to prove that the defendant received actual
notice that the general public is restricted from access to a portion of a
place of public amusement.
      (5)   (a)   Whoever violates division (H)(2) of this section is guilty of
criminal trespass on a place of public amusement, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
         (b)   In addition to any jail term, fine, or other sentence, penalty,
or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to division (H)(5)(a) of this
section, a court may require an offender who violates this section to perform
not less than 30 and not more than 120 hours of supervised community service
work.
(R.C. § 2911.23)
Cross-reference:
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.23
§ 131.07 TAMPERING WITH COIN MACHINES.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to commit theft or to defraud, shall knowingly
enter, force an entrance into, tamper with, or insert any part of an instrument
into any coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with coin
machines, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of this section or of any theft offense as
defined in R.C. § 2913.01, tampering with coin machines is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2911.32)
§ 131.08 THEFT.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to deprive the owner of property or services,
shall knowingly obtain or exert control over either the property or services in
any of the following ways:
      (1)   Without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give
consent;
      (2)   Beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent;
      (3)   By deception;
      (4)   By threat;
      (5)   By intimidation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of theft. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, a violation of this section is misdemeanor theft, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   If the value of the property or services is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   If the property stolen is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person, disabled adult,
active duty service member, or spouse of an active duty service member;
      (4)   If the property stolen is a firearm or dangerous ordnance;
      (5)   If the property stolen is a motor vehicle;
      (6)   If the property stolen is any dangerous drug, or if the offender
previously has been convicted of a felony drug abuse offense;
      (7)   If the property stolen is a police dog or horse or an assistance
dog and the offender knows or should know that the property stolen is a police
dog or horse or an assistance dog;
      (8)   If the property stolen is anhydrous ammonia; or
      (9)    If the property stolen is a special purchase article as defined in
R.C. § 4737.04 or is a bulk merchandise container as defined in R.C. §
4737.012.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by causing a motor vehicle to
leave the premises of an establishment at which gasoline is offered for retail
sale without the offender making full payment for gasoline that was dispensed
into the fuel tank of the motor vehicle or into another container, the court
may do one of the following:
      (1)   Unless division (C)(2) of this section applies, suspend for not
more than six months the offenders driver’s license, probationary driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
nonresident operating privilege;
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s license, probationary driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or nonresident
operating privilege has previously been suspended pursuant to division (C)(1)
of this section, or any other substantially equivalent state or local law,
impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s license, permit, or privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), provided that the suspension
shall be at least six months;
      (3)   The court, in lieu of suspending the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, probationary driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or nonresident operating privilege pursuant to division (C)
(1) or (C)(2) of this section, instead may require the offender to perform
community service for a number of hours determined by the court.
   (D)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by stealing rented property or
rental services, the court may order that the offender make restitution
pursuant to R.C. § 2929.18 or R.C. § 2929.28. Restitution may include, but is
not limited to, the cost of repairing or replacing the stolen property, or the
cost of repairing the stolen property and any loss of revenue resulting from
deprivation of the property due to theft of rental services that is less than
or equal to the actual value of the property at the time it was rented.
Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental services shall
be determined pursuant to the provisions of R.C. § 2913.72.
   (E)   The sentencing court that suspends an offender’s license, permit, or
nonresident operating privilege under division (C) of this section may grant
the offender limited driving privileges during the period of the suspension in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 4510.
(R.C. § 2913.02)
Statutory reference:
   Felony theft provisions, see R.C. § 2913.02(B)
§ 131.09 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF A VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorcycle, motorboat, or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of
the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorboat, or other motor- propelled vehicle without the consent of the owner
or person authorized to give consent, and either remove it from this state, or
keep possession of it for more than 48 hours.
   (C)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section:
      (1)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor, though mistaken,
reasonably believed that he or she was authorized to use or operate the
property.
      (2)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor reasonably believed
that the owner or person empowered to give consent would authorize the actor to
use or operate the property.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unauthorized use of a
vehicle.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D)(1), a violation
of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled adult and if the victim
incurs a loss as a result of the violation, a violation of division (A) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.03)
Statutory reference:
   Theft offense involving a motor vehicle, offender to pay towing and storage
fees, see R.C. § 2913.82
§ 131.10 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PROPERTY, INCLUDING TELECOMMUNICATION PROPERTY AND
COMPUTERS; POSSESSION OF MUNICIPAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate the property of another
without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person, in any manner and by any means, including but not limited
to computer hacking, shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
or cause access to be gained to any computer, computer system, computer
network, cable service, cable system, telecommunications device,
telecommunications service, or information service without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the owner of the
computer, computer system, computer network, cable service, cable system,
telecommunications device, telecommunications service, or information service
or other person authorized to give consent.
   (C)   Except as permitted under R.C. § 5503.101, no person shall knowingly
gain access to, attempt to gain access to, cause access to be granted to, or
disseminate information gained from access to the law enforcement automated
database system created pursuant to R.C. § 5503.10 without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the chair of the Law
Enforcement Automated Data System Steering Committee.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
cause access to be granted to, or disseminate information gained from access to
the Ohio law enforcement gateway established and operated pursuant to R.C. §
109.57(C)(1) without the consent of, or beyond the scope of the express or
implied consent of, the Superintendent of the Bureau of Criminal Identification
and Investigation.
   (E)   The affirmative defenses contained in R.C. § 2913.03(C) are
affirmative defenses to a charge under this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of property. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
unauthorized use of property is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (1)   If unauthorized use of property is committed for the purpose of
devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to obtain property or services,
unauthorized use of property is whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided below, unauthorized use of property
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the value of the property or services or the loss to the
victim is $1,000 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (2)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, unauthorized use of property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of computer, cable, or telecommunication property, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the law enforcement automated database system, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the Ohio law enforcement gateway, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      CABLE OPERATOR. Means any person or group of persons that does either of
the following:
         (a)   Provides cable service over a cable system and directly through
one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in that cable system;
         (b)   Otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of a cable system.
      CABLE SERVICE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or
of information that a cable operator makes available to all subscribers
generally;
         (b)   Subscriber interaction, if any, that is required for the
selection or use of video programming or of information that a cable operator
makes available to all subscribers generally, both as described in division (a)
of this definition;
         (c)   Any cable television service.
      CABLE SYSTEM. Means any facility, consisting of a set of closed
transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control
equipment that is designed to provide cable service that includes video
programming and that is provided to multiple subscribers within a community.
The term does not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any facility that serves only to retransmit the television
signals of one or more television broadcast stations;
         (b)   Any facility that serves subscribers without using any public
right-of-way;
         (c)   Any facility of a common carrier that, under 47 U.S.C. § 522(7)
(c), is excluded from the term “cable system” as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(7);
         (d)   Any open video system that complies with 47 U.S.C. § 573;
         (e)   Any facility of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility system.
(R.C. § 2913.04)
   (K)   Possession of municipal property.
      (1)   No person shall, without being authorized, have in his or her
control or possession any equipment, tools, implements or other property
belonging to the municipality.
(R.C. § 5589.12)
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (K) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
Statutory reference:
   Telecommunications: fraud and unlawful use of a device, felony offenses, see
R.C. §§ 2913.05 and 2913.06
§ 131.11 PASSING BAD CHECKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CHECK. Includes any form of debit from a demand deposit account,
including but not limited to any of the following:
         (a)   A check, bill of exchange, draft, order of withdrawal, or
similar negotiable or non- negotiable instrument;
         (b)   An electronic check, electronic transaction, debit card
transaction, check card transaction, substitute check, web check, or any form
of automated clearing house transaction.
      ISSUE A CHECK. Means causing any form of debit from a demand deposit
account.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall issue or transfer or cause
to be issued or transferred a check or other negotiable instrument, knowing
that it will be dishonored or knowing that a person has ordered or will order
stop payment on the check or other negotiable instrument.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, a person who issues or transfers a check
or other negotiable instrument is presumed to know that it will be dishonored
if either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The drawer has no account with the drawee at the time of issue or
the stated date, whichever is later.
      (2)   The check or other negotiable instrument was properly refused
payment for insufficient funds upon presentment within 30 days after issue or
the stated date, whichever is later, and the liability of the drawer, indorser,
or any party who may be liable thereon is not discharged by payment or
satisfaction within ten days after receiving notice of dishonor.
   (D)   In determining the value of the payment for purposes of division (E)
of this section, the court may aggregate all checks and other negotiable
instruments that the offender issued or transferred or caused to be issued or
transferred in violation of division (B) of this section within a period of 180
consecutive days.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of passing bad checks. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, passing bad checks is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the check or checks or other negotiable instrument or
instruments are issued or transferred to a single vendor or single other person
for the payment of $1,000 or more, or if the check or checks or other
negotiable instrument or instruments are issued or transferred to multiple
vendors or persons for the payment of $1,500 or more, passing bad checks is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.11)
§ 131.12 MISUSE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Practice deception for the purpose of procuring the issuance of a
credit card, when a credit card is issued in actual reliance thereon;
      (2)   Knowingly buy or sell a credit card from or to a person other than
the issuer;
      (3)   As an officer, employee, or appointee of a political subdivision or
as a public servant as defined under R.C. § 2921.01, knowingly misuse a credit
card account held by a political subdivision.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Obtain control over a credit card as security for a debt;
      (2)   Obtain property or services by the use of a credit card, in one or
more transactions, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the card
has expired or been revoked, or was obtained, is retained, or is being used in
violation of law;
      (3)   Furnish property or services upon presentation of a credit card,
knowing that the card is being used in violation of law;
      (4)   Represent or cause to be represented to the issuer of a credit card
that property or services have been furnished, knowing that the representation
is false.
   (C)   No person, with purpose to violate this section, shall receive,
possess, control, or dispose of a credit card.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misuse of credit cards.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section, a
violation of division (A), (B)(1), or (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (D)(3) of
this section, a violation of division (B)(2), (B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the cumulative retail value of the
property and services involved in one or more violations of division (B)(2),
(B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section which violations involve one or more credit
card accounts and occur within a period of 90 consecutive days commencing on
the date of the first violation, is $1,000 or more, misuse of credit cards is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, and if the offense involves a violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of
this section, misuse of credit cards is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.21)
§ 131.13 MAKING OR USING SLUGS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Insert or deposit a slug in a coin machine, with purpose to
defraud;
      (2)   Make, possess, or dispose of a slug, with purpose of enabling
another to defraud by inserting or depositing it in a coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or using slugs, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2913.33)
§ 131.14 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF PURPOSE TO DEFRAUD.
   In a prosecution of a person for a theft offense that alleges that the
person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she was facilitating a
fraud, hired or rented an aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, kept
or operated any of the same that has been hired or rented, or engaged
accommodations at a hotel, motel, inn, campground, or other hostelry, it is
prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud if the person did any of the
following:
   (A)   Used deception to induce the rental agency to furnish the person with
the aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat, sailboat, camper, trailer,
horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, or used deception to induce the
hostelry to furnish the person with accommodations;
   (B)   Hired or rented any aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, or
engaged accommodations, knowing that he or she is without sufficient means to
pay the hire or rental;
   (C)   Absconded without paying the hire or rental;
   (D)   Knowingly failed to pay the hire or rental as required by the contract
of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure;
   (E)   Knowingly failed to return hired or rented property as required by the
contract of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure.
(R.C. § 2913.41)
§ 131.15 TAMPERING WITH RECORDS.
   (A)   No person, knowing that he or she has no privilege to do so, and with
purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is facilitating a fraud, shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Falsify, destroy, remove, conceal, alter, deface, or mutilate any
writing, computer software, data, or record;
      (2)   Utter any writing or record, knowing it to have been tampered with
as provided in division (A)(1) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with records.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if the
offense does not involve data or computer software, tampering with records is
whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   If division (B)(1)(b) of this section does not apply, it is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the writing or record is a will unrevoked at the time of the
offense, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if the
offense involves a violation of division (A) of this section involving data or
computer software, tampering with records is whichever of the following is
applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this
section, it is a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the value of the data or computer software involved in the
offense or the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more or if the offense is
committed for the purpose of devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to
obtain property or services and the value of the property or services or the
loss to the victim is $7,500 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the writing, data, computer software, or record is kept by or
belongs to a local, state, or federal governmental entity, it is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.42)
§ 131.16 SECURING WRITINGS BY DECEPTION.
   (A)   No person, by deception, shall cause another to execute any writing
that disposes of or encumbers property, or by which a pecuniary obligation is
incurred.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of securing writings by
deception. Except as otherwise provided in this division, securing writings by
deception is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property or
the obligation involved is $1,000 or more, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate to state law. If the victim of the
offense is an elderly person, disabled adult, active duty service member, or
spouse of an active duty service member, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.43)
§ 131.17 DEFRAUDING CREDITORS.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud one or more of his or her
creditors, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Remove, conceal, destroy, encumber, convey, or otherwise deal with
any of his or her property;
      (2)   Misrepresent or refuse to disclose to a fiduciary appointed to
administer or manage his or her affairs or estate, the existence, amount, or
location of any of his or her property, or any other information regarding the
property which he or she is legally required to furnish to the fiduciary.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of defrauding creditors.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, defrauding creditors is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property involved is
$1,000 or more, defrauding creditors is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.45)
§ 131.18 RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall receive, retain, or dispose of property of another
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the property has been
obtained through commission of a theft offense.
   (B)   It is not a defense to a charge of receiving stolen property in
violation of this section that the property was obtained by means other than
through the commission of a theft offense if the property was explicitly
represented to the accused person as being obtained through the commission of a
theft offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of receiving stolen property.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, receiving stolen property is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   The value of the property involved is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   The property involved is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   The property involved is a firearm or dangerous ordnance, as
defined in R.C. § 2923.11;
      (4)   The property involved is a motor vehicle as defined in R.C. §
4501.01;
      (5)   The property involved is any dangerous drug, as defined in R.C. §
4729.01; or
      (6)   The property involved in violation of this section is a special
purchase article as defined in R.C. § 4737.04 or a bulk merchandise container
as defined in R.C. § 4737.012.
(R.C. § 2913.51)
§ 131.19 VALUE OF STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   If more than one item of property or services is involved in a theft
offense or in a violation of R.C. § 1716.14(A) involving a victim who is an
elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, the value of the property or services involved for the purpose of
determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value
of all property or services involved in the offense.
   (B)   (1)   When a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or
complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A), R.C. § 2913.02, 2913.03, or
2913.04, R.C. § 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or R.C. § 2913.31 or 2913.43 involving
a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is committed by the
offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity, or relationship to
another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single offense. When a
series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of violations of, attempts
to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations
of R.C. § 2913.02 or 2913.43 involving a victim who is an active duty service
member or spouse of an active duty service member, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is committed by the
offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity, or relationship to
another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single offense. The value of
the property or services involved in the series of offenses for the purpose of
determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value
of all property and services involved in all offenses in the series.
      (2)   If an offender commits a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02
that involves a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims, all of
the offenses may be tried as a single offense. If an offender is being tried
for the commission of a series of violations of, attempts to commit a violation
of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A),
R.C. § 2913.02, 2913.03, or 2913.04, R.C. § 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or R.C. §
2913.31 or 2913.43, whether committed against one victim or more than one
victim, involving a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, pursuant
to a scheme or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a
single offense. If an offender is being tried for the commission of a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or
complicity in violations of R.C. §§ 2913.02 or 2913.43, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, whether committed
against one victim or more than one victim, involving a victim who is an active
duty service member or spouse of an active duty service member pursuant to a
scheme or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a single
offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the value of the
property or services involved for the purpose of determining the value as
required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property and
services involved in all of the offenses in the course of conduct.
      (3)   When a series of two or more offenses under R.C. §§ 2913.40,
2913.48, or 2921.41 is committed by the offender in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another, all of those offenses may be
tried as a single offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the
value of the property or services involved for the purpose of determining the
value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property
and services involved in all of the offenses in the series of two or more
offenses.
      (4)   In prosecuting a single offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2) or
(B)(3) of this section, it is not necessary to separately allege and prove each
offense in the series. Rather, it is sufficient to allege and prove that the
offender, within a given span of time, committed one or more theft offenses or
violations of R.C. §§ 2913.40, 2913.48, or 2921.41 in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another as described in division (B)
(1) or (B)(3) of this section, or committed one or more theft offenses that
involve a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims or a scheme or
course of conduct as described in division (B)(2) of this section. While it is
not necessary to separately allege and prove each offense in the series in
order to prosecute a single offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of
this section, it remains necessary in prosecuting them as a single offense to
prove the aggregate value of the property or services in order to meet the
requisite statutory offense level sought by the prosecution.
   (C)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   The value of an heirloom, memento, collector’s item, antique,
museum piece, manuscript, document, record, or other thing that has intrinsic
worth to its owner and that either is irreplaceable or is replaceable only on
the expenditure of substantial time, effort, or money, is the amount which
would compensate the owner for its loss.
      (2)   The value of personal effects and household goods, and of
materials, supplies, equipment, and fixtures used in the profession, business,
trade, occupation, or avocation of its owner, which property is not covered
under division (C)(1) of this section, and which retains substantial utility
for its purpose regardless of its age or condition, is the cost of replacing
such property with new property of like kind and quality.
      (3)   The value of any real or personal property that is not covered
under division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section, and the value of services, is
the fair market value of the property or services. As used in this section,
FAIR MARKET VALUE is the money consideration which a buyer would give and a
seller would accept for property or services, assuming that the buyer is
willing to buy and the seller is willing to sell, that both are fully informed
as to all facts material to the transaction, and that neither is under any
compulsion to act.
   (D)   Without limitation on the evidence which may be used to establish the
value of property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   When the property involved is personal property held for sale at
wholesale or retail, the price at which the property was held for sale is prima
facie evidence of its value.
      (2)   When the property involved is a security or commodity traded on an
exchange, the closing price or, if there is no closing price, the asked price,
given in the latest marked quotation prior to the offense, is prima facie
evidence of the value of the security or commodity.
      (3)   When the property involved is livestock, poultry, or raw
agricultural products for which a local market price is available, the latest
local market price prior to the offense is prima facie evidence of the value of
the livestock, poultry, or products.
      (4)   When the property involved is a negotiable instrument, the face
value is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (5)   When the property involved is a warehouse receipt, bill of lading,
pawn ticket, claim check, or other instrument entitling the holder or bearer to
receive property, the face value or, if there is no face value, the value of
the property covered by the instrument less any payment necessary to receive
the property, is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (6)   When the property involved is a ticket of admission, ticket for
transportation, coupon, token, or other instrument entitling the holder or
bearer to receive property or services, the face value or, if there is no face
value, the value of the property or services which may be received by the
instrument is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (7)   When the services involved are gas, electricity, water, telephone,
transportation, shipping, or other services for which the rate is established
by law, the duly established rate is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
      (8)   When the services involved are services for which the rate is not
established by law, and the offender has been notified prior to the offense of
the rate for the services, either in writing, or orally, or by posting in a
manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential offenders,
the rate contained in the notice is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
(R.C. § 2913.61(B) - (E))
§ 131.20 DEGREE OF OFFENSE WHEN CERTAIN PROPERTY INVOLVED.
   Regardless of the value of the property involved, and regardless of whether
the offender previously has been convicted of a theft offense, a violation of §
131.08 or §
131.18 is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the property
involved is any of the following:
   (A)   A credit card;
   (B)   A printed form for a check or other negotiable instrument, that on its
face identifies the drawer or maker for whose use it is designed or identifies
the account on which it is to be drawn, and that has not been executed by the
drawer or maker or on which the amount is blank;
   (C)   A motor vehicle identification license plate as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.22, a temporary motor vehicle license registration as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.182, or any comparable temporary motor vehicle license registration as
prescribed by the applicable law of another state or the United States;
   (D)   A blank form for a certificate of title or a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate to a motor vehicle, as prescribed by R.C. § 4505.07;
   (E)   A blank form for any license listed in R.C. § 4507.01.
(R.C. § 2913.71)
§ 131.21 INJURING VINES, BUSHES, TREES, OR CROPS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly cut down,
destroy, girdle, or otherwise injure a vine, bush, shrub, sapling, tree, or
crop standing or growing on the land of another or upon public land.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (C) of this section,
whoever violates this section is liable in treble damages for the injury
caused.
(R.C. § 901.51)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 901.99(A))
§ 131.22 DETENTION AND ARREST OF SHOPLIFTERS AND THOSE COMMITTING MOTION
PICTURE PIRACY; PROTECTION OF INSTITUTIONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ARCHIVAL INSTITUTION. Means any public or private building, structure, or
shelter in which are stored historical documents, devices, records,
manuscripts, or items of public interest, which historical materials are stored
to preserve the materials or the information in the materials, to disseminate
the information contained in the materials, or to make the materials available
for public inspection or for inspection by certain persons who have a
particular interest in, use for, or knowledge concerning the materials.
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2913.07.
      FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.07.
      MUSEUM. Means any public or private nonprofit institution that is
permanently organized for primarily educational or aesthetic purposes, owns or
borrows objects or items of public interest, and cares for and exhibits to the
public the objects or items.
      PRETRIAL DIVERSION PROGRAM. Means a rehabilitative, educational program
designed to reduce recidivism and promote personal responsibility that is at
least four hours in length and that has been approved by any court in this
state.
   (B)   A merchant, or an employee or agent of a merchant, who has probable
cause to believe that things offered for sale by a mercantile establishment
have been unlawfully taken by a person, may, for the purposes set forth in
division (D) below, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable
length of time within the mercantile establishment or its immediate vicinity.
   (C)   Any officer, employee, or agent of a library, museum, or archival
institution may, for the purposes set forth in division (D) below or for the
purpose of conducting a reasonable investigation of a belief that the person
has acted in a manner described in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) below, detain a
person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of time within, or in the
immediate vicinity of, the library, museum, or archival institution, if the
officer, employee, or agent has probable cause to believe that the person has:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly moved, defaced, damaged,
destroyed, or otherwise improperly tampered with property owned by or in the
custody of the library, museum, or archival institution; or
      (2)   With purpose to deprive the library, museum, or archival
institution of property owned by it or in its custody, knowingly obtained or
exerted control over the property without the consent of the owner or person
authorized to give consent, beyond the scope of the express or implied consent
of the owner or person authorized to give consent, by deception, or by threat.
   (D)   An officer, agent, or employee of a library, museum, or archival
institution pursuant to division (C) above or a merchant or an employee or
agent of a merchant pursuant to division (B) above may detain another person
for any of the following purposes:
      (1)   To recover the property that is the subject of the unlawful taking,
criminal mischief, or theft;
      (2)   To cause an arrest to be made by a peace officer;
      (3)   To obtain a warrant of arrest;
      (4)   To offer the person, if the person is suspected of the unlawful
taking, criminal mischief, or theft and notwithstanding any other provision of
this Code or the Ohio Revised Code, an opportunity to complete a pretrial
diversion program and to inform the person of the other legal remedies
available to the library, museum, archival institution, or merchant.
   (E)   The owner or lessee of a facility in which a motion picture is being
shown, or the owner’s or lessee’s employee or agent, who has probable cause to
believe that a person is or has been operating an audiovisual recording
function of a device in violation of R.C. § 2913.07 may, for the purpose of
causing an arrest to be made by a peace officer or of obtaining an arrest
warrant, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of
time within the facility or its immediate vicinity.
   (F)   The officer, agent, or employee of the library, museum, or archival
institution, the merchant or an employee or agent of a merchant, or the owner,
lessee, employee, or agent of the facility acting under divisions (B), (C) or
(E) above shall not search the person detained, search or seize any property
belonging to the person detained without the person’s consent, or use undue
restraint upon the person detained.
   (G)   Any peace officer may arrest without a warrant any person that the
officer has probable cause to believe has committed any act described in
divisions (C)(1) or (C)(2) above, that the officer has probable cause to
believe has committed an unlawful taking in a mercantile establishment, or that
the officer has reasonable cause to believe has committed an act prohibited by
R.C. § 2913.07. An arrest under this division shall be made within a reasonable
time after the commission of the act or unlawful taking.
(R.C. § 2935.041)
Statutory reference:
   Arrest without a warrant generally, see R.C. § 2935.03
   Probable cause, see R.C. § 2933.22
§ 131.23 INSURANCE FRAUD; WORKERS’ COMPENSATION FRAUD; MEDICAID FRAUD.
   (A)   Insurance fraud.
      (1)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   Present to, or cause to be presented to, an insurer any written
or oral statement that is part of, or in support of, an application for
insurance, a claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other
benefit pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the
statement, is false or deceptive;
         (b)   Assist, aid, abet, solicit, procure, or conspire with another to
prepare or make any written or oral statement that is intended to be presented
to an insurer as part of, or in support of, an application for insurance, a
claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other benefit
pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the statement,
is false or deceptive.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of insurance fraud.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, insurance fraud is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the amount of the claim that is false or deceptive is
$1,000 or more, insurance fraud is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   This division (A) shall not be construed to abrogate, waive, or
modify R.C. § 2317.02(A).
      (4)   As used in this division (A):
         DATA. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01 and additionally
includes any other representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts,
or instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner.
         DECEPTIVE. Means that a statement, in whole or in part, would cause
another to be deceived because it contains a misleading representation,
withholds information, prevents the acquisition of information, or by any other
conduct, act, or omission creates, confirms, or perpetuates a false impression,
including but not limited to a false impression as to law, value, state of
mind, or other objective or subjective fact.
         INSURER. Means any person that is authorized to engage in the business
of insurance in this state under R.C. Title 39, the Ohio Fair Plan Underwriting
Association created under R.C. § 3929.43, any health insuring corporation, and
any legal entity that is self-insured and provides benefits to its employees or
members.
         POLICY. Means a policy, certificate, contract, or plan that is issued
by an insurer.
         STATEMENT. Includes but is not limited to any notice, letter, or
memorandum; proof of loss; bill of lading; receipt for payment; invoice,
account, or other financial statement; estimate of property damage; bill for
services; diagnosis or prognosis; prescription; hospital, medical, or dental
chart or other record; x-ray, photograph, videotape, or movie film; test
result; other evidence of loss, injury, or expense; computer-generated
document; and data in any form.
(R.C. § 2913.47)
   (B)   Workers’ compensation fraud.
      (1)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Receive workers’ compensation benefits to which the person is
not entitled;
         (b)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false or
misleading statement with the purpose to secure payment for goods or services
rendered under R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131 or to secure workers’
compensation benefits;
         (c)   Alter, falsify, destroy, conceal, or remove any record or
document that is necessary to fully establish the validity of any claim filed
with, or necessary to establish the nature and validity of all goods and
services for which reimbursement or payment was received or is requested from
the Bureau of Workers’ Compensation, or a self-insuring employer under R.C.
Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131;
         (d)   Enter into an agreement or conspiracy to defraud the Bureau of
Workers’ Compensation or a self-insuring employer by making or presenting or
causing to be made or presented a false claim for workers’ compensation
benefits;
         (e)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false
statement concerning manual codes, classification or employees, payroll, paid
compensation, or number of personnel, when information of that nature is
necessary to determine the actual workers’ compensation premium or assessment
owed to the Bureau by an employer;
         (f)   Alter, forge, or create a workers’ compensation certificate or
falsely show current or correct workers’ compensation coverage;
         (g)   Fail to secure or maintain workers’ compensation coverage as
required by R.C. Chapter 4123 with the intent to defraud the Bureau of Workers’
Compensation.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of workers’
compensation fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, workers’
compensation fraud is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of
premiums and assessments unpaid pursuant to actions described in divisions (B)
(1)(e), (B)(1)(f), or (B)(1)(g) of this section, or goods, services, property,
or money stolen is $1,000 or more, workers’ compensation fraud is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Upon application of the governmental body that conducted the
investigation and prosecution of a violation of this division (B), the court
shall order the person who is convicted of the violation to pay the
governmental body its costs of investigating and prosecuting the case. These
costs are in addition to any other costs or penalty provided under federal,
state or local law.
      (4)   The remedies and penalties provided in this division (B) are not
exclusive remedies and penalties and do not preclude the use of any other
criminal or civil remedy or penalty for any act that is in violation of this
division (B).
      (5)   As used in this division (B):
         CLAIM. Means any attempt to cause the Bureau of Workers’ Compensation,
an independent third party with whom the administrator or an employer contracts
under R.C. § 4121.44, or a self-insuring employer to make payment or
reimbursement for workers’ compensation benefits.
         EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         EMPLOYER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         EMPLOYMENT. Means participating in any trade, occupation, business,
service, or profession for substantial gainful remuneration.
         FALSE. Means wholly or partially untrue or deceptive.
         GOODS. Includes but is not limited to medical supplies, appliances,
rehabilitative equipment, and any other apparatus or furnishing provided or
used in the care, treatment, or rehabilitation of a claimant for workers’
compensation benefits.
         RECORDS. Means any medical, professional, financial, or business
record relating to the treatment or care of any person, to goods or services
provided to any person, or to rates paid for goods or services provided to any
person, or any record that the administrator of workers’ compensation requires
pursuant to rule.
         REMUNERATION. Includes but is not limited to wages, commissions,
rebates, and any other reward or consideration.
         SELF-INSURING EMPLOYER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         SERVICES. Includes but is not limited to any service provided by any
health care provider to a claimant for workers’ compensation benefits and any
and all services provided by the Bureau as part of workers’ compensation
insurance coverage.
         STATEMENT. Includes but is not limited to any oral, written,
electronic, electronic impulse, or magnetic communication notice, letter,
memorandum, receipt for payment, invoice, account, financial statement, or bill
for services; a diagnosis, prognosis, prescription, hospital, medical, or
dental chart or other record; and a computer generated document.
         WORKERS’ COMPENSATION BENEFITS. Means any compensation or benefits
payable under R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131.
(R.C. § 2913.48)
   (C)   Medicaid fraud.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a false or
misleading statement or representation for use in obtaining reimbursement from
the Medicaid program.
      (2)   No person, with purpose to commit fraud or knowing that the person
is facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   Contrary to the terms of the person’s provider agreement,
charge, solicit, accept or receive for goods or services that the person
provides under the Medicaid program any property, money or other consideration
in addition to the amount of reimbursement under the Medicaid program and the
person’s provider agreement for the goods or services and any cost-sharing
expenses authorized by R.C. § 5162.20 or rules adopted by the Medicaid Director
regarding the Medicaid program.
         (b)   Solicit, offer or receive any remuneration, other than any cost-
sharing expenses authorized by R.C. § 5162.20 or rules adopted by the Medicaid
Director regarding the Medicaid program, in cash or in kind, including but not
limited to a kickback or rebate, in connection with the furnishing of goods or
services for which whole or partial reimbursement is or may be made under the
Medicaid program.
      (3)   No person, having submitted a claim for or provided goods or
services under the Medicaid program, shall do either of the following for a
period of at least six years after a reimbursement pursuant to that claim, or a
reimbursement for those goods or services, is received under the Medicaid
program:
         (a)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to fully disclose the nature of all goods or services for
which the claim was submitted, or for which reimbursement was received, by the
person; or
         (b)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to disclose fully all income and expenditures upon which
rates of reimbursements were based for the person.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (C) is guilty of Medicaid fraud.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, Medicaid fraud is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the value of the property, services or funds obtained
in violation of this section is $1,000 or more, Medicaid fraud is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
      (5)   Upon application of the governmental agency, office or other entity
that conducted the investigation and prosecution in a case under this section,
the court shall order any person who is convicted of a violation of this
section for receiving any reimbursement for furnishing goods or services under
the Medicaid program to which the person is not entitled to pay to the
applicant its cost of investigating and prosecuting the case. The costs of
investigation and prosecution that a defendant is ordered to pay pursuant to
this division shall be in addition to any other penalties for the receipt of
that reimbursement that are provided in this section, R.C. § 2913.40 or
5164.35, or any other provision of law.
      (6)   The provisions of this section are not intended to be exclusive
remedies and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this section.
      (7)   As used in this division (C):
         PROVIDER. Means any person who has signed a provider agreement with
the Department of Medicaid to provide goods or services pursuant to the
Medicaid program or any person who has signed an agreement with a party to such
a provider agreement under which the person agrees to provide goods or services
that are reimbursable under the Medicaid program.
         PROVIDER AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
         RECIPIENT. Means any individual who receives goods or services from a
provider under the Medicaid program.
         RECORDS. Means any medical, professional, financial or business
records relating to the treatment or care of any recipient, to goods or
services provided to any recipient, or to rates paid for goods or services
provided to any recipient, and any records that are required by the rules of
the Medicaid Director to be kept for the Medicaid program.
         STATEMENT or REPRESENTATION. Means any oral, written, electronic,
electronic impulse or magnetic communication that is used to identify an item
of goods or a service for which reimbursement may be made under the Medicaid
program or that states income and expense and is or may be used to determine a
rate of reimbursement under the Medicaid program.
(R.C. § 2913.40)
   (D)   Medicaid eligibility fraud.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following in an application
for enrollment in the Medicaid program or in a document that requires a
disclosure of assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for the
Medicaid program:
         (a)   Make or cause to be made a false or misleading statement;
         (b)   Conceal an interest in property;
         (c)   1.   Except as provided in division (D)(1)(c)2. of this section,
fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during the period
beginning 36 months before submission of the application or document and ending
on the date the application or document was submitted;
            2.   Fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during
the period beginning 60 months before submission of the application or document
and ending on the date the application or document was submitted and that was
made to an irrevocable trust a portion of which is not distributable to the
applicant for or recipient of Medicaid or to a revocable trust.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation
of this division (D) is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the
Medicaid services paid as a result of the violation is $1,000 or more, a
violation of this division (D) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
         (b)   In addition to imposing a sentence under division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, the court shall order that a person who is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud make restitution in the full amount of any Medicaid services
paid on behalf of an applicant for or recipient of Medicaid for which the
applicant or recipient was not eligible, plus interest at the rate applicable
to judgments on unreimbursed amounts from the date on which the Medicaid
services were paid to the date on which restitution is made.
         (c)   The remedies and penalties provided in this division (D) are not
exclusive and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this division (D).
      (3)   This division (D) does not apply to a person who fully disclosed in
an application for Medicaid or in a document that requires a disclosure of
assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for Medicaid all of the
interests in property of the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, all
transfers of property by the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, and the
circumstances of all those transfers.
      (4)   Any amounts of Medicaid services recovered as restitution under
this division (D) and any interest on those amounts shall be credited to the
General Revenue Fund, and any applicable federal share shall be returned to the
appropriate agency or department of the United States.
      (5)   As used in this division (D):
         MEDICAID SERVICES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
         PROPERTY. Means any real or personal property or other asset in which
a person has any legal title or interest.
(R.C. § 2913.401)
§ 131.24 INJURY TO PROPERTY BY HUNTERS.
   (A)   No person in the act of hunting, pursuing, taking, or killing a wild
animal shall act in a negligent, careless, or reckless manner so as to injure
property.
(R.C. § 1533.171(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Violation, license revocation, see R.C. § 1533.171(B) through (E)
§ 131.25 EVIDENCE OF INTENT TO COMMIT THEFT OF RENTED PROPERTY OR RENTAL
SERVICES; EVIDENCE OF LACK OF CAPACITY TO CONSENT.
   (A)   Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental
services.
      (1)   As used in this division (A):
         RENTER. Means a person who owns rented property.
         RENTEE. Means a person who pays consideration to a renter for the use
of rented property.
      (2)   Each of the following shall be considered evidence of intent to
commit theft of rented property or rental services:
         (a)   At the time of entering into the rental contract, the rentee
presented the renter with identification that was materially false, fictitious,
or not current with respect to name, address, place of employment, or other
relevant information.
         (b)   After receiving a notice demanding the return of the rented
property as provided in division (A)(3) of this section, the rentee neither
returned the rented property nor made arrangements acceptable with the renter
to return the rented property.
      (3)   To establish that a rentee has an intent to commit theft of rented
property or rental services under division (A)(2)(b) above, a renter may issue
a notice to a rentee demanding the return of the rented property. The renter
shall mail the notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
rentee at the address the rentee gave when the rental contract was executed, or
to the rentee at the last address the rentee or the rentee’s agent furnished in
writing to the renter.
      (4)   A demand for the return of the rented property is not a
prerequisite for the prosecution of a rentee for theft of rented property or
rental services. The evidence specified in division (A)(2) above does not
constitute the only evidence that may be considered as evidence of intent to
commit theft of rented property or rental services.
(R.C. § 2913.72)
   (B)   Evidence of lack of capacity to consent.
      (1)   In a prosecution for any alleged violation of §
131.08 through
131.20,
131.23,
131.25 through
131.29, or
132.11, if the lack of consent of the victim is an element of the provision
that allegedly was violated, evidence that, at the time of the alleged
violation, the victim lacked the capacity to give consent is admissible to show
that the victim did not give consent.
      (2)   As used in this section, LACKS THE CAPACITY TO CONSENT means being
impaired for any reason to the extent that the person lacks sufficient
understanding or capacity to make and carry out reasonable decisions concerning
the person or the person’s resources.
(R.C. § 2913.73)
§ 131.26 FORGERY OF IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do either of the following:
      (1)   Forge an identification card.
      (2)   Sell or otherwise distribute a card that purports to be an
identification card, knowing it was forged.
   (B)   As used in this section, IDENTIFICATION CARD means a card that
includes personal information or characteristics of an individual, a purpose of
which is to establish the identity of the bearer described on the card, whether
the words “identity,” “identification,” “identification card,” or other similar
words appear on the card.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of forging
identification cards or selling or distributing forged identification cards.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, forging identification cards or
selling or distributing forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
division (A) of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, forging identification cards or selling or distributing
forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the first degree and, in
addition, the court shall impose upon the offender a fine not less than $250.
      (2)    If the victim of a violation of this section is an elderly person,
R.C. § 2913.31(C)(2)(b) applies and the offense shall be prosecuted under R.C.
§ 2913.31.
(R.C. § 2913.31(B), (C)(2))
Statutory reference:
   Forgery, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2913.31(A) and (C)(1)
   Forgery of originating address or other routing information in connection
with the transmission of an electronic mail advertisement, felony provisions,
see R.C. § 2307.64
§ 131.27 CRIMINAL SIMULATION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud, or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Make or alter any object so that it appears to have value because
of antiquity, rarity, curiosity, source, or authorship, which it does not in
fact possess.
      (2)   Practice deception in making, retouching, editing, or reproducing
any photograph, movie film, video tape, phonograph record, or recording tape.
      (3)   Falsely or fraudulently make, simulate, forge, alter, or
counterfeit any wrapper, label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor
Control Commission under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, falsely or fraudulently
cause to be made, simulated, forged, altered, or counterfeited any wrapper,
label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under
R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, or use more than once any wrapper, label, stamp,
cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under R.C. Chapters
4301 and 4303.
      (4)   Offer, or possess with the purpose to offer, any object that the
person knows to have been simulated as provided in divisions (A)(1), (A)(2) or
(A)(3) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal simulation. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, criminal simulation is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more, criminal
simulation is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.32)
§ 131.28 PERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is
facilitating a fraud, or with purpose to induce another to purchase property or
services, shall personate a law enforcement officer, or an inspector,
investigator, or agent of any governmental agency.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of personating an officer, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2913.44)
Cross-reference:
   Impersonating an officer (non-fraud offense), see §
132.12
§ 131.29 TRADEMARK COUNTERFEITING.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Attach, affix, or otherwise use a counterfeit mark in connection
with the manufacture of goods or services, whether or not the goods or services
are intended for sale or resale.
      (2)   Possess, sell, or offer for sale tools, machines, instruments,
materials, articles, or other items of personal property with the knowledge
that they are designed for the production or reproduction of counterfeit marks.
      (3)   Purchase or otherwise acquire goods, and keep or otherwise have the
goods in the person’s possession, with the knowledge that a counterfeit mark is
attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used in connection with the goods and
with the intent to sell or otherwise dispose of the goods.
      (4)   Sell, offer for sale, or otherwise dispose of goods with the
knowledge that a counterfeit mark is attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used
in connection with the goods.
      (5)   Sell, offer for sale, or otherwise provide services with the
knowledge that a counterfeit mark is used in connection with that sale, offer
for sale, or other provision of the services.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of trademark counterfeiting.
      (1)   A violation of division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)    Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
division (A)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
circumstances of the violation indicate that the tools, machines, instruments,
materials, articles, or other items of personal property involved in the
violation were intended for use in the commission of a felony, a violation of
division (A)(2) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
division (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the cumulative sales price of the goods or services to which or in
connection with which the counterfeit mark is attached, affixed or otherwise
used in the offense is $1,000 or more, a violation of division (A)(3), (A)(4)
or (A)(5) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   A defendant may assert as an affirmative defense to a charge of a
violation of this section defenses, affirmative defenses, and limitations on
remedies that would be available in a civil, criminal or administrative action
or proceeding under the Lanham Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1051 through 1127, as
amended, the Trademark Counterfeiting Act of 1984, being 18 U.S.C. § 2320, as
amended, R.C. Chapter 1329 or another section of the Ohio Revised Code, or
common law.
   (D)   (1)   Law enforcement officers may seize pursuant to Criminal Rule 41,
R.C. Chapter 2933, or R.C. Chapter 2981 either of the following:
         (a)   Goods to which or in connection with which a person attached,
affixed, otherwise used, or intended to attach, affix or otherwise use a
counterfeit mark in violation of this section.
         (b)   Tools, machines, instruments, materials, articles, vehicles or
other items of personal property that are possessed, sold, offered for sale, or
used in a violation of this section or in an attempt to commit or complicity in
the commission of a violation of this section.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of R.C. Chapter 2981, if a
person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section, an
attempt to violate this section, or complicity in a violation of this section,
the court involved shall declare that the goods described in division (D)(1)(a)
of this section and the personal property described in division (D)(1)(b) of
this section are contraband and are forfeited. Prior to the court’s entry of
judgment under Criminal Rule 32, the owner of a registered trademark or service
mark that is the subject to the counterfeit mark may recommend a manner in
which the forfeited goods and forfeited personal property should be disposed
of. If that owner makes a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition, the
court is not bound by the recommendation. If that owner makes a timely
recommendation of a manner of disposition, the court may include in its entry
of judgment an order that requires appropriate persons to dispose of the
forfeited goods and forfeited personal property in the recommended manner. If
the owner fails to make a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition or
if that owner makes a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition but the
court determines to not follow the recommendation, the court shall include in
its entry of judgement an order that requires the law enforcement agency that
employs the law enforcement officer who seized the forfeited goods or the
forfeited personal property to destroy them or cause their destruction.
   (E)   This section does not affect the rights of an owner of a trademark or
service mark, or the enforcement in a civil action or in administrative
proceedings of the rights of an owner or a trademark or service mark under the
Lanham Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1051 through 1127, as amended, the Trademark
Counterfeiting Act of 1984, being 18 U.S.C. § 2320, as amended, R.C. Chapter
1329, or another section of the Ohio Revised Code, or common law.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      COUNTERFEIT MARK.
         (a)   Except as provided in division (b) of this definition, the term
means a spurious trademark or a spurious service mark that satisfies both of
the following:
            1.   It is identical with or substantially indistinguishable from a
mark that is registered on the principal register in the United States Patent
and Trademark Office for the same goods or services as the goods or services to
which or in connection with which the spurious trademark or spurious service
mark is attached, affixed, or otherwise used, or from a mark that is registered
with the Secretary of State pursuant to R.C. §§ 1329.54 through 1329.67 for the
same goods or services as the goods or services to which or in connection with
which the spurious trademark or spurious service mark is attached, affixed, or
otherwise used, and the owner of the registration uses that registered
trademark, whether or not the offender knows that the mark is registered in a
manner described in this division (a)1.
            2.   Its use is likely to cause confusion or mistake or to deceive
other persons.
         (b)   The term does not include a mark or other designation that is
attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used in connection with goods or services
if the holder of the right to use the mark or other designation authorizes the
manufacturer, producer, or vendor of those goods or services to attach, affix,
or otherwise use the mark or other designation in connection with those goods
or services at the time of their manufacture, production or sale.
      CUMULATIVE SALES PRICE. Means the product of the lowest single unit sales
price charged or sought to be charged by an offender for goods to which or in
connection with which a counterfeit mark is attached, affixed, or otherwise
used or of the lowest single service transaction price charged or sought to be
charged by an offender for services in connection with which a counterfeit mark
is used, multiplied by the total number of those goods or services, whether or
not units of goods are sold or are in an offender’s possession, custody or
control.
      REGISTERED TRADEMARK OR SERVICE MARK. Means a trademark or service mark
that is registered in a manner described in division (a) of the definition of
“counterfeit mark.”
      SERVICE MARK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1329.54.
      TRADEMARK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1329.54.
(R.C. § 2913.34)
§ 131.30 DIMINISHING OR INTERFERING WITH FORFEITABLE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall destroy, damage, remove, or transfer property that is
subject to forfeiture or otherwise take any action in regard to property that
is subject to forfeiture with purpose to do any of the following:
      (1)   Prevent or impair the state’s or political subdivision’s lawful
authority to take the property into its custody or control under R.C. Chapter
2981 or to continue holding the property under its lawful custody or control;
      (2)   Impair or defeat the court’s continuing jurisdiction over the
person and property;
      (3)   Devalue property that the person knows, or has reasonable cause to
believe, is subject to forfeiture proceedings under R.C. Chapter 2981.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with or
diminishing forfeitable property. Except as otherwise provided in this division
(B), interference with or diminishing forfeitable property is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the property is $1,000 or more, interference
with or diminishing forfeitable property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2981.07)
§ 131.31 RECORDING CREDIT CARD, TELEPHONE OR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS.
   (A)   No person shall record or cause to be recorded either of the
following:
      (1)   A credit card account number of the other party to a transaction,
when a check, bill of exchange or other draft is presented for payment; or
      (2)   The telephone number or Social Security account number of the other
party to a transaction, when payment is made by credit card charge agreement,
check, bill of exchange or other draft.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a transaction, if all
of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number is recorded for a legitimate business purpose, including
collection purposes.
      (2)   The other party to the transaction consents to the recording of the
credit card account number, Social Security account number or telephone number.
      (3)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number that is recorded during the course of the transaction is not
disclosed to any third party for any purposes other than collection purposes
and is not used to market goods or services unrelated to the goods or services
purchased in the transaction.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prohibits the recording of the number of a
credit card account when given in lieu of a deposit to secure payment in the
event of default, loss, damage or other occurrence, or requires a person to
accept a check presented for payment, if the other party to the transaction
refuses to consent to the recording of the number of the party’s Social
Security account or license to operate a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 1349.17)
   (D)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1349.99)
§ 131.32 PROSECUTIONS FOR THEFT OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01,
that involves alleged tampering with a gas, electric, steam or water meter,
conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the utility,
proof that a meter, conduit or attachment of a utility has been tampered with
is prima facie evidence that the person who is obligated to pay for the service
rendered through the meter, conduit or attachment, and who is in possession or
control of the meter, conduit or attachment at the time the tampering occurred
has caused the tampering with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (B)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01,
that involves the alleged reconnection of a gas, electric, steam or water
meter, conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the
utility, proof that a meter, conduit or attachment disconnected by a utility
has been reconnected without the consent of the utility is prima facie evidence
that the person in possession or control of the meter, conduit or attachment at
the time of the reconnection has reconnected the meter, conduit or attachment
with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (C)   As used in this section:
      TAMPER. Means to interfere with, damage or bypass a utility meter,
conduit or attachment with the intent to impede the correct registration of a
meter or the proper functions of a conduit or attachment so as to reduce the
amount of utility service that is registered on the meter.
      UTILITY. Means any electric light company, gas company, natural gas
company, pipe-line company, water-works company or heating or cooling company,
as defined in R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), its lessees,
trustees or receivers, or any similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision.
(R.C. § 4933.18)
   (D)   Each electric light company, gas company, natural gas company,
pipeline company, waterworks company or heating or cooling company, as defined
by R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), or its lessees, trustees or
receivers, and each similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision, shall notify its customers, on an annual basis, that tampering
with or bypassing a meter constitutes a theft offense that could result in the
imposition of criminal sanctions.
(R.C. § 4933.19)
§ 131.33 MOTION PICTURE PIRACY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION. Means the capability of a device to
record or transmit a motion picture or any part of a motion picture by means of
any technology existing on, or developed after, March 9, 2004.
      FACILITY. Means a movie theater.
   (B)   No person, without the written consent of the owner or lessee of the
facility and of the licensor of the motion picture, shall knowingly operate an
audiovisual recording function of a device in a facility in which the motion
picture is being shown.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of motion
picture piracy, a misdemeanor of the first degree on the first offense and a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
   (D)   This section does not prohibit or restrict a lawfully authorized
investigative, law enforcement, protective, or intelligence gathering employee
or agent of the government of this state or a political subdivision of this
state, or of the federal government, when acting in an official capacity, from
operating an audiovisual recording function of a device in any facility in
which a motion picture is being shown.
   (E)   Division (B) of this section does not limit or affect the application
of any other prohibition in this code or the Ohio Revised Code. Any act that is
a violation of both division (B) of this section and another provision of this
code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, under the
other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, or under both this
section and the other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 2913.07)
§ 131.34 RAILROAD VANDALISM; CRIMINAL TRESPASS; INTERFERENCE WITH OPERATION OF
TRAIN; GRADE CROSSING DEVICE VANDALISM.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any object
at, onto, or in the path of, any railroad rail, railroad track, locomotive,
engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company while such vehicle
is on a railroad track.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall climb upon or into any
locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company when
it is on a railroad track.
   (C)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall disrupt, delay, or
prevent the operation of any train or other vehicle of a railroad company while
such vehicle is on a railroad track.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of railroad
vandalism. Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of criminal
trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other railroad vehicle.
Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of interference with
the operation of a train. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad vandalism; criminal trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or
other railroad vehicle; and interference with the operation of a train each is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of division (A), (B), or
(C) of this section causes serious physical harm to property or creates a
substantial risk of physical harm to any person, causes physical harm to any
person, or causes serious physical harm to any person, the violation is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   No person shall knowingly deface, damage, obstruct, remove, or
otherwise impair the operation of any railroad grade crossing warning signal or
other protective device, including any gate, bell, light, crossbuck, stop sign,
yield sign, advance warning sign, or advance pavement marking.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of railroad
grade crossing device vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the violation of division (E) of this section causes serious physical harm
to property or creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person,
causes physical harm to any person, or causes serious physical harm to any
person, railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.101)
§ 131.35 DESECRATION.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall purposely deface, damage,
pollute, or otherwise physically mistreat any of the following:
      (1)   Any public monument;
      (2)   Any historical or commemorative marker, or any structure, Indian
mound or earthwork, cemetery, thing, or site of great historical or
archaeological interest;
      (3)   A place of worship, its furnishings, or religious artifacts or
sacred texts within the place of worship or within the grounds upon which the
place of worship is located;
      (4)   A work of art or museum piece;
      (5)   Any other object of reverence or sacred devotion.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of desecration. A violation of
division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the second degree. A violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   As used in this section, “cemetery” means any place of burial and
includes burial sites that contain American Indian burial objects placed with
or containing American Indian human remains.
(R.C. § 2927.11)
§ 131.36 LOITERING ON SCHOOL GROUNDS.
   (A)   No person, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. on days when
school is scheduled to be in session, shall trespass, loiter, or remain in the
building or upon the grounds of any public or private school in the village at
which such person is neither enrolled nor employed unless such person shall
have entered such building or grounds in connection with duly authorized school
business or activity.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(Ord. 2023-045, passed 10-2-2023)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
132.01   Riot
   
132.02   Failure to disperse
   
132.03   Justifiable use of force to suppress riot
   
132.04   Disorderly conduct
   
132.05   Disturbing a lawful meeting
   
132.06   Misconduct at an emergency
   
132.07   Telecommunications harassment
   
132.08   Inducing panic
   
132.09   Making false alarms
   
132.10   Inciting to violence
   
132.11   Unlawful display of law enforcement emblem
   
132.12   Impersonating a peace officer
   
132.13   Safety of crowds attending live entertainment performances
   
132.14   Misconduct involving a public transportation system
   
132.15   Minor’s curfew/parental responsibility
   
132.16   Playing of radios, boom boxes, tape cassettes, disc players and the
like
   
132.17   Impeding public passage of an emergency service responder
Cross-reference:
   Personating an officer (fraud offense), see §
131.28
Statutory reference:
   Misuse of “Block Parent” or “McGruff House” symbol, see R.C. § 2917.46
§ 132.01 RIOT.
   (A)   No person shall participate with four or more others in a course of
disorderly conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance:
      (1)   With purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of a
misdemeanor, other than disorderly conduct;
      (2)   With purpose to intimidate a public official or employee into
taking or refraining from official action, or with purpose to hinder, impede,
or obstruct a function of government;
      (3)   With purpose to hinder, impede, or obstruct the orderly process of
administration or instruction at an educational institution, or to interfere
with or disrupt lawful activities carried on at the institution.
   (B)   No person shall participate with four or more others with purpose to
do an act with unlawful force or violence, even though the act might otherwise
be lawful.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of riot, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2917.03)
   (D)   For the purposes of prosecuting violations of this section, the
prosecution is not required to allege or prove that the offender expressly
agreed with four or more others to commit any act that constitutes a violation
this section prior to or while committing those acts.
(R.C. § 2917.031)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated riot, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2917.02
§ 132.02 FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   (A)   Where five or more persons are participating in a course of disorderly
conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, and there are other persons in the vicinity whose presence creates
the likelihood of physical harm to persons or property or of serious public
inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm, a law enforcement officer or other public
official may order the participants and the other persons to disperse. No
person shall knowingly fail to obey the order.
   (B)   Nothing in this section requires persons to disperse who are peaceably
assembled for a lawful purpose.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to disperse.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3) of this section,
failure to disperse is a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Failure to disperse is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the
failure to obey the order described in division (A) of this section creates the
likelihood of physical harm to persons or is committed at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
(R.C. § 2917.04)
§ 132.03 JUSTIFIABLE USE OF FORCE TO SUPPRESS RIOT.
   A law enforcement officer or firefighter engaged in suppressing a riot or in
protecting persons or property during a riot:
   (A)   Is justified in using force, other than deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters;
   (B)   Is justified in using force, including deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters whose conduct is creating a substantial risk of
serious physical harm to persons.
(R.C. § 2917.05)
§ 132.04 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly cause inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm to
another, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting, in threatening harm to persons or property,
or in violent or turbulent behavior;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise or an offensively coarse utterance,
gesture, or display, or communicating unwarranted and grossly abusive language
to any person;
      (3)   Insulting, taunting, or challenging another, under circumstances in
which that conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
      (4)   Hindering or preventing the movement of persons on a public street,
road, highway, or right-of-way, or to, from, within, or upon public or private
property, so as to interfere with the rights of others, and by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender;
      (5)   Creating a condition that is physically offensive to persons or
that presents a risk of physical harm to persons or property, by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender.
   (B)   No person while voluntarily intoxicated shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   In a public place or in the presence of two or more persons, engage
in conduct likely to be offensive or to cause inconvenience, annoyance, or
alarm to persons of ordinary sensibilities, which conduct the offender, if he
or she were not intoxicated, should know is likely to have such effect on
others;
      (2)   Engage in conduct or create a condition that presents a risk of
physical harm to himself, herself or another, or to the property of another.
   (C)   Violation of any statute or ordinance of which an element is operating
a motor vehicle, locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse is not a violation of division
(B) of this section.
   (D)   If a person appears to an ordinary observer to be intoxicated, it is
probable cause to believe that the person is voluntarily intoxicated for
purposes of division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disorderly conduct.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (E)(2) and (E)(3) of this
section, disorderly conduct is a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Disorderly conduct is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if any of
the following applies:
         (a)   The offender persists in disorderly conduct after reasonable
warning or request to desist.
         (b)   The offense is committed in the vicinity of a school or in a
school safety zone.
         (c)   The offense is committed in the presence of any law enforcement
officer, firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services
person, or other authorized person who is engaged in the person’s duties at the
scene of a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
         (d)   The offense is committed in the presence of any emergency
facility person who is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to three or more violations of division (B) of this section, R.C. § 2917.11(B),
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation
of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2925.01.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.11)
§ 132.05 DISTURBING A LAWFUL MEETING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to prevent or disrupt a lawful meeting,
procession, or gathering, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Do any act which obstructs or interferes with the due conduct of
the meeting, procession, or gathering.
      (2)   Make any utterance, gesture, or display which outrages the
sensibilities of the group.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disturbing a lawful
meeting. Except as otherwise provided in this division, disturbing a lawful
meeting is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Disturbing a lawful meeting is a
misdemeanor of the first degree if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The violation is committed with the intent to disturb or disquiet
any assemblage of people met for religious worship at a tax-exempt place of
worship, regardless of whether the conduct is within the place at which the
assemblage is held or is on the property on which that place is located and
disturbs the order and solemnity of the assemblage.
      (2)   The violation is committed with the intent to prevent, disrupt, or
interfere with a virtual meeting or gathering of people for religious worship,
through use of a computer, computer system, telecommunications device, or other
electronic device or system, or in any other manner.
   (C)   As used in this section:
      COMPUTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      COMPUTER SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      VIRTUAL MEETING OR GATHERING. A meeting or gathering by interactive video
conference or teleconference, or by a combination thereof.
(R.C. § 2917.12)
§ 132.06 MISCONDUCT AT AN EMERGENCY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Hamper the lawful operations of any law enforcement officer,
firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services person, or
other authorized person engaged in the person’s duties at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind;
      (2)   Hamper the lawful activities of any emergency facility person who
is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility;
      (3)   Fail to obey the lawful order of any law enforcement officer
engaged in the law enforcement officer’s duties at the scene of or in
connection with a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit access or deny
information to any news media representative in the lawful exercise of the news
media representative’s duties.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misconduct at an
emergency.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, misconduct at an
emergency is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (3)   If violation of this section creates a risk of physical harm to
persons or property, misconduct at an emergency is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.13)
§ 132.07 TELECOMMUNICATIONS HARASSMENT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a
telecommunication, or knowingly permit a telecommunication to be made from a
telecommunications device under the person’s control, to another, if the caller
does any of the following:
      (1)   Makes the telecommunication with purpose to harass, intimidate, or
abuse any person at the premises to which the telecommunication is made,
whether or not actual communication takes place between the caller and a
recipient;
      (2)   Describes, suggests, requests, or proposes that the caller, the
recipient of the telecommunication, or any other person engage in sexual
activity, and the recipient or another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made has requested, in a previous telecommunication or in
the immediate telecommunication, that the caller not make a telecommunication
to the recipient or to the premises to which the telecommunication is made;
      (3)   During the telecommunication, violates R.C. § 2903.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (4)   Knowingly states to the recipient of the telecommunication that the
caller intends to cause damage to or destroy public or private property, and
the recipient, any member of the recipient’s family, or any other person who
resides at the premises to which the telecommunication is made owns, leases,
resides, or works in, will at the time of the destruction or damaging be near
or in, has the responsibility of protecting, or insures the property that will
be destroyed or damaged;
      (5)   Knowingly makes the telecommunication to the recipient of the
telecommunication, to another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made, or to those premises, and the recipient or another
person at those premises previously has told the caller not to make a
telecommunication to those premises or to any persons at those premises;
      (6)   Knowingly makes any comment, request, suggestion, or proposal to
the recipient of the telecommunication that is threatening, intimidating,
menacing, coercive, or obscene with the intent to abuse, threaten, or harass
the recipient;
      (7)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly interrupts the
telecommunication service of any person;
      (8)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly transmits to any
person, regardless of whether the telecommunication is heard in its entirety,
any file, document, or other communication that prevents that person from using
the person’s telephone service or electronic communication device;
      (9)   Knowingly makes any false statement concerning the death, injury,
illness, disfigurement, reputation, indecent conduct, or criminal conduct of
the recipient of the telecommunication or family or household member of the
recipient with purpose to abuse, threaten, intimidate, or harass the recipient;
      (10)   Knowingly incites another person through a telecommunication or
other means to harass or participate in the harassment of a person;
      (11)   Knowingly alarms the recipient by making a telecommunication
without a lawful purpose at an hour or hours known to be inconvenient to the
recipient and in an offensive or repetitive manner.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall make or cause to be made a telecommunication or
permit a telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under
the person’s control, with purpose to abuse, threaten, or harass another
person.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly post a text or audio statement or an
image on an internet web site or web page for the purpose of abusing,
threatening, or harassing another person.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of telecommunications
harassment.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(5), (A)(6), (A)
(7), (A)(8), (A)(9), (A)(10), or (A)(11) or (B) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense and a felony on each
subsequent offense, which shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree on a
first offense and a felony on each subsequent offense, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of division (A)(4) of this section
results in economic harm of $1,000 or more, telecommunications harassment is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   No cause of action may be asserted in any court of this municipality
against any provider of a telecommunications service, interactive computer
service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or against any
officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, for any
injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises out of the
provider’s, officer’s, employee’s, or agent’s provision of information,
facilities, or assistance in accordance with the terms of a court order that is
issued in relation to the investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation
of this section. A provider of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or an
officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, is
immune from any civil or criminal liability for injury, death, or loss to
person or property that allegedly arises out of the provider’s, officer’s,
employee’s, or agent’s provision of information, facilities, or assistance in
accordance with the terms of a court order that is issued in relation to the
investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation of this section.
   (E)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person solely because the
person provided access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control, including
having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access or
connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection. In addition, any
person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control shall not be
liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the receipt or
transmission through its service of any information that the person believes
is, or will be sent, in violation of this section.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not create an affirmative duty
for any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method
of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control to block
the receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it
believes is, or will be sent, in violation of this section except as otherwise
provided by law.
      (3)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of this section or who knowingly
advertises the availability of material of that nature.
      (4)   A provider or user of an interactive computer service, as defined
in 47 U.S.C. § 230, shall neither be treated as the publisher or speaker of any
information provided by another information content provider, as defined in 47
U.S.C. § 230, nor held civilly or criminally liable for the creation or
development of information provided by another information content provider, as
defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230. Nothing in this division shall be construed to
protect a person from liability to the extent that the person developed or
created any content in violation of this section.
   (F)   Divisions (A)(5) to (A)(11) and (B)(2) of this section do not apply to
a person who, while employed or contracted by a newspaper, magazine, press
association, news agency, news wire service, cable channel or cable operator,
or radio or television station, is gathering, processing, transmitting,
compiling, editing, or disseminating information for the general public within
the scope of the person’s employment in that capacity or the person’s
contractual authority in that capacity.
   (G)   As used in divisions (A) through (D) of this section:
      CABLE OPERATOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
      CALLER. Means the person described in division (A) of this section who
makes or causes to be made a telecommunication or who permits a
telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under that
person’s control.
      ECONOMIC HARM. Means all direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary
harm suffered by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. The term
includes but is not limited to all of the following:
         (a)   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (b)   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (c)   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct;
         (d)   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division
(A)(9) of this section is committed:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse of
the recipient;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the recipient, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the recipient;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the recipient, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
recipient.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the recipient of the
telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division (A)(9) of this
section is committed is the other natural parent or is the putative other
natural parent.
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived with
the recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in
division (A)(9) of this section is committed in a common law marital
relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting with the recipient, or who otherwise
has cohabited with the recipient within five years prior to the date of the
alleged commission of the act in question.
      SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   (H)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person from making a
telecommunication to a debtor that is in compliance with the “Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act,” 15 U.S.C. § 1692, as amended, or the “Telephone
Consumer Protection Act,” 47 U.S.C. § 227, as amended.
(R.C. § 2917.21)
§ 132.08 INDUCING PANIC.
   (A)   No person shall cause the evacuation of any public place, or otherwise
cause serious public inconvenience or alarm, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Initiating or circulating a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false.
      (2)   Threatening to commit any offense of violence.
      (3)   Committing any offense, with reckless disregard of the likelihood
that its commission will cause serious public inconvenience or alarm.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any person
conducting an authorized fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inducing panic.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3), inducing panic is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If a violation of this section results in physical harm to any
person, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of $1,000 or more,
inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
public place involved in a violation of division (A)(1) is a school or an
institution of higher education, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a
purported, threatened or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, inducing
panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      BIOLOGICAL AGENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2917.33.
      ECONOMIC HARM. Means any of the following:
         (a)   All direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary harm suffered
by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. “Economic harm” as described
in this division includes but is not limited to all of the following:
            1.   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            2.   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            3.   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct;
            4.   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
         (b)   All costs incurred by the state or any political subdivision as
a result of, or in making any response to, the criminal conduct that
constituted the violation of this section or R.C. § 2917.32, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, including but not limited to all
costs so incurred by any law enforcement officers, firefighters, rescue
personnel, or emergency medical services personnel of the state or the
political subdivision.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSONNEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2133.21.
      INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A state university or college as defined in R.C. § 3345.12(A)
(1), community college, state community college, university branch, or
technical college;
         (b)   A private, nonprofit college, university or other post-secondary
institution located in this state that possesses a certificate of authorization
issued by the Chancellor of Higher Education pursuant to R.C. Chapter 1713;
         (c)   A post-secondary institution with a certificate of registration
issued by the State Board of Career Colleges and Schools pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 3332.
      SCHOOL. Means any school operated by a board of education or any school
for which the Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum standards
under R.C. § 3301.07, whether or not any instruction, extracurricular
activities, or training provided by the school is being conducted at the time a
violation of this section is committed.
      WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any weapon that is designed or intended to cause death or
serious physical harm through the release, dissemination, or impact of toxic or
poisonous chemicals, or other precursors;
         (b)   Any weapon involving a disease organism or biological agent;
         (c)   Any weapon that is designed to release radiation or
radioactivity at a level dangerous to human life;
         (d)   Any of the following, except to the extent that the item or
device in question is expressly excepted from the definition of “destructive
device” pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(4) and regulations issued under that
section:
            1.   Any explosive, incendiary, or poison gas bomb, grenade, rocket
having a propellant charge of more than four ounces, missile having an
explosive or incendiary charge of more than one-quarter ounce, mine, or similar
device;
            2.   Any combination of parts either designed or intended for use
in converting any item or device into any item or device described in division
(d)1. of this definition and from which an item or device described in that
division may be readily assembled.
(R.C. § 2917.31)
§ 132.09 MAKING FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to cause public inconvenience or alarm.
      (2)   Knowingly cause a false alarm of fire or other emergency to be
transmitted to or within any organization, public or private, for dealing with
emergencies involving a risk of physical harm to persons or property.
      (3)   Report to any law enforcement agency an alleged offense or other
incident within its concern, knowing that the offense did not occur.
      (4)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to impede the operation of a critical
infrastructure facility.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person conducting an authorized
fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making false alarms. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, making false alarms is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of
$1,000 or more, making false alarms is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a purported,
threatened, or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, making false alarms
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2911.21.
      ECONOMIC HARM and WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION. Have the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2917.31.
(R.C. § 2917.32)
§ 132.10 INCITING TO VIOLENCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly engage in conduct designed to urge or incite
another to commit any offense of violence when either of the following apply:
      (1)   The conduct takes place under circumstances that create a clear and
present danger that any offense of violence will be committed.
      (2)   The conduct proximately results in the commission of any offense of
violence.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inciting to violence. If
the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or incited to
commit is a misdemeanor, inciting to violence is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or
incited to commit is a felony, inciting to violence is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2917.01)
§ 132.11 UNLAWFUL DISPLAY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT EMBLEM.
   (A)   No person who is not entitled to do so shall knowingly display on a
motor vehicle the emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law
enforcement officers.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of the unlawful display of the
emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law enforcement
officers, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2913.441)
§ 132.12 IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Means an employee of the United States
who serves in a position the duties of which are primarily the investigation,
apprehension, or detention of individuals suspected or convicted of offenses
under the criminal laws of the United States.
      IMPERSONATE. Means to act the part of, assume the identity of, wear the
uniform or any part of the uniform of, or display the identification of a
particular person or of a member of a class of persons with purpose to make
another person believe that the actor is that particular person or is a member
of that class of persons.
      INVESTIGATOR OF THE BUREAU OF CRIMINAL IDENTIFICATION AND INVESTIGATION.
Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.11.
      PEACE OFFICER. A Sheriff, deputy sheriff, Marshal, deputy marshal, member
of the organized police department of a municipal corporation, or township
constable, who is employed by a political subdivision of this state; a member
of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under R.C. §
3735.31(D); a member of a police force employed by a regional transit authority
under R.C. § 306.35(Y); a state university law enforcement officer appointed
under R.C. § 3345.04; a veterans’ home police officer appointed under R.C. §
5907.02; a special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C. §
4582.04 or 4582.28; an officer, agent, or employee of the state or any of its
agencies, instrumentalities, or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute,
a duty to conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and
the authority to arrest violators is conferred, within limits of that statutory
duty and authority; or a state highway patrol trooper whose primary duties are
to preserve the peace, to protect life and property, and to enforce the laws,
ordinances, or rules of the state or any of its political subdivisions.
      PRIVATE POLICE OFFICER. Means any security guard, special police officer,
private detective, or other person who is privately employed in a police
capacity.
   (B)   No person shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or
federal law enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, by impersonating a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or
federal law enforcement officer, shall arrest or detain any person, search any
person, or search the property of any person.
   (D)   No person, with purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of an
offense, shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer, federal law
enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the municipality or the
state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation.
   (E)   No person shall commit a felony while impersonating a peace officer,
private police officer, federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or
employee of the municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of
Criminal Identification and Investigation.
   (F)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B) of this
section that the impersonation of the peace officer, private police officer,
federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the
municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation was for a lawful purpose.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the purpose of a
violation of division (D) of this section is to commit or facilitate the
commission of a felony, a violation of division (D) is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. Whoever violates division (E) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.51)
Cross-reference:
   Personating an officer (fraud offense), see §
131.28
§ 132.13 SAFETY OF CROWDS ATTENDING LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CONCERT. Means a musical performance of which the primary component is a
presentation by persons singing or playing musical instruments, that is
intended by its sponsors mainly, but not necessarily exclusively, for the
listening enjoyment of the audience, and that is held in a facility. The term
does not include any performance in which music is a part of the presentation
and the primary component of which is acting, dancing, a motion picture, a
demonstration of skills or talent other than singing or playing an instrument,
an athletic event, an exhibition or a speech.
      FACILITY. Means any structure that has a roof or partial roof and that
has walls that wholly surround the area on all sides, including but not limited
to a stadium, hall, arena, armory, auditorium, ballroom, exhibition hall,
convention center or music hall.
      LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCE. Means any live speech; any live musical
performance, including a concert; any live dramatic performance; any live
variety show; and any other live performance with respect to which the primary
intent of the audience can be construed to be viewing the performers. The term
does not include any form of entertainment with respect to which the person
purchasing a ticket routinely participates in amusements as well as views
performers.
      PERSON. Includes, in addition to an individual or entity specified in
R.C. § 1.59(C), any governmental entity.
      RESTRICTED ENTERTAINMENT AREA. Means any wholly or partially enclosed
area, whether indoors or outdoors, that has limited access through established
entrances or established turnstiles or similar devices.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or offer in return for a
donation, any ticket that is not numbered and that does not correspond to a
specific seat for admission to either of the following:
         (a)   A live entertainment performance that is not exempted under
division (D) of this section, that is held in a restricted entertainment area,
and for which more than 8,000 tickets are offered to the public;
         (b)   A concert that is not exempted under division (D) of this
section and for which more than 3,000 tickets are offered to the public.
      (2)   No person shall advertise any live entertainment performance as
described in division (B)(1)(a) of this section or any concert as described in
division (B)(1)(b) of this section, unless the advertisement contains the words
“Reserved Seats Only.”
   (C)   Unless exempted by division (D)(1) of this section, no person who owns
or operates any restricted entertainment area shall fail to open, maintain and
properly staff at least the number of entrances designated under division (E)
of this section for a minimum of 90 minutes prior to the scheduled start of any
live entertainment performance that is held in the restricted entertainment
area and for which more than 3,000 tickets are sold, offered for sale or
offered in return for a donation.
   (D)   (1)   A live entertainment performance, other than a concert, is
exempted from the provisions of divisions (B) and (C) of this section if both
of the following apply:
         (a)   The restricted entertainment area in which the performance is
held has at least eight entrances or, if both entrances and separate admission
turnstiles or similar devices are used, has at least eight turnstiles or
similar devices.
         (b)   The eight entrances or, if applicable, the eight turnstiles or
similar devices, are opened, maintained and properly staffed at least one hour
prior to the scheduled start of the performance.
      (2)   (a)   The officer responsible for public safety in the municipality
may, upon application of the sponsor of a concert covered by division (B) of
this section, exempt the concert from the provisions of that division if such
officer finds that the health, safety and welfare of the participants and
spectators would not be substantially affected by failure to comply with the
provisions of that division. In determining whether to grant an exemption, the
officer shall consider the following factors: the size and design of the
facility in which the concert is scheduled; the size, age and anticipated
conduct of the crowd expected to attend the concert; and the ability of the
sponsor to manage and control the expected crowd. If the sponsor of any concert
desires to obtain an exemption under this division, the sponsor shall apply to
the appropriate official on a form prescribed by that official. The official
shall issue an order that grants or denies the exemption within five days after
receipt of the application. The sponsor may appeal any order that denies an
exemption to the Court of Common Pleas of the county in which the facility is
located.
         (b)   If an official grants an exemption under division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, the official shall designate an on-duty law enforcement officer
to be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue
orders to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety
and welfare of the participants and spectators.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (D)(2) of this section, in the case of a
concert held in a facility located on the campus of an educational institution
covered by R.C. § 3345.04, a state university law enforcement officer appointed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Exercise the authority to grant exemptions provided by division
(D)(2)(a) of this section in lieu of an official designated in that division;
         (b)   If the officer grants an exemption under division (D)(3)(a) of
this section, designate an on-duty state university law enforcement officer to
be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue orders
to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the participants and spectators.
   (E)   (1)   Unless a live entertainment performance is exempted by division
(D)(1) of this section, the officer responsible for public safety within the
municipality shall designate, for purposes of division (C) of this section, the
minimum number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed at
each live entertainment performance so as to permit crowd control and reduce
congestion at the entrances. The designation shall be based on such factors as
the size and nature of the crowd expected to attend the live entertainment
performance, the length of time prior to the live entertainment performance
that crowds are expected to congregate at the entrances and the amount of
security provided at the restricted entertainment area.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (E)(1) of this section, a state university
law enforcement officer appointed pursuant to R.C. §§ 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall
designate the number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed
in the case of a live entertainment performance that is held at a restricted
entertainment area located on the campus of an educational institution covered
by R.C. § 3345.04.
   (F)   No person shall enter into any contract for a live entertainment
performance that does not permit or require compliance with this section.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to a live entertainment performance
held in a restricted entertainment area if one admission ticket entitles the
holder to view or participate in three or more different games, rides,
activities or live entertainment performances occurring simultaneously at
different sites within the restricted entertainment area and if the initial
admittance entrance to the restricted entertainment area, for which the ticket
is required, is separate from the entrance to any specific live entertainment
performance and an additional ticket is not required for admission to the
particular live entertainment performance.
      (2)   This section does not apply to a symphony orchestra performance, a
ballet performance, horse races, dances or fairs.
   (H)   This section does not prohibit the Legislative Authority from imposing
additional requirements, not in conflict with the section, for the promotion or
holding of live entertainment performances.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (B), (C) or (F) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If any individual suffers physical harm to
the individual’s person as a result of a violation of this section, the
sentencing court shall consider this factor in favor of imposing a term of
imprisonment upon the offender.
(R.C. § 2917.40)
§ 132.14 MISCONDUCT INVOLVING A PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM means a county
transit system operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.01 through 306.13, a
regional transit authority operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.30 through
306.71, or a regional transit commission operated in accordance with R.C. §§
306.80 through 306.90.
   (B)   No person shall evade the payment of the known fares of a public
transportation system.
   (C)   No person shall alter any transfer, pass, ticket or token of a public
transportation system with the purpose of evading the payment of fares or of
defrauding the system.
   (D)   No person shall do any of the following while in any facility or on
any vehicle of a public transportation system:
      (1)   Play sound equipment without the proper use of a private earphone;
      (2)   Smoke, eat or drink in any area where the activity is clearly
marked as being prohibited; or
      (3)   Expectorate upon a person, facility or vehicle.
   (E)   No person shall write, deface, draw or otherwise mark on any facility
or vehicle of a public transportation system.
   (F)   No person shall fail to comply with a lawful order of a public
transportation system police officer, and no person shall resist, obstruct or
abuse a public transportation police officer in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
   (G)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of
misconduct involving a public transportation system.
      (1)   A violation of division (B), (C), or (F) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (D) of this section is a minor misdemeanor
on a first offense. If a person previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of any division of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any division of this section, a
violation of division (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (E) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 75% of each fine paid to
satisfy a sentence imposed for a violation of any of the provisions of this
section shall be deposited into the treasury of the County and 25% shall be
deposited with the county transit board, regional transit authority or regional
transit commission that operates the public transportation system involved in
the violation, unless the Board of County Commissioners operates the public
transportation system, in which case 100% of each fine shall be deposited into
the treasury of the County.
(R.C. § 2917.41)
§ 132.15 MINOR’S CURFEW/PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Definitions.   For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DRIVE OR RIDE AIMLESSLY. To drive or to ride as a passenger in or upon
any public place by an unnecessarily circuitous route or to retrace the same
route.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately owned place of business carried on for a
profit, or any place of amusement or entertainment to which the public is
invited.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18 years.
      OFFICIAL VILLAGE TIME. Eastern Standard Time.
      OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing, or conducting any establishment; whenever used on any
clause prescribing a penalty, the term OPERATOR, as applied to associations or
partnerships, includes the members or partners thereof, and as applied to a
corporation, includes the officers thereof.
      PARENT. Any natural parent of a minor, a guardian, or any adult person 21
years of age or over responsible for the care and custody of a minor.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any public street, highway, road, alley, park, playground,
public building, or vacant lot.
      REMAIN. To loiter, idle, wander, stroll, or play in or upon.
   (B)   Curfew hours; prohibited conduct; exceptions.
      (1)   No minor shall remain in or upon any public place or any
establishment between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following
day, official village time, except that on Fridays and Saturdays, the hours
shall be from 12:00 midnight to 6:00 a.m.
      (2)   No minor enrolled in a public school shall remain in or upon any
public place or establishment during the school hours of the minor’s school.
      (3)   No minor shall drive or ride aimlessly in an automobile, truck, or
motorcycle between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day,
official village time, except that on Fridays and Saturdays, the hours shall be
from 12:00 midnight to 6:00 a.m.
      (4)   Any school, church, lodge, or other organization that desires to
hold any activity for minors under 18 years of age, and which activity shall
require such minors be out at a later hour than provided in this section, shall
make application to the Village Manager for permission to have the minors stay
out to a later hour. The application shall state the time the activity will
end, and the minors who attend such activity shall be required to be off the
streets and public places one hour after the activity is ended.
   (C)   Parental responsibilities - curfew. No parent shall knowingly permit
any minor to remain in or upon any public place or any establishment between
the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day, official village
time, except that on Fridays and Saturdays, the hours shall be from 12:00
midnight to 6:00 a.m.
   (D)   Owners’ and operators’ responsibilities. No operator of an
establishment, or his or her agents or employees, shall knowingly permit any
minor to remain upon the premises of such establishment between the hours of
10:30 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day, official village time, except
that on Fridays and Saturdays, the hours shall be from 12:00 midnight to 6:00
a.m.
   (E)   Parental responsibilities - general.
      (1)   (a)   A parent who has parental rights and responsibilities for the
care of a minor and is the residential parent and legal custodian of such
minor, a guardian who has custody of such minor, or other custodian of such
minor, is charged with the control of the minor and shall have the power to
exercise parental control and authority over the minor.
         (b)   It shall be unlawful for a parent, legal custodian, legal
guardian, or other persons lawfully charged with the care of a minor to fail to
supervise such minor.
         (c)   Parental responsibility to supervise such minor and exercise
parental control with regard to such minor includes, but is not limited to, the
following duties:
            1.   To keep illegal drugs out of the home and out of possession of
such minor, except those drugs duly prescribed by a licensed physician or other
authorized medical professional;
            2.   To keep firearms out of the possession of such minor, except
those used for hunting in accordance with state law and with knowledge and
supervision of a parent;
            3.   To exercise and have in place reasonable controls so as to
prevent such minor from maliciously or willfully damaging, defacing, or
destroying real or personal property belonging to others, including real or
personal property of the village;
            4.   To exercise and have in place reasonable controls so as to
prevent such minor from engaging in theft of property or keeping in his or her
possession property known to be stolen; and
            5.   To exercise and have in place reasonable controls so as to
prevent such minor from engaging in violent or assaultive behavior directed at
persons.
         (d)   An adjudication that a minor has been found a “delinquent
child”, as defined in R.C. § 2151.02 for criminal conduct other than that which
would lead to a “status” crime violation, such as a curfew or truancy
violation, or has been found guilty of a criminal conviction when such minor
has been tried as an adult, shall be prima facie evidence that the parent or
guardian failed to supervise the minor.
      (2)   This division (E) shall not apply to public children services
agencies as defined in R.C. § 2151.011, or to foster parents.
      (3)   In a prosecution of a person for failing to supervise a minor under
division (E)(1) of this section, it is an affirmative defense that the person:
         (a)   Is the victim of the act that brings the minor within the
jurisdiction of the Juvenile Court;
         (b)   Reported the act to the appropriate authorities; or
         (c)   Is charged with the parental control and authority over a minor
who is a “mentally retarded person” or a “developmentally disabled person” as
these terms are defined in R.C. § 5321.01.
   (F)   Defenses.
      (1)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the minor
was:
         (a)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
         (b)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         (c)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         (d)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         (e)   Involved in an emergency;
         (f)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
         (g)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the village, a civic
organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor, or going to or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an
official school, religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults
and sponsored by the village, a civic organization, or another similar entity
that takes responsibility for the minor;
         (h)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
         (i)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (D) that the owner,
operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the Police
Department that a minor was present on the premises of the establishment during
curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (G)   Enforcement and penalties.
      (1)   Any police officer who finds a minor violating any provisions of
division (B) of this section shall obtain information from such minor as to his
or her name, address, age, and the name of his or her parent or parents. The
minor shall thereupon be instructed to proceed to his or her home forthwith. A
written notice shall then be mailed by the Chief of Police to the parent or
parents of the minor advising of the violation of division (B).
      (2)   Any parent who shall violate any provision of division (C) of this
section, after having received notice of a prior violation as provided in
division (G)(1) of this section, shall be fined not more than $100, together
with costs.
      (3)   Any operator of an establishment, and any agents or employees of
any operator, who shall violate the provisions of division (D) of this section
shall be fined not more than $100, together with costs.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of
failing to supervise a minor.
         (b)   Upon first conviction, the offender shall be subject to a fine
of up to $250 and/or ordered to perform community service.
         (c)   The fine and/or community service will be suspended if the
offender completes a parenting training class designated by the village. In
addition to any fine or order imposed pursuant to this section, the court may
order the offender to make restitution to any victim of the minor’s conduct.
         (d)   The amount of restitution shall not exceed the statutory
liability for parents established in R.C. § 3109.09 and R.C § 3109.10.
      (5)   Each violation of any provision of this section shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 450, passed 10-16-1973; Ord. 97-139, passed 6-16-1997)
§ 132.16 PLAYING OF RADIOS, BOOM BOXES, TAPE CASSETTES, DISC PLAYERS AND THE
LIKE.
   (A)   The playing of radios, boom boxes, tape cassettes, disc players, or
any other sound devices is prohibited as follows.
      (1)   No person shall play any radio, music player such as a “boom box,”
tape cassette, disc player or television, audio system or musical instrument,
or any other type of sound device upon any public road, street, highway, or
private property in the village in a manner or at a volume as to disturb the
quiet, comfort, or repose of other persons. An exception is made for organized
events which have received a valid permit from the village.
      (2)   No person shall play any radio, music player such as a “boom box,”
tape cassette, disc player or television, audio system or musical instrument,
or any other type of sound device in a manner or at a volume as to disturb the
quiet, comfort, or repose of neighboring inhabitants or at a volume which is
plainly audible to persons other than those who are in the dwelling unit in
which such device or instrument is played and who are voluntary listeners
thereto.
      (3)   The following penalty applies for this division (A):
         (a)   First offense: a fine of up to $100;
         (b)   Second offense: a fine of up to $200; and
         (c)   Third offense and thereafter: a fine of up to $300 and three
days in jail.
      (4)   Upon conviction for a violation of this division (A), the sound
device being used during the commission of the offense shall be subject to
seizure and payment of a judgment.
   (B)   Playing of radios, boom boxes, tape cassettes, disc players, or any
other sound devices in motor vehicles is prohibited as follows.
      (1)    No person shall play any radio, music player, or an audio system
in a motor vehicle at such volume as to disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose
of other persons or at a volume which is plainly audible at a distance of 50
feet from the vehicle.
      (2)   The following penalty applies for this division (B):
         (a)   First offense: a fine of up to $200;
         (b)   Second offense: a fine of up to $400; and
         (c)   Third offense and thereafter: a fine of up to $600.
      (3)   Upon conviction for a violation of this division (B), the sound
device being used during the commission of the offense shall be subject to
seizure and payment of a judgment.
(Ord. 96-166, passed 10-21-1996)
§ 132.17 IMPEDING PUBLIC PASSAGE OF AN EMERGENCY SERVICE RESPONDER.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly obstruct any
highway, street, sidewalk, or any other public passage in such a manner as to
render the highway, street, sidewalk, or passage impassable without
unreasonable inconvenience or hazard if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The obstruction prevents an emergency vehicle from accessing a
highway or street, prevents an emergency service responder from responding to
an emergency, or prevents an emergency vehicle or an emergency service
responder from having access to an exit from an emergency.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a request or order from an emergency service
responder to remove or cease the obstruction, the person refuses to remove or
cease the obstruction.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not limit or affect the application
of R.C. § 2921.31 or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code. Any conduct
that is a violation of division (A) of this section and that also is a
violation of R.C. § 2921.31 or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code may
be prosecuted under this section, the other section of the Ohio Revised Code,
or both sections.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawfully impeding public
passage of an emergency service responder, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, EMERGENCY SERVICE RESPONDER has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 2903.13.
(R.C. § 2917.14)
CHAPTER 133: SEX OFFENSES
Section
   
133.01   Definitions
   
133.02   Unlawful sexual conduct with a minor
   
133.03   Sexual imposition
   
133.04   Public indecency
   
133.05   Voyeurism
   
133.06   Polygraph examinations for victims: restrictions on use
   
133.07   Procuring; engagement in sexual activity for hire
   
133.08   Soliciting; loitering to engage in
   
133.09   Prostitution
   
133.10   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.11   Displaying matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.12   Deception to obtain matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.13   Rules of evidence
   
133.14   Declaratory judgment
   
133.15   Injunction; abatement of nuisance
   
133.16   Unlawful operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct
   
133.17   Juveniles on the premises of adult entertainment establishments
prohibited
   
133.18   Sexually oriented businesses; illegal operation and activity
   
133.19   Unlawful advertising of massage
   
133.20   Nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images
 
   
133.99   Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators;
registration
Cross-reference:
   Sexual conduct with an animal, see §
90.37
Statutory reference:
   Assistance to victims of sexual assault, see R.C. §§ 2907.28 et seq.
   Child victim, disposition of, see R.C. § 2945.481
   Suppression of information at trial, see R.C. § 2907.11
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   HARMFUL TO JUVENILES. That quality of any material or performance describing
or representing nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement, or sado-masochistic
abuse in any form to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, appeals to
the prurient interest of juveniles in sex.
      (2)   The material or performance is patently offensive to prevailing
standards in the adult community as a whole with respect to what is suitable
for juveniles.
      (3)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, lacks
serious literary, artistic, political, and scientific value for juveniles.
   JUVENILE. Any unmarried person under 18 years of age.
   MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, poster, print, picture,
figure, image, description, motion picture film, video cassette, laser disc,
phonograph record, cassette tape, compact disc, or other tangible thing capable
of arousing interest through sight, sound, or touch and includes an image or
text appearing on a computer monitor, television screen, liquid crystal
display, or similar display device or an image or text recorded on a computer
hard disk, computer floppy disk, compact disk, magnetic tape, or similar data
storage device.
   MENTAL HEALTH CLIENT OR PATIENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.51.
   MENTAL HEALTH PROFESSIONAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.115.
   MINOR. A person under the age of 18.
   NUDITY. The showing, representation, or depiction of human male or female
genitals, pubic area, or buttocks with less than a full, opaque covering, or of
a female breast with less than a full, opaque covering of any portion thereof
below the top of the nipple, or of covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
   OBSCENE. When considered as a whole, and judged with reference to ordinary
adults or, if it is designed for sexual deviates or other specially susceptible
group, judged with reference to that group, any material or performance is
“obscene” if any of the following apply:
      (1)   Its dominant appeal is to prurient interest.
      (2)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
sexual activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, or nudity in a way that tends
to represent human beings as mere objects of sexual appetite.
      (3)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
bestiality or extreme or bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality.
      (4)   Its dominant tendency is to appeal to scatological interest by
displaying or depicting human bodily functions of elimination in a way that
inspires disgust or revulsion in persons with ordinary sensibilities, without
serving any genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or artistic
purpose.
      (5)   It contains a series of displays or descriptions of sexual
activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, nudity, bestiality, extreme or
bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality, or human bodily functions of
elimination, the cumulative effect of which is a dominant tendency to appeal to
prurient or scatological interest, when the appeal to such an interest is
primarily for its own sake or for commercial exploitation, rather than
primarily for a genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or
artistic purpose.
   PERFORMANCE. Any motion picture, preview, trailer, play, show, skit, dance,
or other exhibition performed before an audience.
   PLACE WHERE A PERSON HAS A REASONABLE EXPECTATION OF PRIVACY. A place where
a reasonable person would believe that the person could fully disrobe in
private.
   PRIVATE AREA. The genitals, pubic area, buttocks, or female breast below the
top of the areola, where nude or covered by an undergarment.
   PROSTITUTE. A male or female who promiscuously engages in sexual activity
for hire, regardless of whether the hire is paid to the prostitute or to
another.
   SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person or the
condition of being fettered, bound, or otherwise physically restrained.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Sexual conduct or sexual contact, or both.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Vaginal intercourse between a male and female; anal
intercourse, fellatio, and cunnilingus between persons regardless of sex; and,
without privilege to do so, the insertion, however slight, of any part of the
body or any instrument, apparatus, or other object into the vaginal or anal
opening of another. Penetration, however slight, is sufficient to complete
vaginal or anal intercourse.
   SEXUAL CONTACT. Any touching of an erogenous zone of another, including
without limitation the thigh, genitals, buttock, pubic region, or, if the
person is a female, a breast, for the purpose of sexually arousing or
gratifying either person.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals when in a
state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   SPOUSE. A person married to an offender at the time of an alleged offense,
except that such person shall not be considered the spouse when any of the
following apply:
      (1)   When the parties have entered into a written separation agreement
pursuant to R.C. § 3103.06.
      (2)   When an action is pending between the parties for annulment,
divorce, dissolution of marriage, or legal separation.
      (3)   In the case of an action for legal separation, after the effective
date of the judgment for legal separation.
(R.C. § 2907.01)
§ 133.02 UNLAWFUL SEXUAL CONDUCT WITH A MINOR.
   (A)   No person who is 18 years of age or older shall engage in sexual
conduct with another who is not the spouse of the offender, when the offender
knows the other person is 13 years of age or older but less than 16 years of
age, or the offender is reckless in that regard.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful sexual conduct
with a minor.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2), unlawful sexual
conduct with a minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if
the offender is less than four years older than the other person, unlawful
sexual conduct with a minor is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of R.C. §§ 2907.02, 2907.03 or 2907.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or a violation of former R.C. § 2907.12, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, unlawful sexual conduct with a
minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.04)
§ 133.03 SEXUAL IMPOSITION.
   (A)   No person shall have sexual contact with another, not the spouse of
the offender; cause another, not the spouse of the offender, to have sexual
contact with the offender; or cause two or more other persons to have sexual
contact when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The offender knows that the sexual contact is offensive to the
other person, or one of the other persons, or is reckless in that regard.
      (2)   The offender knows that the other person’s, or one of the other
person’s ability to appraise the nature of or control the offender’s or
touching person’s conduct is substantially impaired.
      (3)   The offender knows that the other person, or one of the other
persons, submits because of being unaware of the sexual contact.
      (4)   The other person, or one of the other persons, is 13 years of age
or older but less than 16 years of age, whether or not the offender knows the
age of the person, and the offender is at least 18 years of age and four or
more years older than the other person.
      (5)   The offender is a mental health professional, the other person or
one of the other persons is a mental health client or patient of the offender,
and the offender induces the other person who is the client or patient to
submit by falsely representing to the other person who is the client or patient
that the sexual contact is necessary for mental health treatment purposes.
   (B)   No person shall be convicted of a violation of this section solely
upon the victim’s testimony unsupported by other evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of sexual imposition, a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2907.02,
2907.03, 2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any combination of those
sections, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree and,
notwithstanding the range of jail terms prescribed in R.C. § 2929.24, the court
may impose on the offender a definite jail term of not more than one year.
(R.C. § 2907.06)
Statutory reference:
   Gross sexual imposition, felony, see R.C. § 2907.05
   Notice to licensing board or agency upon indictment, conviction or guilty
plea of mental health professional, see R.C. §§ 2907.17 and 2907.18
§ 133.04 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following, under
circumstances in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and
affront others who are in the person’s physical proximity and who are not
members of the person’s household:
      (1)   Expose the persons’s private parts.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following, under circumstances
in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and affront another
person who is in the person’s physical proximity, who is a minor, and who is
not the spouse of the offender:
      (1)   Engage in masturbation.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (4)   Expose the person’s private parts with the purpose of personal
sexual arousal or gratification or to lure the minor into sexual activity.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public indecency and
shall be punished as provided in divisions (C)(2), (C)(3), (C)(4), and (C)(5)
of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(2), a violation
of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the third degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by the
offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more
violations of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the second degree or, if any person who was likely to view
and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if any person who was
likely to view and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(4), a violation
of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(5), a violation
of division (B)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of
this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (B)(4) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   If either of the following applies, the court may determine at
the time of sentencing whether to classify the offender as a tier I sex
offender/child-victim offender for a violation of division (B)(4) of this
section:
         (a)   The offender is less than ten years older than the other person.
         (b)   The offender is ten or more years older than the other person
and the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any
violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance.
      (2)   If the offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (B)(4) of this section, is ten or more years older than the other
person, and previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the court shall issue an order at the time of sentencing that
classifies the offender as a tier I sex offender/child- victim offender subject
to registration under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and 2950.06.
(R.C. § 2907.09)
   (E)   A mother is entitled to breast-feed her baby in any location of a
place of public accommodation, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, wherein the mother
otherwise is permitted.
(R.C. § 3781.55)
§ 133.05 VOYEURISM.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another, to spy or eavesdrop upon another.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly commit trespass or otherwise secretly or
surreptitiously videotape, film, photograph, broadcast, stream, or otherwise
record another person, in a place where a person has a reasonable expectation
of privacy, for the purpose of viewing the private areas of that person.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly commit trespass or otherwise secretly or
surreptitiously videotape, film, photograph, broadcast, stream, or otherwise
record a minor, in a place where a person has a reasonable expectation of
privacy, for the purpose of viewing the private areas of the minor.
   (D)   No person shall secretly or surreptitiously videotape, film,
photograph, or otherwise record another person above, under, or through the
clothing being worn by that other person for the purpose of viewing the body
of, or the undergarments worn by, that other person.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of voyeurism.
      (1)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (4)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.08)
§ 133.06 POLYGRAPH EXAMINATIONS FOR VICTIMS: RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   (A)   (1)   A peace officer, prosecutor, other public official, defendant,
defendant's attorney, alleged juvenile offender, or alleged juvenile offender's
attorney shall not ask or require a victim of an alleged sex offense to submit
to a polygraph examination as a condition for proceeding with the investigation
or prosecution of the alleged sex offense.
      (2)   The refusal of the victim of an alleged sex offense to submit to a
polygraph examination shall not prevent the investigation of the alleged sex
offense, the filing of criminal charges with respect to the alleged sex
offense, or the prosecution of the alleged perpetrator of the alleged sex
offense.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      ALLEGED JUVENILE OFFENDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2930.01.
      PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.51.
      POLYGRAPH EXAMINATION. Means any mechanical or electrical instrument or
device of  any type used or allegedly used to examine, test, or question an
individual for the purpose of determining the individual’
      PROSECUTION. Means the prosecution of criminal charges in a criminal
prosecution or the prosecution of a delinquent child complaint in a delinquency
proceeding.
      PROSECUTOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
      PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 117.01.
      SEX OFFENSE. Means a violation of any provision of §§ 133.02 to 133.05 or
R.C. §§ 2907.02 to 2907.09.
(R.C. § 2907.10)
§ 133.07 PROCURING; ENGAGEMENTS IN SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE.
   (A)   Procuring.
      (1)   No person, knowingly and for gain, shall do either of the
following:
         (a)   Entice or solicit another to patronize a prostitute or brothel;
         (b)   Procure a prostitute for another to patronize, or take or direct
another at the other’s request to any place for the purpose of patronizing a
prostitute.
      (2)   No person, having authority or responsibility over the use of
premises, shall knowingly permit the premises to be used for the purpose of
engaging in sexual activity for hire.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(1)(a) or(A)(1)(b) of this section is
guilty of procuring. Except as otherwise provided in this division, procuring
is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the prostitute who is procured,
patronized, or otherwise involved in a violation of division (A)(1)(b) of this
section is under 18 years of age at the time of the violation, regardless of
whether the offender who violates division(A)(1)(b) of this section knows the
prostitute’s age, or if a prostitute who engages in sexual activity for hire in
premises used in violation of division(A)(2) of this section is under 18 years
of age at the time of the violation, regardless of whether the offender who
violates division(A)(2) of this section knows the prostitute’s age, procuring
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.23)
   (B)   Engagement in sexual activity for hire.
      (1)   As used in this division (B):
         PERSON WITH A DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITY. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2905.32.
         SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE. An implicit or explicit agreement to provide
sexual activity in exchange for anything of value paid to the person engaging
in such sexual activity, to any person trafficking that person, or to any
person associated with either such person.
      (2)   No person shall recklessly induce, entice, or procure another to
engage in sexual activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything
of value to the other person.
      (3)   No person shall recklessly induce, entice, or procure another to
engage in sexual activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything
of value to the other person if the other person is a person with a
developmental disability and the offender knows or has reasonable cause to
believe that the other person is a person with a developmental disability.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is guilty of
engaging in prostitution, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Whoever violates
division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of engaging in prostitution with a
person with a developmental disability, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. In sentencing an offender under this division for a
violation of division (B)(2) of this section, the court shall require the
offender to attend an education or treatment program aimed at preventing
persons from inducing, enticing, or procuring another to engage in sexual
activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything of value to the
other person. Notwithstanding the fine specified in R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a) for
a misdemeanor of the first degree, in sentencing an offender under this
division for a violation of division (B)(2) of this section, the court may
impose upon the offender a fine of not more than $1,500.
(R.C. § 2907.231)
§ 133.08 SOLICITING; LOITERING TO ENGAGE IN.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly solicit another to engage in sexual activity
for hire in exchange for the person receiving anything of value from the other
person.
   (B)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (A) of this section.
   (C)   As used in division (A) of this section, SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE
means an implicit or explicit agreement to provide sexual activity in exchange
for anything of value paid to the person engaging in such sexual activity, to
any person trafficking that person, or to any person associated with either
such person.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
soliciting. Soliciting is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of engaging
in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.24)
   (E)   No person, with purpose to solicit another to engage in sexual
activity for hire and while in or near a public place, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Beckon to, stop or attempt to stop another;
      (2)   Engage or attempt to engage another in conversation;
      (3)   Stop or attempt to stop the operator of a vehicle or approach a
stationary vehicle;
      (4)   If the offender is the operator of or a passenger in a vehicle,
stop, attempt to stop, beckon to, attempt to beckon to, or entice another to
approach or enter the vehicle of which the offender is the operator or in which
the offender is the passenger;
      (5)   Interfere with the free passage of another.
   (F)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (E) of this section.
   (G)   As used in division (E) of this section:
      PUBLIC PLACE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A street, road, highway, thoroughfare, bikeway, walkway,
sidewalk, bridge, alley, alleyway, plaza, park, driveway, parking lot or
transportation facility.
         (b)   A doorway or entrance way to a building that fronts on a place
described in division (a) of this definition.
         (c)   A place not described in division (a) or (b) of this definition
that is open to the public.
      VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (H)   (1)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.241)
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.09 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   No person shall engage in sexual activity for hire.
   (B)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in sexual activity for hire.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
prostitution, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of engaging
in prostitution after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.25)
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.10 DISSEMINATING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, with knowledge of its character or content, shall
recklessly do any of following:
      (1)   Directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit,
rent, or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles;
      (2)   Directly offer or agree to sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law
enforcement officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement
officers posing as juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or
harmful to juveniles;
      (3)   While in the physical proximity of the juvenile or law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, allow any juvenile or law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile to review or peruse any material or view any live
performance that is harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section
that involves material or a performance that is harmful to juveniles but not
obscene:
      (1)   The defendant is the parent, guardian, or spouse of the juvenile
involved.
      (2)   The juvenile involved, at the time of the conduct in question, was
accompanied by his or her parent or guardian who, with knowledge of its
character, consented to the material or performance being furnished or
presented to the juvenile.
      (3)   The juvenile exhibited to the defendant or his or her agent or
employee a draft card, driver’s license, birth record, marriage license, or
other official or apparently official document purporting to show that the
juvenile was 18 years of age or over or married, and the person to whom the
document was exhibited did not otherwise have reasonable cause to believe that
the juvenile was under the age of 18 and unmarried.
   (C)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section,
involving material or a performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles,
that the material or performance was furnished or presented for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, governmental, judicial, or other proper
purpose, by a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher,
librarian, clergy, prosecutor, judge, or other proper person.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, mistake of
age is not a defense to a charge under this section.
   (D)   (1)   A person directly sells, delivers, furnishes, disseminates,
provides, exhibits, rents, or presents or directly offers or agrees to sell,
deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present material or a
performance to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section by means of an electronic method of
remotely transmitting information if the person knows or has reason to believe
that the person receiving the information is a juvenile or the group of persons
receiving the information are juveniles.
      (2)   A person remotely transmitting information by means of a method of
mass distribution does not directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present or directly offer or agree to sell, deliver,
furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present the material or
performance in question to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section if either of the following applies:
         (a)   The person has inadequate information to know or have reason to
believe that a particular recipient of the information or offer is a juvenile.
         (b)   The method of mass distribution does not provide the person the
ability to prevent a particular recipient from receiving the information.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disseminating matter
harmful to juveniles. If the material or performance involved is harmful to
juveniles except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the material or performance
involved is obscene, violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.31)
   (F)   Presumptions, notice and defense.
      (1)   An owner or manager, or agent or employee of an owner or manager,
of a bookstore, newsstand, theater, or other commercial establishment engaged
in selling material or exhibiting performances, who, in the course of business
does any of the acts prohibited by this section is presumed to have knowledge
of the character of the material or performance involved if the owner, manager,
or agent or employee of the owner or manager has actual notice of the nature of
such material or performance, whether or not the owner, manager, or agent or
employee of the owner or manager has precise knowledge of its contents.
      (2)   Without limitation on the manner in which such notice may be given,
actual notice of the character of material or a performance may be given in
writing by the chief legal officer of the municipality. Such notice, regardless
of the manner in which it is given, shall identify the sender, identify the
material or performance involved, state whether it is obscene or harmful to
juveniles, and bear the date of such notice.
      (3)   This §
133.10 does not apply to a motion picture operator or projectionist acting
within the scope of employment as an employee of the owner or manager of the
theater or other place for the showing of motion pictures to the general
public, and having no managerial responsibility or financial interest in the
operator’s or projectionist’s place of employment, other than wages.
      (4)   (a)   The provisions of §§
133.10,
133.11 and
133.12(A) do not apply to a person solely because the person provided access or
connection to or from an electronic method of remotely transferring information
not under that person’s control, including having provided capabilities that
are incidental to providing access or connection to or from the electronic
method of remotely transferring the information, and that do not include the
creation of the content of the material that is the subject of the access or
connection.
         (b)   Division (F)(4)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who conspires with an entity actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of §
133.10,
133.11, or
133.12 or who knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
         (c)   Division (F)(4)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who provides access or connection to an electronic method of remotely
transferring information that is engaged in the violation of §
133.10,
133.11, or
133.12 and that contain content that person has selected and introduced into
the electronic method of remotely transferring information or content over
which that person exercises editorial control.
      (5)   An employer is not guilty of a violation of §
133.10,
133.11, or
133.12 based on the actions of an employee or agent of the employer unless the
employee’s or agent’s conduct is within the scope of the employee’s or agent’s
employment or agency, and the employer does either of the following:
         (a)   With knowledge of the employee’s or agent’s conduct, the
employer authorizes or ratifies the conduct.
         (b)   The employer recklessly disregards the employee’s or agent’s
conduct.
      (6)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under §
133.10 or
133.11 as the section applies to an image transmitted through the internet or
other electronic method of remotely transmitting information that the person
charged with violating the section has taken, in good faith, reasonable,
effective, and appropriate actions under the circumstances to restrict or
prevent access by juveniles to material that is harmful to juveniles, including
any method that is feasible under available technology.
(R.C. § 2907.35)
§ 133.11 DISPLAYING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person who has custody, control, or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character or content of the material
involved, shall display at the establishment any material that is harmful to
juveniles and that is open to view by juveniles as part of the invited general
public.
   (B)   It is not a violation of division (A) of this section if the material
in question is displayed by placing it behind “blinder racks” or similar
devices that cover at least the lower two-thirds of the material, if the
material in question is wrapped or placed behind the counter, or if the
material in question otherwise is covered or located so that the portion that
is harmful to juveniles is not open to the view of juveniles.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of displaying matter harmful
to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day during which the
offender is in violation of this section constitutes a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2907.311)
Cross-reference:
   Presumptions, notice and defense, see §
133.10(F)
§ 133.12 DECEPTION TO OBTAIN MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of enabling a juvenile to obtain any
material or gain admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles,
shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is the parent, guardian, or spouse
of the juvenile.
      (2)   Furnish the juvenile with any identification or document purporting
to show that the juvenile is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (B)   No juvenile, for the purpose of obtaining any material or gaining
admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles, shall do either of
the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is 18 years of age or over or
married.
      (2)   Exhibit any identification or document purporting to show that he
or she is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of deception to obtain matter
harmful to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the second degree. A juvenile who
violates division (B) of this section shall be adjudged an unruly child, with
the disposition of the case as may be appropriate under R.C. Chapter 2151.
(R.C. § 2907.33)
Cross-reference:
   Presumptions, notice and defense, see §
133.10(F)
Statutory reference:
   Juvenile Court, see R.C. Chapter 2151
§ 133.13 RULES OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a place is a
brothel, evidence as to the reputation of such place and as to the reputation
of the persons who inhabit or frequent it is admissible on the question of
whether such place is or is not a brothel.
   (B)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a person is a
prostitute, evidence as to the reputation of such person is admissible on the
question of whether such person is or is not a prostitute.
   (C)   In any prosecution for a violation of §§
133.07 through
133.09, proof of a prior conviction of the accused of any such offense or
substantially equivalent offense is admissible in support of the charge.
   (D)   The prohibition contained in R.C. § 2317.02(D) against testimony by a
husband or wife concerning communications between them does not apply, and the
accused’s spouse may testify concerning any such communication in any of the
following cases:
      (1)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
133.07 and the spouse testifying was the prostitute involved in the offense or
the person who used the offender’s premises to engage in sexual activity for
hire;
      (2)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
133.08(A) or §
133.09.
(R.C. § 2907.26)
§ 133.14 DECLARATORY JUDGMENT.
   (A)   Without limitation on the persons otherwise entitled to bring an
action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2721, involving the
same issue, the following persons have standing to bring a declaratory judgment
action to determine whether particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles:
      (1)   The chief legal officer of the municipality if and when there is
reasonable cause to believe that R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be
violated;
      (2)   Any person who, pursuant to R.C. § 2907.35(B) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, has received notice in writing from the chief
legal officer stating that particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   Any party to an action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to division
(A) of this section is entitled, upon the party’s request, to trial on the
merits within five days after joinder of the issues, and the court shall render
judgment within five days after trial is concluded.
   (C)   An action for a declaratory judgement pursuant to division (A) of this
section shall not be brought during the pendency of any civil action or
criminal prosecution when the character of the particular materials or
performances involved is at issue in the pending case, and either of the
following applies:
      (1)   Either of the parties to the action for a declaratory judgment is a
party to the pending case;
      (2)   A judgment in the pending case will necessarily constitute res
judicata as to the character of the materials or performances involved.
   (D)   A civil action or criminal prosecution in which the character of
particular materials or performances is at issue, brought during the pendency
of an action for a declaratory judgment involving the same issue, shall be
stayed during the pendency of the action for a declaratory judgment.
   (E)   The fact that a violation of R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, occurs prior to a judicial
determination of the character of the material or performance involved in the
violation does not relieve the offender of criminal liability for the
violation, even though prosecution may be stayed pending the judicial
determination.
(R.C. § 2907.36)
§ 133.15 INJUNCTION; ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Where it appears that R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be
violated, the chief legal officer of the municipality may bring an action to
enjoin the violation. The defendant, upon his or her request, is entitled to
trial on the merits within five days after the joinder of the issues, and the
court shall render judgment within five days after the trial is concluded.
   (B)   Premises used or occupied for repeated violations of R.C. § 2907.31 or
R.C. § 2907.32, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2907.37)
Statutory reference:
   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles, felony, see R.C. § 2907.31
   Pandering obscenity, felony, see R.C. § 2907.32
§ 133.16 UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF VIEWING BOOTHS DEPICTING SEXUAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Means an entity that is open to the public and
to which either of the following applies:
         (a)   It has a substantial or significant portion of its stock in
trade of the sale, rental, or viewing of visual materials or performances
depicting sexual conduct.
         (b)   It has as a principal business purpose the sale, rental, or
viewing of visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct.
      VISUAL MATERIALS OR PERFORMANCES. Means films, videos, CD-ROM discs,
streaming video, or other motion pictures.
   (B)   No person who has custody, control, or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character of the visual material or
performance involved, shall knowingly permit the use of, or offer the use of,
viewing booths, stalls, or partitioned portions of a room located in the
commercial establishment for the purpose of viewing visual materials or
performances depicting sexual conduct unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The inside of each booth, stall, or partitioned room is visible
from, and at least one side of each booth, stall, or partitioned room is open
to, a continuous and contiguous main aisle or hallway that is open to the
public areas of the commercial establishment and is not obscured by any
curtain, door, or other covering or enclosure.
      (2)   No booth, stall, or partitioned room is designed, constructed,
pandered, or allowed to be used for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating
nudity or sexual activity on the part of or between patrons or members of the
public, and no booth, stall, or partitioned room has any aperture, hole, or
opening for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating nudity or sexual
activity.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
either of the following applies to the involved visual materials or
performances:
      (1)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct are
disseminated or presented for a bona fide medical, scientific, educational,
religious, governmental, judicial, or other proper purpose and by or to a
physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher, person pursuing bona
fide studies or research, librarian, member of the clergy, prosecutor, judge,
or other person having a proper interest in the visual materials or
performances.
      (2)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct,
taken as a whole, would be found by a reasonable person to have serious
literary, artistic, political, or scientific value or are presented or
disseminated in good faith for a serious literary, artistic, political, or
scientific purpose and are not pandered for their prurient appeal.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting unlawful
operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2907.38)
§ 133.17 JUVENILES ON THE PREMISES OF ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ADULT ARCADE. Means any place to which the public is permitted or invited
in which coin- operated, slug-operated, or electronically, electrically, or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other
image-producing devices are regularly maintained to show images to five or
fewer persons per machine at any one time, and in which the images so displayed
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon matter exhibiting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
         (a)   Means a commercial establishment that, for any form of
consideration, has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock-in-
trade in, derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues from,
devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising to, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display
space for the sale or rental of any of the following:
            1.   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides, or
other visual representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the
exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas;
            2.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for
use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of self or others.
         (b)   Includes a commercial establishment as defined in R.C. §
2907.38. An establishment may have other principal business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale, rental, or viewing of materials exhibiting
or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and
still be categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video
store. The existence of other principal business purposes does not exempt an
establishment from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, or adult video store so long as one of its principal business purposes
is offering for sale or rental, for some form of consideration, such materials
that exhibit or describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      ADULT CABARET. Means a nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle
club, or similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages
are served, that regularly features any of the following:
         (a)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity;
         (b)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities;
         (c)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT. Means the sale, rental, or exhibition, for any form
of consideration, of books, films, video cassettes, magazines, periodicals, or
live performances that are characterized by an emphasis on the exposure or
display of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activity.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. Means an adult arcade, adult
bookstore, adult novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motion
picture theater, adult theater, nude or seminude model studio, or sexual
encounter establishment. An establishment in which a medical practitioner,
psychologist, psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the
state engages in medically approved and recognized therapy, including but not
limited to massage therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not an
“adult entertainment establishment”.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. Means a commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon
the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas are regularly shown for any form of consideration.
      ADULT THEATER. Means a theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar
commercial establishment that, for any form of consideration, regularly
features persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity or live
performances that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
      DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY THEIR EMPHASIS UPON. Means the dominant
or principal character and theme of the object described by this phrase. For
instance, when the phrase refers to films “that are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas”, the films so described are
those whose dominant or principal character and theme are the exhibition or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      NUDE OR SEMINUDE MODEL STUDIO. Means any place where a person, who
regularly appears in a state of nudity or seminudity, is provided for money or
any other form of consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons. A modeling
class or studio is not a nude or seminude model studio and is not subject to
this chapter if it is operated in any of the following ways:
         (a)   By a college or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation;
         (b)   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs, the credits for which are transferable to a college or
university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
         (c)   In a structure that has no sign visible from the exterior of the
structure and no other advertising indicating that a person appearing in a
state of nudity or seminudity is available for viewing, if in order to
participate in a class in the structure, a student must enroll at least three
days in advance of the class and if not more than one nude or seminude model is
on the premises at any one time.
      NUDITY, NUDE, or STATE OF NUDITY. Means the showing of the human male or
female genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft, or cleavage with less
than a fully opaque covering; or the showing of the female breasts with less
than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple.
      REGULARLY FEATURES or REGULARLY SHOWN. Means a consistent or substantial
course of conduct, such that the films or performances exhibited constitute a
substantial portion of the films or performances offered as a part of the
ongoing business of the adult entertainment establishment.
      SEMINUDE or STATE OF SEMINUDITY. Means a state of dress in which opaque
clothing covers not more than the genitals, pubic region, and nipple of the
female breast, as well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or
devices.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT.
         (a)   Means a business or commercial establishment that, as one of its
principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration a place where
either of the following occur:
            1.   Two or more persons may congregate, associate, or consort for
the purpose of engaging in specified sexual activities.
            2.   Two or more persons appear nude or seminude for the purpose of
displaying their nude or seminude bodies for their receipt of consideration or
compensation in any type or form.
         (b)   An establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized therapy, including but not limited to massage
therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not a “sexual encounter
establishment”.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Means the cleft of the buttocks, anus, male
or female genitals, or the female breast.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, or actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy;
         (b)   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of
the activities described in division (a) of this definition.
   (B)   No person knowingly shall allow an individual, including but not
limited to a patron, customer, or employee, who is under 18 years of age on the
premises of an adult entertainment establishment.
   (C)   No individual who is under 18 years of age knowingly shall show or
give false information concerning the individual’s name or age, or other false
identification, for the purpose of gaining entrance to an adult entertainment
establishment.
   (D)   A person shall not be found guilty of a violation of division (B) of
this section if the person raises as an affirmative defense and if the jury or,
in a nonjury trial, the court finds the person has established by a
preponderance of the evidence, all of the following:
      (1)   The individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment exhibited to an operator, employee, agent, or independent
contractor of the adult entertainment establishment a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and
4507.52 showing that the individual was then at least 18 years of age.
      (2)   The operator, employee, agent, or independent contractor made a
bona fide effort to ascertain the true age of the individual gaining entrance
to the adult entertainment establishment by checking the identification
presented, at the time of entrance, to ascertain that the description on the
identification compared with the appearance of the individual and that the
identification had not been altered in any way.
      (3)   The operator, employee, agent, or independent contractor had reason
to believe that the individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment was at least 18 years of age.
   (E)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense described in
division (D) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or the
deputy registrar who issued a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an
identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and 4507.52 shall be permitted to
submit certified copies of the records, in the Registrar’s or deputy
registrar’s possession, of the issuance of the license or identification card
in question, in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles in the action.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
permitting a juvenile on the premises of an adult entertainment establishment,
a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day a person violates this division
constitutes a separate offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of use by a
juvenile of false information to enter an adult entertainment establishment, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if committed by
an adult.
(R.C. § 2907.39)
§ 133.18 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; ILLEGAL OPERATION AND ACTIVITY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. Means a commercial establishment
that has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock in trade or
inventory in, derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues
from, devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising to, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display
space for the sale or rental, for any form of consideration, of books,
magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides, or other visual
representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition
or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT CABARET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. Means a commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions that are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly shown
to more than five individuals for any form of consideration.
      CHARACTERIZED BY. Describing the essential character or quality of an
item.
      EMPLOYEE. Means any individual who performs any service on the premises
of a sexually oriented business on a full-time, part-time, or contract basis,
regardless of whether the individual is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent, or otherwise, but does not include an individual exclusively
on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or for the delivery
of goods to the premises.
      NUDE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      NUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      OPERATOR. Means any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented
business who causes the business to function or who puts or keeps in operation
the business or who is authorized to manage the business or exercise overall
operational control of the business premises.
      PATRON. Means any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented
business except for any of the following:
         (a)   An operator or an employee of the sexually oriented business;
         (b)   An individual who is on the premises exclusively for repair or
maintenance of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises;
         (c)   A public employee or a volunteer firefighter emergency medical
services worker acting within the scope of the public employee’s or volunteer’s
duties as a public employee or volunteer.
      PREMISES. Means the real property on which the sexually oriented business
is located and all appurtenances to the real property, including, but not
limited, to the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways, and
parking lots or parking garages adjacent to the real property under the
ownership, control, or supervision of the owner or operator of the sexually
oriented business.
      REGULARLY. Means consistently or repeatedly.
      SEMINUDE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      SEXUAL DEVICE. Means any three-dimensional object designed and marketed
for stimulation of the male or female human genitals or anus or female breasts
or for sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others, including but not
limited to dildos, vibrators, penis pumps, and physical representations of the
human genital organs, but not including devices primarily intended for
protection against sexually transmitted diseases or for preventing pregnancy.
      SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP. Means a commercial establishment that regularly
features sexual devices, but not including any pharmacy, drug store, medical
clinic, or establishment primarily dedicated to providing medical or healthcare
products or services, and not including any commercial establishment that does
not restrict access to its premises by reason of age.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. Means a business or commercial enterprise that,
as one of its principal business purposes, purports to offer for any form of
consideration physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
individuals of the opposite sex when one or more of the individuals is nude or
seminude.
      SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Means an adult bookstore, adult video store,
adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater, sexual device shop, or sexual
encounter center, but does not include a business solely by reason of its
showing, selling, or renting materials that may depict sex.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Includes human genitals, pubic region, and
buttocks and the human female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Means sexual intercourse, oral copulation,
masturbation, or sodomy, or excretory functions as a part of or in connection
with any of these activities.
      STATE OF NUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      STATE OF SEMINUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
   (B)   No sexually oriented business shall be or remain open for business
between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day, except that a sexually
oriented business that holds a liquor permit pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4303 may
remain open until the hour specified in that permit if it does not conduct,
offer, or allow sexually oriented entertainment activity in which the
performers appear nude.
   (C)   (1)   No patron who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family
shall knowingly touch any employee while that employee is nude or seminude or
touch the clothing of any employee while that employee is nude or seminude.
      (2)   No employee who regularly appears nude or seminude on the premises
of a sexually oriented business, while on the premises of that sexually
oriented business and while nude or seminude, shall knowingly touch a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or the clothing of a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or allow a patron who is not
a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who is not a
member of the employee’s immediate family to touch the employee or the clothing
of the employee.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegally
operating a sexually oriented business, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal
sexually oriented activity in a sexually oriented business. If the offender
touches a specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing
covering a specified anatomical area, a violation of division (C) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender does not touch a
specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing covering a
specified anatomical area, a violation of division (C) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2907.40)
Statutory reference:
   State indemnification for certain municipal liability stemming from local
adult business regulations, see R.C. § 715.55
§ 133.19 UNLAWFUL ADVERTISING OF MASSAGE.
   (A)   No person, by means of a statement, solicitation, or offer in a print
or electronic publication, sign, placard, storefront display, or other medium,
shall advertise massage, relaxation massage, any other massage technique or
method, or any related service, with the suggestion or promise of sexual
activity.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful advertising of
massage, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prevents the municipality from enacting any
regulation of the advertising of massage further than and in addition to the
provisions of divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section, SEXUAL ACTIVITY has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2907.01.
(R.C. § 2927.17)
§ 133.20 NONCONSENSUAL DISSEMINATION OF PRIVATE SEXUAL IMAGES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CABLE SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.01.
      DIRECT-TO-HOME SATELLITE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. §
303, as amended.
      DISSEMINATE. Means to post, distribute, or publish on a computer device,
computer network, web site, or other electronic device or medium of
communication.
      IMAGE. Means a photograph, film, videotape, digital recording, or other
depiction or portrayal of a person.
      INTERACTIVE COMPUTER SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in the
“Telecommunications Act of 1996”, 47 U.S.C. § 230, as amended.
      INTERNET PROVIDER. Means a provider of internet service, including all of
the following:
         (a)   Broadband service, however defined or classified by the Federal
Communications Commission;
         (b)   Information service or telecommunications service, both as
defined in the “Telecommunications Act of 1996”, 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended;
         (c)   Internet protocol-enabled services, as defined in R.C. §
4927.01.
      MOBILE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended.
      SEXUAL ACT. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Sexual activity;
         (b)   Masturbation;
         (c)   An act involving a bodily substance that is performed for the
purpose of sexual arousal or gratification;
         (d)   Sado-masochistic abuse.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153,
as amended.
      VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly disseminate an image of another person if
all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person in the image is 18 years of age or older.
      (2)   The person in the image can be identified from the image itself or
from information displayed in connection with the image and the offender
supplied the identifying information.
      (3)   The person in the image is in a state of nudity or is engaged in a
sexual act.
      (4)   The image is disseminated without consent from the person in the
image.
      (5)   The image is disseminated with intent to harm the person in the
image.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit the dissemination of an image if any of
the following apply:
      (1)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of a criminal
investigation that is otherwise lawful.
      (2)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of, or in connection
with, the reporting of unlawful conduct.
      (3)   The image is part of a news report or commentary or an artistic or
expressive work, such as a performance, work of art, literary work, theatrical
work, musical work, motion picture, film, or audiovisual work.
      (4)   The image is disseminated by a law enforcement officer, or a
corrections officer or guard in a detention facility, acting within the scope
of the person’s official duties.
      (5)   The image is disseminated for another lawful public purpose.
      (6)   The person in the image is knowingly and willingly in a state of
nudity or engaged in a sexual act and is knowingly and willingly in a location
in which the person does not have a reasonable expectation of privacy.
      (7)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of medical treatment or
examination.
   (D)   The following entities are not liable for a violation of this section
solely as a result of an image or other information provided by another person:
      (1)   A provider of interactive computer service;
      (2)   A mobile service;
      (3)   A telecommunications carrier;
      (4)   An internet provider;
      (5)   A cable service provider;
      (6)   A direct-to-home satellite service;
      (7)   A video service provider.
   (E)   Any conduct that is a violation of this section and any other section
of this Code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (F)(1)(b), (F)(1)
(c), or (F)(1)(d) of this section, whoever violates this section is guilty of
nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images, a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images is
a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, nonconsensual dissemination of
private sexual images is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (d)   If the offender is under 18 years of age and the person in the
image is not more than five years older than the offender, the offender shall
not be prosecuted under this section.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty or disposition authorized or
required by law, the court may order any person who is convicted of a violation
of this section or who is adjudicated delinquent by reason of a violation of
this section to criminally forfeit all of the following property to the state
under R.C. Chapter 2981:
         (a)   Any profits or proceeds and any property the person has acquired
or maintained in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines
to have been acquired or maintained as a result of the violation;
         (b)   Any interest in, securities of, claim against, or property or
contractual right of any kind affording a source of influence over any
enterprise that the person has established, operated, controlled, or conducted
in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines to have been
acquired or maintained as a result of the violation.
   (G)   A victim of a violation of this section may commence a civil cause of
action against the offender, as described in R.C. § 2307.66.
(R.C. § 2917.211)
§ 133.99 SENTENCING FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED OFFENSES; SEXUAL PREDATORS;
REGISTRATION.
   (A)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, and the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim
offender relative to the offense or the offense is any offense listed in R.C. §
2901.07(D)(1) to (D)(3), the judge shall include in the offender’s sentence a
statement that the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim offender,
shall comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2950.03, and shall require the
offender to submit to a DNA specimen collection procedure pursuant to R.C. §
2901.07.
   (B)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or a
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, the judge shall include in the sentence a summary of the
offender’s duties imposed under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and
2950.06, and the duration of the duties. The judge shall inform the offender,
at the time of sentencing, of those duties and of their duration. If required
under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(2), the judge shall perform the duties specified in
that section or, if required under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(6), the judge shall
perform the duties specified in that division.
(R.C. § 2929.23)
Cross-reference:
   Sentencing generally, see
Chapter 130
CHAPTER 134: GAMBLING OFFENSES
Section
   
134.01   Definitions
   
134.02   Prohibitions against gambling; exception
   
134.03   Operating a gambling house
   
134.04   Public gaming
   
134.05   Cheating
   
134.06   Regulations concerning operation of licensed bingo game
   
134.07   Records to be kept
   
134.08   Requirements for bingo game operators
   
134.09   Bingo games for amusement only
   
134.10   Prohibitions where instant bingo game is conducted
   
134.11   Raffle drawings
   
134.12   Instant bingo other than at bingo sessions
   
134.13   Restrictions on owner or lessor of location at instant bingo
   
134.14   Skill-based amusement machines; prohibited conduct
   
134.15   Electronic instant bingo; prohibited conduct
Statutory reference:
   Conducting an illegal bingo game, felony, see R.C. § 2915.07
   Licensing bingo games by Attorney General, see R.C. § 2915.08
   Licensing distributors of bingo supplies by Attorney General, see R.C. §
2915.081
   Licensing manufacturers of bingo supplies by Attorney General, see R.C. §
2915.082
§ 134.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BET. The hazarding of anything of value upon the result of an event,
undertaking, or contingency, but does not include a bona fide business risk.
   BINGO. Either of the following:
      (1)   A game with all of the following characteristics:
         (a)   The participants use bingo cards or sheets, including paper
formats and electronic representation or image formats, that are divided into
25 spaces arranged in five horizontal and five vertical rows of spaces, with
each space, except the central space, being designated by a combination of a
letter and a number and with the central space being designated as a free
space;
         (b)   The participants cover the spaces on the bingo cards or sheets
that correspond to combinations of letters and numbers that are announced by a
bingo game operator;
         (c)   A bingo game operator announces combinations of letters and
numbers that appear on objects that a bingo game operator selects by chance,
either manually or mechanically, from a receptacle that contains 75 objects at
the beginning of each game, each object marked by a different combination of a
letter and a number that corresponds to one of the 75 possible combinations of
a letter and a number that can appear on the bingo cards or sheets;
         (d)   The winner of the bingo game includes any participant who
properly announces during the interval between the announcements of letters and
numbers, as described in division (1)(c) of this definition, that a
predetermined and pre-announced pattern of spaces has been covered on a bingo
card or sheet being used by the participant.
      (2)   Instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, and raffles.
   BINGO GAME OPERATOR. Any person, except security personnel, who performs
work or labor at the site of bingo including but not limited to collecting
money from participants, handing out bingo cards or sheets or objects to cover
spaces on bingo cards or sheets, selecting from a receptacle the objects that
contain the combination of letters and numbers that appear on bingo cards or
sheets, calling out the combinations of letters and numbers, distributing
prizes, selling or redeeming instant bingo tickets or cards, selling or
redeeming electronic instant bingo tickets, credits, or vouchers, accessing an
electronic instant bingo system other than as a participant, supervising the
operation of a punch board, selling raffle tickets, selecting raffle tickets
from a receptacle and announcing the winning numbers in a raffle, and
preparing, selling, and serving food or beverages. BINGO GAME OPERATOR does not
include a person who is installing, maintaining, updating, or repairing an
electronic instant bingo system.
   BINGO SESSION. A period that includes both of the following:
      (1)   Not to exceed five continuous hours for the conduct of one or more
games described in division (1) of the definition of "bingo" in this section,
instant bingo, and electronic instant bingo;
      (2)   A period for the conduct of instant bingo and electronic instant
bingo for not more than two hours before and not more than two hours after the
period described in division (1) of this definition.
   BINGO SUPPLIES. Bingo cards or sheets; instant bingo tickets or cards;
electronic bingo aids; raffle tickets; punch boards; seal cards; instant bingo
ticket dispensers; electronic instant bingo systems; and devices for selecting
or displaying the combination of bingo letters and numbers or raffle tickets.
Items that are BINGO SUPPLIES are not gambling devices if sold or otherwise
provided, and used, in accordance with this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915. For
purposes of this chapter, BINGO SUPPLIES are not to be considered equipment
used to conduct a bingo game.
   BOOKMAKING. The business of receiving or paying off bets.
   CHAMBER OF COMMERCE. Any organization of individuals, professionals, and
businesses that has the purpose to advance the commercial, financial,
industrial, and civic interests of the community and that is, and has received
from the Internal Revenue Service a determination letter that currently is in
effect stating that the organization is, exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(6).
   CHARITABLE BINGO GAME. Any bingo game described in divisions (1) or (2) of
the definition of “bingo” in this section that is conducted by a charitable
organization that has obtained a license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08 and the
proceeds of which are used for a charitable purpose.
   CHARITABLE INSTANT BINGO ORGANIZATION. An organization that is exempt from
federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3) and
is a charitable organization as defined in this section. The term does not
include a charitable organization that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3) and that is created by a
veteran’s organization, a fraternal organization, or a sporting organization in
regards to bingo conducted or assisted by a veteran’s organization, a fraternal
organization, or a sporting organization pursuant to R.C. § 2915.13, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, “charitable
organization” means either of the following:
         (a)   An organization that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
         (b)   A volunteer rescue service organization, volunteer firefighter’s
organization, veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §§ 501(c)
(4), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19).
      (2)   To qualify as a charitable organization, an organization shall have
been in continuous existence as such in this state for a period of two years
immediately preceding either the making of an application for a bingo license
under R.C. § 2915.08 or the conducting of any game of chance as provided in
R.C. § 2915.02(D), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE PURPOSE. Means that the net profit of bingo, other than instant
bingo or electronic instant bingo, is used by, or is given, donated, or
otherwise transferred to, any of the following:
      (1)   Any organization that is described in IRC §§ 509(a)(1), 509(a)(2),
or 509(a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization that is tax
exempt under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
      (2)   A veteran’s organization that is a post, chapter, or organization
of veterans, or an auxiliary unit or society of, or a trust or foundation for,
any such post, chapter, or organization organized in the United States or any
of its possessions, at least 75% of the members of which are veterans and
substantially all of the other members of which are individuals who are
spouses, widows, or widowers of veterans, or such individuals, provided that no
part of the net earnings of such post, chapter, or organization inures to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual, and further provided that the
net profit is used by the post, chapter, or organization for the charitable
purposes set forth in R.C. § 5739.02(B)(12), is used for awarding scholarships
to or for attendance at an institution mentioned in that division of the Ohio
Revised Code, is donated to a governmental agency, or is used for nonprofit
youth activities, the purchase of United States or Ohio flags that are donated
to schools, youth groups, or other bona fide nonprofit organizations, promotion
of patriotism, or disaster relief;
      (3)   A fraternal organization that has been in continuous existence in
this state for 15 years and that uses the net profit exclusively for religious,
charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes, or for the
prevention of cruelty to children or animals, if contributions for such use
would qualify as a deductible charitable contribution under IRC § 170;
      (4)   A volunteer firefighter’s organization that uses the net profit for
the purposes set forth in the definition of “volunteer firefighter’s
organization” in this section.
   COMMUNITY ACTION AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 122.66.
   CONDUCT. To back, promote, organize, manage, carry on, sponsor, or prepare
for the operation of bingo or a game of chance, a scheme of chance, or a
sweepstakes.
   DEAL. A single game of instant bingo tickets, or a single game of electronic
instant bingo tickets, all with the same serial number.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person who purchases or obtains bingo supplies and who does
either of the following:
      (1)   Sells, offers for sale, or otherwise provides or offers to provide
the bingo supplies to another person for use in this state;
      (2)   Modifies, converts, adds to, or removes parts from the bingo
supplies to further their promotion or sale for use in this state.
   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID.
      (1)   An electronic device used by a participant to monitor bingo cards
or sheets purchased at the time and place of a bingo session and that does all
of the following:
         (a)   It provides a means for a participant to input numbers and
letters announced by a bingo caller.
         (b)   It compares the numbers and letters entered by the participant
to the bingo faces previously stored in the memory of the device.
         (c)   It identifies a winning bingo pattern.
      (2)   The term does not include any device into which a coin, currency,
token, or an equivalent is inserted to activate play.
   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO.
      (1)   A form of bingo that consists of an electronic or digital
representation of instant bingo in which a participant wins a prize if the
participant's electronic instant bingo ticket contains a combination of numbers
or symbols that was designated in advance as a winning combination, and to
which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Each deal has a predetermined, finite number of winning and
losing tickets and a predetermined prize amount and deal structure, provided
that there may be multiple winning combinations in each deal and multiple
winning tickets.
         (b)   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal has a unique
serial number that is not regenerated.
         (c)   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal is sold for
the same price.
         (d)   After a participant purchases an electronic instant bingo
ticket, the combination of numbers or symbols on the ticket is revealed to the
participant.
         (e)   The reveal of numbers or symbols on the ticket may incorporate
an entertainment or bonus theme, provided that the reveal does not include
spinning reels that resemble a slot machine.
         (f)   The reveal theme, if any, does not require additional
consideration or award any prize other than any predetermined prize associated
with the electronic instant bingo ticket.
      (2)   The term shall not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any game, entertainment, or bonus theme that replicates or
simulates any of the following:
            1.   The gambling games of keno, blackjack, roulette, poker, craps,
other casino-style table games;
            2.   Horse racing;
            3.   Gambling games offered in this state on slot machines or video
lottery terminals. As used in this division, "video lottery terminal" has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
         (b)   Any device operated by dropping one or more coins or tokens into
a slot and pulling a handle or pushing a button or touchpoint on a touchscreen
to activate one to three or more rotating reels marked into horizontal segments
by varying symbols, where the predetermined prize amount depends on how and how
many of the symbols line up when the rotating reels come to a rest;
         (c)   Any device that includes a coin or token slot, tray, or hopper
and the ability to dispense coins, cash, tokens, or anything of value other
than a credit ticket voucher.
   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO SYSTEM. Means both of the following:
      (1)   A mechanical, electronic, digital, or video device and associated
software to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   It is used by not more than one player at a time to play
electronic instant bingo on a single screen that is physically connected to the
device;
         (b)   It is located on the premises of the principal place of business
of a veteran's or fraternal organization that holds a type II or type III bingo
license to conduct electronic instant bingo at that location issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08.
      (2)   Any associated equipment or software used to manage, monitor, or
document any aspect of electronic instant bingo.
   EXPENSES. The reasonable amount of gross profit actually expended for all of
the following:
      (1)   The purchase or lease of bingo supplies;
      (2)   The annual license fee required under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Bank fees and service charges for a bingo session or game account
described in R.C. § 2915.10;
      (4)   Audits and accounting services;
      (5)   Safes;
      (6)   Cash registers;
      (7)   Hiring security personnel;
      (8)   Advertising bingo;
      (9)   Renting premises in which to conduct a bingo session;
      (10)   Tables and chairs;
      (11)   Expenses for maintaining and operating a charitable organization’s
facilities, including but not limited to a post home, club house, lounge,
tavern, or canteen and any grounds attached to the post home, club house,
lounge, tavern, or canteen;
      (12)   Payment of real property taxes and assessments that are levied on
a premises on which bingo is conducted;
      (13)   Any other product or service directly related to the conduct of
bingo that is authorized in rules adopted by the Attorney General under R.C. §
2915.08(F)(1).
   FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. Any society, order, state headquarters, or
association within this state, except a college or high school fraternity, that
is not organized for profit, that is a branch, lodge, or chapter of a national
or state organization, that exists exclusively for the common business or
sodality of its members.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A book, totalizer, or other equipment used for recording bets;
      (2)   A ticket, token, or other device representing a chance, share, or
interest in a scheme of chance or evidencing a bet;
      (3)   A deck of cards, dice, gaming table, roulette wheel, slot machine,
or other apparatus designed for use in connection with a game of chance;
      (4)   Any equipment, device, apparatus, or paraphernalia specially
designed for gambling purposes;
      (5)   Bingo supplies sold or otherwise provided, or used, in violation of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   GAMBLING OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. Chapter 2915;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 or a violation of R.C. § 2915.06
as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or of the United States, of which gambling is an
element;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   GAME FLARE. The board or placard, or electronic representation of a board or
placard, that accompanies each deal of instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo tickets and that includes the following information for the game:
      (1)   The name of the game;
      (2)   The manufacturer’s name or distinctive logo;
      (3)   The form number;
      (4)   The ticket count;
      (5)   The prize structure, including the number of winning tickets by
denomination and the respective winning symbol or number combinations for the
winning tickets;
      (6)   The cost per play;
      (7)   The serial number of the game.
   GAME OF CHANCE. Poker, craps, roulette, or other game in which a player
gives anything of value in the hope of gain, the outcome of which is determined
largely by chance, but does not include bingo.
   GAME OF CHANCE CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. Any game of chance designed to produce
income for the person who conducts or operates the game of chance, but does not
include bingo.
   GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES. The annual gross receipts derived from the conduct of
bingo described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section
plus the annual net profit derived from the conduct of bingo described in
division (2) of the definition of “bingo” in this section.
   GROSS PROFIT. Gross receipts minus the amount actually expended for the
payment of prize awards.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. All money or assets, including admission fees, that a person
receives from bingo without the deduction of any amounts for prizes paid out or
for the expenses of conducting bingo. The term does not include any money
directly taken in from the sale of food or beverages by a charitable
organization conducting bingo, or by a bona fide auxiliary unit or society of a
charitable organization conducting bingo, provided all of the following apply:
      (1)   The auxiliary unit or society has been in existence as a bona fide
auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization for at least two years
prior to conducting bingo.
      (2)   The person who purchases the food or beverage receives nothing of
value except the food or beverage and items customarily received with the
purchase of that food or beverage.
      (3)   The food and beverages are sold at customary and reasonable prices.
   HISTORIC RAILROAD. All or a portion of the tracks and right-of-way of a
railroad that was owned and operated by a for profit common carrier in this
state at any time prior to January 1, 1950.
   INSTANT BINGO. A form of bingo that shall use folded or banded tickets or
paper cards with perforated break-open tabs, a face of which is covered or
otherwise hidden from view to conceal a number, letter, or symbol, or set of
numbers, letters, or symbols, some of which have been designated in advance as
prize winners, and may also include games in which some winners are determined
by the random selection of one or more bingo numbers by the use of a seal card
or bingo blower. INSTANT BINGO also includes a punch board game. In all INSTANT
BINGO the prize amount and structure shall be predetermined. The term does not
include electronic instant bingo or any device that is activated by the
insertion of a coin, currency, token, or an equivalent, and that contains as
one of its components a video display monitor that is capable of displaying
numbers, letters, symbols, or characters in winning or losing combinations.
   INSTANT BINGO TICKET DISPENSER. A mechanical device that dispenses an
instant bingo ticket or card as the sole item of value dispensed and that has
the following characteristics:
      (1)   It is activated upon the insertion of United States currency.
      (2)   It performs no gaming functions.
      (3)   It does not contain a video display monitor or generate noise.
      (4)   It is not capable of displaying any numbers, letters, symbols, or
characters in winning or losing combinations.
      (5)   It does not simulate or display rolling or spinning reels.
      (6)   It is incapable of determining whether a dispensed bingo ticket or
card is a winning or non- winning ticket or card and requires a winning ticket
or card to be paid by a bingo game operator.
      (7)   It may provide accounting and security features to aid in
accounting for the instant bingo tickets or cards it dispenses.
      (8)   It is not part of an electronic network and is not interactive.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE (IRC). The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 100 Stat.
2085, 26 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person who assembles completed bingo supplies from raw
materials, other items, or subparts or who modifies, converts, adds to, or
removes parts from bingo supplies to further their promotion or sale.
   MERCHANDISE PRIZE. Any item of value, but shall not include any of the
following:
      (1)   Cash, gift cards, or any equivalent thereof;
      (2)   Plays on games of chance, state lottery tickets, or bingo;
      (3)   Firearms, tobacco, or alcoholic beverages; or
      (4)   A redeemable voucher that is redeemable for any of the items listed
in division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   NET PROFIT. Gross profit minus expenses.
   NET PROFIT FROM THE PROCEEDS OF THE SALE OF INSTANT BINGO OR ELECTRONIC
INSTANT BINGO. Gross profit minus the ordinary, necessary, and reasonable
expense expended for the purchase of bingo supplies for the purpose of
conducting instant bingo or electronic instant bingo, and, in the case of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conducted by a veteran's, fraternal,
or sporting organization, minus the payment by that organization of real
property taxes and assessments levied on a premises on which instant bingo or
electronic instant bingo is conducted.
   PARTICIPANT. Any person who plays bingo.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.59 and includes any firm or any
other legal entity, however organized.
   POOL NOT CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. A scheme in which a participant gives a
valuable consideration for a chance to win a prize and the total amount of
consideration wagered is distributed to a participant or participants.
   PUNCH BOARD. A form of instant bingo that uses a board containing a number
of holes or receptacles of uniform size in which are placed, mechanically and
randomly, serially numbered slips of paper that may be punched or drawn from
the hole or receptacle. A player may punch or draw the numbered slips of paper
from the holes or receptacles and obtain the prize established for the game if
the number drawn corresponds to a winning number or, if the punch board
includes the use of a seal card, a potential winning number.
   RAFFLE. A form of bingo in which the one or more prizes are won by one or
more persons who have purchased a raffle ticket. The one or more winners of the
raffle are determined by drawing a ticket stub or other detachable section from
a receptacle containing ticket stubs or detachable sections corresponding to
all tickets sold for the raffle. The term does not include the drawing of a
ticket stub or other detachable section of a ticket purchased to attend a
professional sporting event if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The ticket stub or other detachable section is used to select the
winner of a free prize given away at the professional sporting event; and
      (2)   The cost of the ticket is the same as the cost of a ticket to the
professional sporting event on days when no free prize is given away.
   REDEEMABLE VOUCHER. Any ticket, token, coupon, receipt, or other noncash
representation of value.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION. Any church, body of communicants, or group that is
not organized or operated for profit and that gathers in common membership for
regular worship and religious observances.
   REVOKE. To void permanently all rights and privileges of the holder of a
license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SCHEME OF CHANCE.
      (1)   A slot machine unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3772, lottery
unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770, numbers game, pool conducted for
profit, or other scheme in which a participant gives a valuable consideration
for a chance to win a prize, but does not include bingo, a skill-based
amusement machine, or a pool not conducted for profit. “Scheme of chance”
includes the use of an electronic device to reveal the results of a game entry
if valuable consideration is paid, directly or indirectly, for a chance to win
a prize. Valuable consideration is deemed to be paid for a chance to win a
prize in the following instances:
         (a)   Less than 50% of the goods or services sold by a scheme of
chance operator in exchange for game entries are used or redeemed by
participants at any one location;
         (b)   Less than 50% of participants who purchase goods or services at
any one location do not accept, use, or redeem the goods or services sold or
purportedly sold;
         (c)   More than 50% of prizes at any one location are revealed to
participants through an electronic device simulating a game of chance or a
“casino game” as defined in R.C. § 3772.01;
         (d)   The good or service sold by a scheme of chance operator in
exchange for a game entry cannot be used or redeemed in the manner advertised;
         (e)   A participant pays more than fair market value for goods or
services offered by a scheme of chance operator in order to receive one or more
game entries;
         (f)   A participant may use the electronic device to purchase
additional game entries;
         (g)   A participant may purchase additional game entries by using
points or credits won as prizes while using the electronic device;
         (h)   A scheme of chance operator pays out in prize money more than
20% of the gross revenue received at one location; or
         (i)   A participant makes a purchase or exchange in order to obtain
any good or service that may be used to facilitate play on the electronic
device.
      (2)   As used in this division, “electronic device” means a mechanical,
video, digital, or electronic machine or device that is capable of displaying
information on a screen or other mechanism and that is owned, leased, or
otherwise possessed by any person conducting a scheme of chance, or by that
person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or contractors. "Electronic
device" does not include an electronic instant bingo system.
   SEAL CARD. A form of instant bingo that uses instant bingo tickets in
conjunction with a board or placard that contains one or more seals that, when
removed or opened, reveal predesignated winning numbers, letters, or symbols.
   SECURITY PERSONNEL. Includes any person who either is a Sheriff, deputy
sheriff, Marshal, deputy marshal, township constable, or member of an organized
police department of a municipal corporation or has successfully completed a
peace officer’s training course pursuant to R.C. §§ 109.71 through 109.79 and
who is hired to provide security for the premises on which bingo is conducted.
   SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINE.
      (1)   (a)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic device that
rewards the player or players, if at all, only with merchandise prizes or with
redeemable vouchers redeemable only for merchandise prizes, provided that with
respect to rewards for playing the game all of the following apply:
            1.   The wholesale value of a merchandise prize awarded as a result
of the single play of a machine does not exceed $10;
            2.   Redeemable vouchers awarded for any single play of a machine
are not redeemable for a merchandise prize with a wholesale value of more than
$10;
            3.   Redeemable vouchers are not redeemable for a merchandise prize
that has a wholesale value of more than $10 times the fewest number of single
plays necessary to accrue the redeemable vouchers required to obtain that
prize; and
            4.   Any redeemable vouchers or merchandise prizes are distributed
at the site of the skill-based amusement machine at the time of play.
         (b)   A card for the purchase of gasoline is a redeemable voucher for
purposes of division (1) of this definition even if the skill-based amusement
machine for the play of which the card is awarded is located at a place where
gasoline may not be legally distributed to the public or the card is not
redeemable at the location of, or at the time of playing, the skill-based
amusement machine.
      (2)   A device shall not be considered a skill-based amusement machine
and shall be considered a slot machine if it pays cash or one or more of the
following apply:
         (a)   The ability of a player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the number or ratio of prior wins to prior losses of players playing the game;
         (b)   Any reward of redeemable vouchers is not based solely on the
player achieving the object of the game or the player’s score;
         (c)   The outcome of the game, or the value of the redeemable voucher
or merchandise prize awarded for winning the game, can be controlled by a
source other than any player playing the game;
         (d)   The success of any player is or may be determined by a chance
event that cannot be altered by player actions;
         (e)   The ability of any player to succeed at the game is determined
by game features not visible or known to the player;
         (f)   The ability of the player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the exercise of a skill that no reasonable player could exercise.
      (3)   All of the following apply to any machine that is operated as
described in division (1) of this definition:
         (a)   As used in this definition of “skill-based amusement machine”,
GAME and PLAY mean one event from the initial activation of the machine until
the results of play are determined without payment of additional consideration.
An individual utilizing a machine that involves a single game, play, contest,
competition, or tournament may be awarded redeemable vouchers or merchandise
prizes based on the results of play.
         (b)   Advance play for a single game, play, contest, competition, or
tournament participation may be purchased. The cost of the contest,
competition, or tournament participation may be greater than a single non-
contest, competition, or tournament play.
         (c)   To the extent that the machine is used in a contest,
competition, or tournament, that contest, competition, or tournament has a
defined starting and ending date and is open to participants in competition for
scoring and ranking results toward the awarding of redeemable vouchers or
merchandise prizes that are stated prior to the start of the contest,
competition, or tournament.
      (4)   For purposes of division (1) of this definition, the mere presence
of a device, such as a pin- setting, ball-releasing, or scoring mechanism, that
does not contribute to or affect the outcome of the play of the game does not
make the device a skill-based amusement machine.
   SLOT MACHINE.
      (1)   Either of the following:
         (a)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player who gives the thing of value in the hope of gain;
         (b)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player to conduct bingo or a scheme or game of chance.
      (2)   The term does not include a skill-based amusement machine, an
instant bingo ticket dispenser, or an electronic instant bingo system.
   SPORTING ORGANIZATION. A hunting, fishing, or trapping organization, other
than a college or high school fraternity or sorority, that is not organized for
profit, that is affiliated with a state or national sporting organization,
including but not limited to the League of Ohio Sportsmen, and that has been in
continuous existence in this state for a period of three years.
   SUSPEND. To interrupt temporarily all rights and privileges of the holder of
a license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SWEEPSTAKES. Any game, contest, advertising scheme or plan, or other
promotion where consideration is not required for a person to enter to win or
become eligible to receive any prize, the determination of which is based upon
chance. “Sweepstakes” does not include bingo as authorized under R.C. Chapter
2915, pari-mutuel wagering as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3769, lotteries
conducted by the State Lottery Commission as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3770,
and casino gaming as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3772.
   SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE.
      (1)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic machine or device that
is owned, leased, or otherwise possessed by any person conducting a
sweepstakes, or by that person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or
contractors, that is intended to be used by a sweepstakes participant, and that
is capable of displaying information on a screen or other mechanism. A device
is a sweepstakes terminal device if any of the following apply:
         (a)   The device uses a simulated game terminal as a representation of
the prizes associated with the results of the sweepstakes entries.
         (b)   The device utilizes software such that the simulated game
influences or determines the winning of or value of the prize.
         (c)   The device selects prizes from a predetermined finite pool of
entries.
         (d)   The device utilizes a mechanism that reveals the content of a
predetermined sweepstakes entry.
         (e)   The device predetermines the prize results and stores those
results for delivery at the time the sweepstakes entry results are revealed.
         (f)   The device utilizes software to create a game result.
         (g)   The device reveals the prize incrementally, even though the
device does not influence the awarding of the prize or the value of any prize
awarded.
         (h)   The device determines and associates the prize with an entry or
entries at the time the sweepstakes is entered.
      (2)   As used in this definition and in §
134.02:
         ENTER. The act by which a person becomes eligible to receive any prize
offered in a sweepstakes.
         ENTRY. One event from the initial activation of the sweepstakes
terminal device until all the sweepstakes prize results from that activation
are revealed.
         PRIZE. Any gift, award, gratuity, good, service, credit, reward, or
any other thing of value that may be transferred to a person, whether
possession of the prize is actually transferred, or placed on an account or
other record as evidence of the intent to transfer the prize.
         SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE FACILITY. Any location in this state where
a sweepstakes terminal device is provided to a sweepstakes participant, except
as provided in §
134.02(G) and R.C. § 2915.02(G).
   VETERAN’S ORGANIZATION. Any individual post or state headquarters of a
national veteran’s association or an auxiliary unit of any individual post of a
national veteran’s association, which post, state headquarters, or auxiliary
unit is incorporated as a nonprofit corporation and either has received a
letter from the state headquarters of the national veteran’s association
indicating that the individual post or auxiliary unit is in good standing with
the national veteran’s association or has received a letter from the national
veteran’s association indicating that the state headquarters is in good
standing with the national veteran’s association. As used in this definition,
NATIONAL VETERAN’S ASSOCIATION means any veteran’s association that has been in
continuous existence as such for a period of at least five years and either is
incorporated by an act of the United States Congress or has a national dues-
paying membership of at least 5,000 persons.
   VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER’S ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteer
firefighters, as defined in R.C. § 146.01, that is organized and operated
exclusively to provide financial support for a volunteer fire department or a
volunteer fire company and that is recognized or ratified by a county,
municipal corporation, or township.
   VOLUNTEER RESCUE SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteers
organized to function as an emergency medical service organization, as defined
in R.C. § 4765.01.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for profit,
that is organized and operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or
to operate, athletic activities for persons who are 21 years of age or younger
by means of sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the support
of an athletic team, club, league, or association.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC PARK ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for
profit, that satisfies both of the following:
      (1)   It owns, operates, and maintains playing fields that satisfy both
of the following:
         (a)   The playing fields are used for athletic activities by one or
more organizations, not organized for profit, each of which is organized and
operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or to operate, athletic
activities for persons who are 18 years of age or younger by means of
sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the support of an
athletic team, club, league, or association.
         (b)   The playing fields are not used for any profit-making activity
at any time during the year.
      (2)   It uses the proceeds of bingo it conducts exclusively for the
operation, maintenance, and improvement of its playing fields of the type
described in division (1) of this definition.
(R.C. § 2915.01)
§ 134.02 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST GAMBLING; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Engage in bookmaking, or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates bookmaking.
      (2)   Establish, promote, or operate or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (3)   Knowingly procure, transmit, exchange, or engage in conduct that
facilitates the procurement, transmission, or exchange of information for use
in establishing odds or determining winners in connection with bookmaking or
with any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (4)   Engage in betting or in playing any scheme or game of chance as a
substantial source of income or livelihood.
      (5)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
and either:
         (a)   Give to another person any item described in R.C. § 2915.01(VV)
(1), (VV)(2), (VV)(3), or (VV)(4) as a prize for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes; or
         (b)   Give to another person any merchandise prize, or a redeemable
voucher for a merchandise prize, the wholesale value of which is in excess of
$10 and which is awarded as a single entry for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes. Redeemable vouchers shall not be redeemable for a merchandise
prize that has a wholesale value of more than $10.
      (6)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
without first obtaining a current annual “certificate of registration” from the
Attorney General as required by R.C. § 2915.02(F).
      (7)   With purpose to violate division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
(A)(5), or (A)(6) of this section, acquire, possess, control, or operate any
gambling device.
   (B)   For purposes of division (A)(1) of this section, a person facilitates
bookmaking if the person in any way knowingly aids an illegal bookmaking
operation, including, without limitation, placing a bet with a person engaged
in or facilitating illegal bookmaking. For purposes of division (A)(2) of this
section, a person facilitates a game of chance conducted for profit or a scheme
of chance if the person in any way knowingly aids in the conduct or operation
of any such game or scheme, including, without limitation, playing any such
game or scheme.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit conduct in connection with gambling
expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Games of chance, if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The games of chance are not craps for money or roulette for
money.
         (b)   The games of chance are conducted by a charitable organization
that is and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a determination
letter that is currently in effect, stating that the organization is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)
(3).
         (c)   The games of chance are conducted at festivals of the charitable
organization that are conducted not more than a total of five days a calendar
year, and are conducted on premises owned by the charitable organization for a
period of no less than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the
games of chance, on premises leased from a governmental unit, or on premises
that are leased from a veteran’s or fraternal organization and that have been
owned by the lessor veteran’s or fraternal organization for a period of no less
than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the games of chance. A
charitable organization shall not lease premises from a veteran’s or fraternal
organization to conduct a festival described in this division, if the veteran’s
or fraternal organization already has leased the premises 12 times during the
preceding year to charitable organizations for that purpose. If a charitable
organization leases premises from a veteran’s or fraternal organization to
conduct a festival described in this division, the charitable organization
shall not pay a rental rate for the premises per day of the festival that
exceeds the rental rate per bingo session that a charitable organization may
pay under R.C. § 2915.09(B)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance when it leases premises from another charitable organization to
conduct bingo games.
         (d)   All of the money or assets received from the games of chance
after deduction only of prizes paid out during the conduct of the games of
chance are used by, given, donated or otherwise transferred to any organization
that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that is tax exempt under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(3).
         (e)   The games of chance are not conducted during or within ten hours
of a bingo game conducted for amusement purposes only pursuant to R.C. §
2915.12 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance. No person shall
receive any commission, wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other
form of compensation, directly or indirectly, for operating or assisting in the
operation of any game of chance.
      (2)   Any tag fishing tournament, as defined in R.C. § 1531.01, operated
under a permit issued under R.C. § 1533.92.
      (3)   Bingo conducted by a charitable organization that holds a license
issued under R.C. § 2915.08.
   (E)   Division (D) of this section shall not be construed to authorize the
sale, lease, or other temporary or permanent transfer of the right to conduct
games of chance, as granted by that division, by any charitable organization
that is granted that right.
   (F)   Any person desiring to conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a
sweepstakes with the use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes
terminal device facility shall first register with the Office of the Attorney
General and obtain an annual certificate of registration by providing a filing
fee of $200 and all information as required by rule adopted under R.C. §
2915.02(H). Not later than the tenth day of each month, each sweepstakes
terminal device operator shall file a sweepstakes terminal device monthly
report with the Attorney General and provide a filing fee of $50 and all
information required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H). All information
provided to the Attorney General under this division shall be available to law
enforcement upon request.
   (G)   (1)   A person may apply to the Attorney General, on a form prescribed
by the Attorney General, for a certificate of compliance that the person is not
operating a sweepstakes terminal device facility. The form shall require the
person to include the address of the business location where sweepstakes
terminal devices will be used and to make the following certifications:
         (a)   That the person will not use more than two sweepstakes terminal
devices at the business location;
         (b)   That the retail value of sweepstakes prizes to be awarded at the
business location using sweepstakes terminal devices during a reporting period
will be less than 3% of the gross revenue received at the business location
during the reporting period;
         (c)   That no other form of gaming except lottery ticket sales as
authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770 will be conducted at the business location
or in an adjoining area of the business location;
         (d)   That any sweepstakes terminal device at the business location
will not allow any deposit of any money, coin, or token, or the use of any
credit card, debit card, prepaid card, or any other method of similar payment
to be used, directly or indirectly, to participate in a sweepstakes;
         (e)   That notification of any prize will not take place on the same
day as a participant’s sweepstakes entry; and
         (f)   That the person consents to provide any other information to the
Attorney General as required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H).
      (2)   The filing fee for a certificate of compliance is $250. The
Attorney General may charge up to an additional $250 for reasonable expenses
resulting from any investigation related to an application for a certificate of
compliance.
      (3)   A certificate of compliance is effective for one year. The
certificate holder may reapply for a certificate of compliance. A person issued
a certificate of compliance shall file semiannual reports with the Attorney
General stating the number of sweepstakes terminal devices at the business
location and that the retail value of prizes awarded at the business location
using sweepstakes terminal devices is less than 3% of the gross revenue
received at the business location.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of gambling, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense, gambling is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
Notwithstanding this division, failing to file a sweepstakes terminal device
monthly report as required by division (F) of this section or the semiannual
report required by division (G) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2915.02(A) - (G), (K))
§ 134.03 OPERATING A GAMBLING HOUSE.
   (A)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of premises, shall:
      (1)   Use or occupy the premises for gambling in violation of R.C. §
2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   Recklessly permit the premises to be used or occupied for gambling
in violation of R.C. § 2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of operating a
gambling house, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a gambling offense, operating a gambling house is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Premises used or occupied in violation of this section constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.03)
§ 134.04 PUBLIC GAMING.
   (A)   No person, while at a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall,
or other place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall
make a bet or play any game of chance or scheme of chance.
   (B)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other place
of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall recklessly permit
those premises to be used or occupied in violation of division (A) of this
section.
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) of this section do not prohibit conduct in
connection with gambling expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public gaming. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, public gaming is a minor misdemeanor. If
the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling offense, public
gaming is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (E)   Premises used or occupied in violation of division (B) of this section
constitute a nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.04)
§ 134.05 CHEATING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome
of any of the following:
      (1)   The subject of a bet.
      (2)   A contest of knowledge, skill, or endurance that is not an athletic
or sporting event.
      (3)   A scheme or game of chance.
      (4)   Bingo.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Offer, give, solicit, or accept anything of value to corrupt the
outcome of an athletic or sporting event.
      (2)   Engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome of an athletic or
sporting event.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
cheating. Except as otherwise provided in this division, cheating is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the potential gain from the cheating is
$1,000 or more or if the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense or of any theft offense as defined in R.C. § 2913.01, cheating is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
corrupting sports. Corrupting sports is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.05)
§ 134.06 REGULATIONS CONCERNING OPERATION OF LICENSED BINGO GAME.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo shall fail to do any of
the following:
      (1)   Own all of the equipment used to conduct bingo or lease that
equipment from a charitable organization that is licensed to conduct bingo, or
from the landlord of a premises where bingo is conducted, for a rental rate
that is not more than is customary and reasonable for that equipment;
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(3) of this section,
use all of the gross receipts from bingo for paying prizes, for reimbursement
of expenses for or for renting premises in which to conduct bingo, for
reimbursement of expenses for or for purchasing or leasing bingo supplies used
in conducting bingo, for reimbursement of expenses for or for hiring security
personnel, for reimbursement of expenses for or for advertising bingo, or for
reimbursement of other expenses or for other expenses listed in the definition
for “expenses” in R.C. § 2915.01, provided that the amount of the receipts so
spent is not more than is customary and reasonable for a similar purchase,
lease, hiring, advertising, or expense. If the building in which bingo is
conducted is owned by the charitable organization conducting bingo and the
bingo conducted includes a form of bingo described in division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01, the charitable organization may deduct
from the total amount of the gross receipts from each session a sum equal to
the lesser of $600 or 45% of the gross receipts from the bingo described in
that division as consideration for the use of the premises;
      (3)   Use, or give, donate, or otherwise transfer, all of the net profit
derived from bingo described in R.C. § 2915.01(O)(1) for a charitable purpose
listed in its license application and described in R.C. § 2915.01(V), or
distribute all of the net profit from the proceeds of the sale of instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo as stated in its license application and in
accordance with R.C. § 2915.101, as applicable.
   (B)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall fail to do
any of the following:
      (1)   Conduct the bingo game on premises that are owned by the charitable
organization, on premises that are owned by another charitable organization and
leased from that charitable organization for a rental rate not in excess of the
lesser of $650 per bingo session or 45% of the gross receipts of the bingo
session, on premises that are leased from a person other than a charitable
organization for a rental rate that is not more than is customary and
reasonable for premises that are similar in location, size, and quality but not
in excess of $450 per bingo session, or on premises that are owned by a person
other than a charitable organization, that are leased from that person by
another charitable organization, and that are subleased from that other
charitable organization by the charitable organization for a rental rate not in
excess of $450 per bingo session. No charitable organization is required to pay
property taxes or assessments on premises that the charitable organization
leases from another person to conduct bingo sessions. If the charitable
organization leases from a person other than a charitable organization the
premises on which it conducts bingo sessions, the lessor of the premises shall
provide only the premises to the organization and shall not provide the
organization with bingo game operators, security personnel, concessions or
concession operators, bingo supplies, or any other type of service. A
charitable organization shall not lease or sublease premises that it owns or
leases to more than three other charitable organizations per calendar week for
conducting bingo sessions on the premises. A person that is not a charitable
organization shall not lease premises that it owns, leases, or otherwise is
empowered to lease to more than three charitable organizations per calendar
week for conducting bingo sessions on the premises. In no case shall more than
nine bingo sessions be conducted on any premises in any calendar week;
      (2)   Display its license conspicuously at the premises where the bingo
session is conducted;
      (3)   Conduct the bingo session in accordance with division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (C)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for operating a bingo
session that is conducted by the charitable organization or for preparing,
selling, or serving food or beverages at the site of the bingo session, permit
any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to pay
compensation to any bingo game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or
beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable organization, or
permit any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to prepare,
sell, or serve food or beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable
organization, if the auxiliary unit or society pays any compensation to the
bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or serve the food or beverages;
      (2)   Pay consulting fees to any person for any services performed in
relation to the bingo session;
      (3)   Pay concession fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in the bingo session;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(4) of this section,
conduct more than three bingo sessions in any seven-day period. A volunteer
firefighter’s organization or a volunteer rescue service organization that
conducts not more than five bingo sessions in a calendar year may conduct more
than three bingo sessions in a seven-day period after notifying the Attorney
General when it will conduct the sessions;
      (5)   Pay out more than $6,000 in prizes for bingo games described in
R.C. § 2915.01(S)(1) during any bingo session that is conducted by the
charitable organization. “Prizes” does not include awards from the conduct of
instant bingo.
      (6)   Conduct a bingo session at any time during the eight-hour period
between 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m., at any time during, or within ten hours of, a
bingo game conducted for amusement only pursuant to R.C. § 2915.12 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, at any premises not specified on
its license, or on any day of the week or during any time period not specified
on its license. This division does not prohibit the sale of instant bingo
tickets beginning at 9:00 a.m. for a bingo session that begins at 10:00 a.m. If
circumstances make it impractical for the charitable organization to conduct a
bingo session at the premises, or on the day of the week or at the time
specified on its license or if a 168 charitable organization wants to conduct
bingo sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than the day or time
specified on its license, the charitable organization may apply in writing to
the Attorney General for an amended license pursuant to R.C.§ 2915.08(J). A
charitable organization may apply twice in each calendar year for an amended
license to conduct bingo sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than
the day or time specified on its license. If the amended license is granted,
the organization may conduct bingo sessions at the premises, on the day of the
week, and at the time specified on its amended license;
      (7)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, is under the age of 18 to work as a bingo game operator;
      (8)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any
jurisdiction to be a bingo game operator;
      (9)   Permit the lessor of the premises on which the bingo session is
conducted, if the lessor is not a charitable organization, to provide the
charitable organization with bingo game operators, security personnel,
concessions, bingo supplies, or any other type of service;
      (10)   Purchase or lease bingo supplies from any person except a
distributor issued a license under R.C. § 2915.081;
      (11)   (a)   Use or permit the use of electronic bingo aids except under
the following circumstances:
            1.   For any single participant, not more than 90 bingo faces can
be played using an electronic bingo aid or aids.
            2.   The charitable organization shall provide a participant using
an electronic bingo aid with corresponding paper bingo cards or sheets.
            3.   The total price of bingo faces played with an electronic bingo
aid shall be equal to the total price of the same number of bingo faces played
with a paper bingo card or sheet sold at the same bingo session but without an
electronic bingo aid.
            4.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be part of an electronic
network other than a network that includes only bingo aids and devices that are
located on the premises at which the bingo is being conducted or be interactive
with any device not located on the premises at which the bingo is being
conducted.
            5.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to participate in bingo
that is conducted at a location other than the location at which the bingo
session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
            6.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to provide for the
input of numbers and letters announced by a bingo caller other than the bingo
caller who physically calls the numbers and letters at the location at which
the bingo session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
         (b)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 119 that govern the use of electronic bingo aids. The rules may include
a requirement that an electronic bingo aid be capable of being audited by the
Attorney General to verify the number of bingo cards or sheets played during
each bingo session.
      (12)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, to be under 18 years of age to play bingo described in division (1)
of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section,
no charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator, and no bingo
game operator shall receive or accept, any commission, wage, salary, reward,
tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation, directly or indirectly,
regardless of the source, for conducting bingo or providing other work or labor
at the site of bingo during a bingo session.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section, no
charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator any commission,
wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation,
directly or indirectly regardless of the source, for conducting instant bingo,
electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session at the site of
instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (D) of this section prohibits an employee
of a fraternal organization, veteran’s organization, or sporting organization
from selling instant bingo tickets or cards to the organization’s members or
invited guests, as long as no portion of the employee’s compensation is paid
from any receipts of bingo.
   (E)   Notwithstanding division (B)(1) of this section, a charitable
organization that, prior to December 6, 1977, has entered into written
agreements for the lease of premises it owns to another charitable organization
or other charitable organizations for the conducting of bingo sessions so that
more than two bingo sessions are conducted per calendar week on the premises,
and a person that is not a charitable organization and that, prior to December
6, 1977, has entered into written agreements for the lease of premises it owns
to charitable organizations for the conducting of more than two bingo sessions
per calendar week on the premises, may continue to lease the premises to those
charitable organizations, provided that no more than four sessions are
conducted per calendar week, that the lessor organization or person has
notified the Attorney General in writing of the organizations that will conduct
the sessions and the days of the week and the times of the day on which the
sessions will be conducted, that the initial lease entered into with each
organization that will conduct the sessions was filed with the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977, and that each organization that will conduct the
sessions was issued a license to conduct bingo games by the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977.
   (F)   This section does not prohibit a bingo licensed charitable
organization or a game operator from giving any person an instant bingo ticket
as a prize.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of
illegally conducting a bingo game, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D)
of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2),
(B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D) of this section, a violation of division
(A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Whoever violates division (C)(12)
of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C)(12) of this
section, a violation of division (C)(12) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.09)
§ 134.07 RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo or a game of chance
pursuant to R.C. § 2915.02(D), or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall fail to maintain the following records for at least three
years from the date on which the bingo or game of chance is conducted:
      (1)   An itemized list of the gross receipts of each bingo session, each
game of instant bingo by serial number, each electronic instant bingo game by
serial number, each raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance, and
an itemized list of the gross profits of each game of instant bingo by serial
number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number;
      (2)   An itemized list of all expenses, other than prizes, that are
incurred in conducting bingo, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses;
      (3)   A list of all prizes awarded during each bingo session, each
raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance conducted by the
charitable organization, the total prizes awarded from each game of instant
bingo by serial number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number,
and the name, address, and social security number of all persons who are
winners of prizes of $600 or more in value;
      (4)   An itemized list of the recipients of the net profit of bingo or
game of chance, including the name and address of each recipient to whom the
money is distributed, and if the organization uses the net profit of bingo, or
the money or assets received from a game of chance, for any charitable or other
purpose set forth in R.C. § 2915.01(V), R.C. § 2915.02(D), or R.C. § 2915.101,
a list of each purpose and an itemized list of each expenditure for each
purpose;
      (5)   The number of persons who participate in any bingo session or game
of chance that is conducted by the charitable organization;
      (6)   A list of receipts from the sale of food and beverages by the
charitable organization or one of its auxiliary units or societies, if the
receipts were excluded from “gross receipts” under R.C. § 2915.01(T);
      (7)   An itemized list of all expenses incurred at each bingo session,
each raffle, each punch board game, or each game of instant bingo or electronic
instant bingo conducted by the charitable organization in the sale of food and
beverages by the charitable organization or by an auxiliary unit or society of
the charitable organization, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses.
   (B)   A charitable organization shall keep the records that it is required
to maintain pursuant to division (A) of this section at its principal place of
business in this state or at its headquarters in this state and shall notify
the Attorney General of the location at which those records are kept.
   (C)   The gross profit from each bingo session or game described in division
(1) or (2) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall be deposited
into a checking account devoted exclusively to the bingo session or game.
Payments for allowable expenses incurred in conducting the bingo session or
game and payments to recipients of some or all of the net profit of the bingo
session or game shall be made only by checks or electronic fund transfers drawn
on the bingo session or game account.
   (D)   Each charitable organization shall conduct and record an inventory of
all of its bingo supplies as of the first day of November of each year.
   (E)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C. Chapter
119 that establish standards of accounting, record keeping, and reporting to
ensure that gross receipts from bingo or games of chance are properly accounted
for.
   (F)   A distributor shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing to another person bingo supplies for use in this state.
The record shall include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name of the manufacturer from which the distributor purchased
the bingo supplies and the date of the purchase;
      (2)   The name and address of the charitable organization or other
distributor to which the bingo supplies were sold or otherwise provided;
      (3)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies;
      (4)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each charitable organization.
   (G)   A manufacturer shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing bingo supplies for use in this state. The record shall
include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name and address of the distributor to whom the bingo supplies
were sold or otherwise provided;
      (2)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies, including
serial numbers;
      (3)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each distributor.
   (H)   (1)   The Attorney General or any law enforcement agency may do all of
the following:
         (a)   Investigate any charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer or any officer, agent, trustee, member, or employee of the
organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         (b)   Examine the accounts and records of the charitable organization,
distributor, or manufacturer or of any officer, agent, trustee, member, or
employee of the organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         (c)   Conduct inspections, audits, and observations of bingo or games
of chance;
         (d)   Conduct inspections of the premises where bingo or games of
chance are conducted or where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed;
         (e)   Take any other necessary and reasonable action to determine if a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 has occurred
and to determine whether R.C. § 2915.11, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, has been complied with.
      (2)   If any law enforcement agency has reasonable grounds to believe
that a charitable organization, distributor, or manufacturer or an officer,
agent, trustee, member, or employee of the organization, distributor, or
manufacturer has violated any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
the law enforcement agency may proceed by action in the proper court to enforce
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, provided that the law enforcement agency
shall give written notice to the Attorney General when commencing an action as
described in this division.
   (I)   No person shall destroy, alter, conceal, withhold, or deny access to
any accounts or records of a charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer that have been requested for examination, or obstruct, impede, or
interfere with any inspection, audit, or observation of bingo or a game of
chance, of premises where bingo or a game of chance is conducted, or of
premises where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed, or refuse to
comply with any reasonable request of, or obstruct, impede, or interfere with
any other reasonable action undertaken by, the Attorney General or a law
enforcement agency pursuant to division (H) of this section.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (A) or (I) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.10)
§ 134.08 REQUIREMENTS FOR BINGO GAME OPERATORS.
   (A)   No person shall be a bingo game operator unless the person is 18 years
of age or older.
   (B)   No person who has been convicted of a felony or a gambling offense in
any jurisdiction shall be a bingo game operator.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. Whoever violates division (B) of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.11)
§ 134.09 BINGO GAMES FOR AMUSEMENT ONLY.
   (A)   Sections
134.06 through
134.13 and
134.15 do not apply to bingo games that are conducted for the purpose of
amusement only. A bingo game is conducted for the purpose of amusement only if
it complies with all of the requirements specified in either division (A)(1) or
(A)(2) of this section.
      (1)   (a)   The participants do not pay any money or any other thing of
value, including an admission fee or any fee, for bingo cards or sheets,
objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo, for the
privilege of participating in the bingo game, or to defray any costs of the
game, or pay tips or make donations during or immediately before or after the
bingo game.
         (b)   All prizes awarded during the course of the game are non-
monetary, and in the form of merchandise, goods, or entitlement to goods or
services only, and the total value of all prizes awarded during the game is
less than $100.
         (c)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity,
or other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         (d)   The bingo game is not conducted either during or within ten
hours of any of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.11 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
            2.   A scheme or game of chance, or bingo described in R.C. §
2915.01(O)(2).
         (e)   The number of players participating in the bingo game does not
exceed 50.
      (2)   (a)   The participants do not pay money or any other thing of value
as an admission fee, and no participant is charged more than $0.25 to purchase
a bingo card or sheet, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo.
         (b)   The total amount of money paid by all of the participants for
bingo cards or sheets, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo does not exceed $100.
         (c)   All of the money paid for bingo cards or sheets, objects to
cover spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo is used only to pay
winners monetary and nonmonetary prizes and to provide refreshments.
         (d)   The total value of all prizes awarded during the game does not
exceed $100.
         (e)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity,
or other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         (f)   The bingo game is not conducted during or within ten hours of
either of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.15 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   A scheme of chance or a game of chance, or bingo described in
R.C. § 2915.01(O)(2).
         (g)   All of the participants reside at the premises where the bingo
game is conducted.
         (h)   The bingo games are conducted on different days of the week and
not more than twice in a calendar week.
   (B)   The Attorney General or any local law enforcement agency may
investigate the conduct of a bingo game that purportedly is conducted for
purposes of amusement only if there is reason to believe that the purported
amusement bingo game does not comply with the requirements of either division
(A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section. A local law enforcement agency may proceed by
action in the proper court to enforce this section if the local law enforcement
agency gives written notice to the Attorney General when commencing the action.
(R.C. § 2915.12)
§ 134.10 PROHIBITIONS WHERE INSTANT BINGO GAME IS CONDUCTED.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts instant bingo shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2915.09(A)(1), (A)
(2), and (A)(3), or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   Conduct instant bingo unless either of the following applies:
         (a)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), is
described in IRC § 501(c)(3), is a charitable organization as defined in R.C. §
2915.01, is in good standing in the state pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08, and is in
compliance with R.C. Chapter 1716;
         (b)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), is
described in IRC § 501(c)(7), (c)(8), (c)(10), or (c)(19) or is a veteran’s
organization described in IRC § 501(c)(4), and conducts instant bingo under
R.C. § 2915.13.
      (3)   Conduct instant bingo on any day, at any time, or at any premises
not specified on the organization’s license issued pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08;
      (4)   Permit any person whom the organization knows or should have known
has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction to be a
bingo game operator in the conduct of instant bingo;
      (5)   Purchase or lease supplies used to conduct instant bingo or punch
board games from any person except a distributor licensed under R.C. §
2915.081;
      (6)   Sell or provide any instant bingo ticket or card for a price
different from the price printed on it by the manufacturer on either the
instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare;
      (7)   Sell an instant bingo ticket or card to a person under 18 years of
age;
      (8)   Fail to keep unsold instant bingo tickets or cards for less than
three years;
      (9)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting
instant bingo that is conducted by the organization or for preparing, selling,
or serving food or beverages at the site of the instant bingo game, permit any
auxiliary unit or society of the organization to pay compensation to any bingo
game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or beverages at an instant
bingo game conducted by the organization, or permit any auxiliary unit or
society of the organization to prepare, sell, or serve food or beverages at an
instant bingo game conducted by the organization, if the auxiliary unit or
society pays any compensation to the bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or
serve the food or beverages;
      (10)   Pay fees to any person for any services performed in relation to
an instant bingo game, except as provided in R.C. § 2915.093(D);
      (11)   Pay fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in an instant bingo game;
      (12)   (a)   Allow instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold to bingo
game operators at a premises at which the organization sells instant bingo
tickets or cards or to be sold to employees of a D permit holder who are
working at a premises at which instant bingo tickets or cards are sold;
         (b)   Division (A)(12)(a) of this section does not prohibit a licensed
charitable organization or a bingo game operator from giving any person an
instant bingo ticket as a prize in place of a cash prize won by a participant
in an instant bingo game. In no case shall an instant bingo ticket or card be
sold or provided for a price different from the price printed on it by the
manufacturer on either the instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare.
      (13)   Fail to display its bingo license, and the serial numbers of the
deal of instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold, conspicuously at each
premises at which it sells instant bingo tickets or cards;
      (14)   Possess a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards that was not
purchased from a distributor licensed under R.C. § 2915.081 as reflected on an
invoice issued by the distributor that contains all of the information required
by R.C. § 2915.10(E);
      (15)   Fail, once it opens a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards, to
continue to sell the tickets or cards in that deal until the tickets or cards
with the top two highest tiers of prizes in that deal are sold;
      (16)   Possess bingo supplies that were not obtained in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (B)   A charitable organization may purchase, lease, or use instant bingo
ticket dispensers to sell instant bingo tickets or cards.
   (C)   Pursuant to R.C. § 2915.091(C), the Attorney General may adopt rules
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 119 that govern the conduct of instant bingo by
charitable organizations.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section or a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (A) of this section or of such a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.091)
§ 134.11 RAFFLE DRAWINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) of this section, a person or entity
may conduct a raffle to raise money for the person or entity and does not need
a license to conduct bingo in order to conduct a raffle drawing that is not for
profit if the person or entity is any of the following:
         (a)   Exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
         (b)   A school district, community school established under R.C.
Chapter 3314, STEM school established under R.C. Chapter 3326, college-
preparatory boarding school established under R.C. Chapter 3328, or chartered
nonpublic school;
         (c)   Exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(4), 501(c)(6), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or
501(c)(19).
      (2)   If a person or entity that is described in division (A)(1)(c) of
this section conducts a raffle, the person or entity shall distribute at least
50% of the net profit from the raffle to a charitable purpose described in R.C.
§ 2915.01(V) or to a department or agency of the federal government, the state,
or any political subdivision.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A) of this section, no person shall
conduct a raffle drawing that is for profit or a raffle drawing that is not for
profit.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegal
conduct of a raffle. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal
conduct of a raffle is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (B) of this section,
illegal conduct of a raffle is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2915.092)
§ 134.12 INSTANT BINGO OTHER THAN AT BINGO SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, RETAIL INCOME FROM ALL COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY
means the income that a person receives from the provision of goods, services,
or activities that are provided at the location where instant bingo other than
at a bingo session is conducted, including the sale of instant bingo tickets. A
religious organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §
501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), at not more than one location at which
it conducts its charitable programs, may include donations from its members and
guests as retail income.
   (B)   (1)   If a charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant
bingo other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08, the charitable instant bingo organization shall enter into a written
contract with the owner or lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is
conducted to allow the owner or lessor to assist in the conduct of instant
bingo other than at a bingo session, identify each location where the instant
bingo other than at a bingo session is being conducted, and identify the owner
or lessor of each location.
      (2)   A charitable instant bingo organization that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C. §
2915.08 is not required to enter into a written contract with the owner or
lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is conducted provided that
the owner or lessor is not assisting in the conduct of the instant bingo other
than at a bingo session and provided that the conduct of the instant bingo
other than at a bingo session at that location is not more than five days per
calendar year and not more than ten hours per day.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (F) of this section, no charitable
instant bingo organization shall conduct instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at a location where the primary source of retail income from all
commercial activity at that location is the sale of instant bingo tickets.
   (D)   (1)   The owner or lessor of a location that enters into a contract
pursuant to division (B) of this section shall pay the full gross profit to the
charitable instant bingo organization, in return for the deal of instant bingo
tickets. The owner or lessor may retain the money that the owner or lessor
receives for selling the instant bingo tickets, provided, however, that after
the deal has been sold, the owner or lessor shall pay to the charitable instant
bingo organization the value of any unredeemed instant bingo prizes remaining
in the deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (2)   The charitable instant bingo organization shall pay 6% of the total
gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets for the purpose of
reimbursing the owner or lessor for expenses described in this division.
      (3)   As used in this division, EXPENSES means those items provided for
in R.C. § 2915.01(GG)(4), (GG)(5), (GG)(6), (GG)(7), (GG)(8), (GG)(12), and
(GG)(13) and that percentage of the owner’s or lessor’s rent for the location
where instant bingo is conducted. Expenses, in the aggregate, shall not exceed
6% of the total gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (4)   As used in this division, FULL GROSS PROFIT means the amount by
which the total receipts of all instant bingo tickets, if the deal has been
sold in full, exceeds the amount that would be paid out if all prizes were
redeemed.
   (E)   A charitable instant bingo organization shall provide the Attorney
General with all of the following information:
      (1)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has terminated a
contract entered into pursuant to division (B) of this section with an owner or
lessor of a location;
      (2)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has entered into a
written contract pursuant to division (B) of this section with a new owner or
lessor of a location;
      (3)   That the charitable instant bingo organization is aware of conduct
by the owner or lessor of a location at which instant bingo is conducted that
is in violation of R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (F)   Division (C) of this section does not apply to a volunteer
firefighter’s organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under
IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session on the premises where the organization conducts
firefighter training, that has conducted instant bingo continuously for at
least five years prior to July 1, 2003, and that, during each of those five
years, had gross receipts of at least $1,500,000.
(R.C. § 2915.093)
   (G)   (1)   Subject to the requirements of R.C. §§ 2915.14 and 2915.15
concerning electronic instant bingo, a veteran's organization, a fraternal
organization, or a sporting organization authorized to conduct a bingo session
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2915 may conduct instant bingo, electronic instant
bingo, or both other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08 if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to 12
hours during any day, provided that the sale does not begin earlier than 10:00
a.m. and ends not later than 2:00 a.m.
         (b)   The veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to
its own premises and to its own members and invited guests.
         (c)   The veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization is raising money for an organization that is described in IRC §
509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an
organization that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that
is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC
§ 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this state and executes a written
contract with that organization as required in division (G)(2) of this section.
      (2)   If a veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo
pursuant to division (G)(1) of this section is raising money for another
organization that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is
either a governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal
place of business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good standing
in this state, the veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall execute a written contract with the organization that is
described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental
unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of business in this
state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good standing in this state in order
to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo. That contract shall
include a statement of the percentage of the net proceeds that the veteran's,
fraternal, or sporting organization will be distributing to the organization
that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of
business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §
501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this
state.
      (3)   (a)   If a veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or
sporting organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo pursuant to division (G)(1) of this section has been issued a liquor
permit under R.C. Chapter 4303, that permit may be subject to suspension,
revocation, or cancellation if the veteran's organization, fraternal
organization, or sporting organization violates a provision of this chapter or
R.C. Chapter 2915.
         (b)   No veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that enters into a written contract pursuant to division (G)(2) of
this section shall violate any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
or permit, aid, or abet any other person in violating any provision of this
chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
      (4)   A veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall give all required proceeds earned from the conduct of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to the organization with which the
veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting organization has
entered into a written contract.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (G) of this section is guilty of illegal
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, illegal instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (G) of this section, illegal instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.13)
§ 134.13 RESTRICTIONS ON OWNER OR LESSOR OF LOCATION AT INSTANT BINGO.
   (A)   No owner or lessor of a location shall assist a charitable instant
bingo organization in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at that location unless the owner or lessor has entered into a written
contract, as described in R.C. § 2915.093, with the charitable instant bingo
organization to assist in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session.
   (B)   The location of the lessor or owner shall be designated as a location
where the charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session.
   (C)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate any provision of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, or permit, aid, or abet any other person in
violating any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (D)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate the terms of the
contract.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty
of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C) or
(D) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If an owner or lessor of a location knowingly, intentionally, or
recklessly violates division (C) or (D) of this section, any license that the
owner or lessor holds for the retail sale of any goods on the owner’s or
lessor’s premises that is issued by the state or a political subdivision is
subject to suspension, revocation, or payment of a monetary penalty at the
request of the Attorney General.
(R.C. § 2915.094)
§ 134.14 SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINES; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall give to another person any item described in division
(1), (2), (3), or (4) of the definition for “merchandise prize” in §
134.01 in exchange for a noncash prize, toy, or novelty received as a reward
for playing or operating a skill-based amusement machine or for a free or
reduced-price game won on a skill-based amusement machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of skill-based
amusement machine prohibited conduct. A violation of division (A) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree for each redemption of a prize
that is involved in the violation. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (A) of this section, a violation of that
division is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.06)
   (C)   Any regulation of skill-based amusement machines shall be governed by
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 and not by R.C. Chapter 1345.
(R.C. § 2915.061)
§ 134.15 ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No charitable organization shall conduct electronic instant bingo
unless all of the following are true:
      (1)   The organization is a veteran's organization described in R.C. §
2915.01(J), or is a fraternal organization described in R.C. § 2915.01(L), and
the organization qualified as a veteran's organization or fraternal
organization, as applicable, on or before June 30, 2021.
      (2)   The organization is a veteran's organization described in IRC § 501
(c)(4) or is, and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the organization
is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), and is described in
IRC § 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or 501(c)(19).
      (3)   The organization has not conducted a raffle in violation of R.C. §
2915.092(B) using an electronic raffle machine, as described in Ohio Veterans
and Fraternal Charitable Coalition v. DeWine, Case No. 13-CV-13610 (C.P.
Franklin Co. February 23, 2018), at any time on or after January 1, 2022.
   (B)   No charitable organization that conducts electronic instant bingo
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Possess an electronic instant bingo system that was not obtained in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 2915 or with any rule adopted under R.C. Chapter
2915;
      (2)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on any day, at any time, or on any
premises not specified on the organization's type II or type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Hold more than one valid license to conduct electronic instant
bingo at any one time;
      (4)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on more than one premises or on
any premises other than the charitable organization's principal place of
business;
      (5)   Operate more than ten electronic bingo systems at the premises on
which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo under its
license;
      (6)   Fail to display both of the following conspicuously at the premises
on which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo:
         (a)   The charitable organization's bingo license;
         (b)   The serial number of each deal of electronic instant bingo
tickets being sold.
      (7)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should have
known, to be under 18 years of age to play electronic instant bingo;
      (8)   Sell or provide to any person an electronic instant bingo ticket
for a price different from the price displayed on the game flare for that deal,
except that the charitable organization may give a participant who wins an
electronic instant bingo game an electronic instant bingo ticket as a prize in
place of a cash prize;
      (9)   Fail, once an electronic instant bingo deal is begun, to continue
to sell tickets in that deal until all prizes have been awarded;
      (10)   Permit any person whom the organization knows, or should have
known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction
to be a bingo game operator in the conduct of electronic instant bingo;
      (11)   Permit a bingo game operator to play electronic instant bingo;
      (12)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(12)(b) of this
section, pay compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting electronic
instant bingo.
         (b)   Division (B)(12)(a) of this section does not prohibit an
employee of a veteran's organization or fraternal organization from redeeming
electronic instant bingo tickets or vouchers for the organization's members or
invited guests, so long as no portion of the employee's compensation is paid
from any bingo receipts.
      (13)   Pay consulting fees to any person in relation to electronic
instant bingo.
   (C)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or otherwise provide or offer to
provide an electronic instant bingo system to any person for use in this
municipality unless the electronic instant bingo system has been approved under
R.C. § 2915.15.
   (D)   Whoever knowingly violates division (A), (B), or (C) of this section
or a rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.14(D) is guilty of illegal electronic
instant bingo conduct. Illegal electronic instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or state law, or of a rule adopted
under R.C. § 2915.14(D), illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.14)
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
135.01   Definitions
   
135.02   Negligent homicide
   
135.03   Vehicular homicide; vehicular manslaughter; vehicular assault
   
135.04   Assault; negligent assault
   
135.05   Injury to persons by hunters
   
135.06   Menacing; aggravated menacing; menacing by stalking
   
135.07   Unlawful restraint
   
135.08   [Reserved]
   
135.09   Coercion
   
135.10   Bigamy
   
135.11   Unlawful abortion; failure to perform viability testing; abortion
trafficking
   
135.12   Misrepresentation relating to provision of child care
   
135.13   Nonsupport of dependents
   
135.14   Endangering children
   
135.15   Interference with custody; interference with support orders
   
135.16   Domestic violence
   
135.17   Hazing prohibited
   
135.18   Contributing to unruliness or delinquency of a child
   
135.19   Failure to provide for a person with a functional impairment
   
135.20   Patient abuse or neglect; patient endangerment; exceptions; false
statements; retaliation
   
135.21   Interference with right of person to engage in housing transactions
because of race, religion, or the like
   
135.22   Ethnic intimidation
   
135.23   Violating a protection order, consent agreement, anti-stalking
protection order or order issued by a court of another state
   
135.24   Adulteration of food
   
135.25   Illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products; transaction scans
   
135.26   Nonsmoking areas in places of public assembly
   
135.27   Spreading contagion
   
135.28   Abuse of a corpse
   
135.29   Unlawful collection of bodily substances
Statutory reference:
   Child care, misrepresentations by providers and failure to disclose death or
serious injuries, misdemeanors, see R.C. §§ 2919.223 et seq.
   Extortionate extension of credit, see R.C. §§ 2905.21 through 2905.24
   Failure to send child to school, see R.C. § 3321.38
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
   Reckless homicide, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.041
   Rights of victims of crimes, see R.C. Chapter 2930
§ 135.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of §§
135.01 through
135.06, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ANOTHER’S UNBORN or OTHER PERSON’S UNBORN. A member of the species Homo
sapiens who is or was carried in the womb of another during a period that
begins with fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth
occurs.
      UNLAWFUL TERMINATION OF ANOTHER’S PREGNANCY. Causing the death of an
unborn member of the species Homo sapiens who is or was carried in the womb of
another, as a result of injuries inflicted during the period that begins with
fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth occurs.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) of this section, in no case shall the
definitions of the terms “another’s unborn”, “other person’s unborn” and
“unlawful termination of another’s pregnancy” that are set forth in division
(A) of this section be applied or construed in any of the following manners:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(1) of this section, in
a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as prohibiting any
pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion with the consent of
the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman implied by law in a
medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise authorized by law to
consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant woman. An abortion that
violates the conditions described in the immediately preceding sentence may be
punished as any violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04,
2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.14, 2903.21 or
2903.22, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, as applicable. An
abortion that does not violate the conditions described in the second
immediately preceding sentence but that does violate R.C. § 2919.12, 2919.13
(B), 2919.15, 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of such section, as
applicable.
      (2)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
         (a)   Her delivery of a stillborn baby.
         (b)   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying.
         (c)   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human.
         (d)   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human.
         (e)   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
(R.C. § 2903.09)
§ 135.02 NEGLIGENT HOMICIDE.
   (A)   No person shall negligently cause the death of another or the unlawful
termination of another’s pregnancy by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of negligent homicide, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2903.05)
Statutory reference:
   Reckless homicide, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.041
§ 135.03 VEHICULAR HOMICIDE; VEHICULAR MANSLAUGHTER; VEHICULAR ASSAULT.
   (A)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle, motorcycle, snowmobile, locomotive, watercraft, or aircraft,
shall cause the death of another or the unlawful termination of another’s
pregnancy in any of the following ways:
      (1)   (a)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4511.19(A) or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
1547.11(A), or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         (c)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4561.15(A)(3), or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Recklessly;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a reckless operation offense, provided that this division
applies only if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is
unlawfully terminated is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s
commission of the reckless operation offense in the construction zone and does
not apply as described in division (D) of this section.
      (3)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Negligently;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this division applies only
if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is unlawfully terminated
is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s commission of the
speeding offense in the construction zone and does not apply as described in
division (D) of this section.
      (4)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of any provision
of any section contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor or of a
municipal ordinance that, regardless of the penalty set by ordinance for the
violation, is substantially equivalent to any provision of any section
contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of aggravated vehicular homicide, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) of this section is guilty of
vehicular homicide. Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
homicide is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular homicide committed in
violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving
under a suspension or cancellation imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other
provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was operating a motor vehicle or
motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege, and was not eligible for renewal of the offender’s driver’s license
or commercial driver’s license without examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of this section or any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault
offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class four suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of
vehicular manslaughter. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
vehicular manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the second degree. Vehicular
manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the first degree if, at the time of the
offense, the offender was driving under a suspension or cancellation imposed
under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was
operating a motor vehicle or motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege, and was not eligible for renewal
of the offender’s driver’s license or commercial driver’s license without
examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or any traffic-
related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class six suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6) or, if the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, any
traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense, or a traffic-
related murder, felonious assault, or attempted murder offense, a class four
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
   (C)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least 15 days on an
offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation of
division (A)(3)(b) of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
   (D)   Divisions (A)(2)(b) and (A)(3)(b) of this section do not apply in a
particular construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. §
2903.081 are erected in that construction zone in accordance with the
guidelines and design specifications established by the Director of
Transportation under R.C. § 5501.27. The failure to erect signs of the type
described in R.C. § 2903.081 in a particular construction zone in accordance
with those guidelines and design specifications does not limit or affect the
application of division (A)(1), (A)(2)(a), (A)(3)(a), or (A)(4) of this section
in that construction zone or the prosecution of any person who violates any of
those divisions in that construction zone.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section:
         CONSTRUCTION ZONE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
         RECKLESS OPERATION OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 4511.20 or a
municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to R.C. § 4511.20.
         SPEEDING OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 4511.21 or a municipal
ordinance pertaining to speed.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER, OR ASSAULT OFFENSE. Means a
violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in circumstances in which division (D) of that
section applies, a violation of R.C. § 2903.06 or 2903.08, or a violation of
R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.07, or 2903.08 as they existed prior to March 23, 2000.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED MURDER, FELONIOUS ASSAULT, OR ATTEMPTED MURDER
OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 in circumstances
in which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to commit the
violation, a violation of R.C. § 2903.11(A)(2) in circumstances in which the
deadly weapon used in the commission of the violation is a motor vehicle, or an
attempt to commit aggravated murder or murder in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 in
circumstances in which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to
attempt to commit the aggravated murder or murder.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, when a penalty or suspension is
enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a prior
or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the specified
law or the specified offense includes any violation of any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or current or former
law of this or another state or the United States.
(R.C. § 2903.06)
   (F)   Vehicular assault.
      (1)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle or motorcycle, shall cause serious physical harm to another
person or another’s unborn as the proximate result of committing, while
operating or participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in
a construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this division applies
only if the person to whom the serious physical harm is caused or to whose
unborn the serious physical harm is caused is in the construction zone at the
time of the offender’s commission of the speeding offense in the construction
zone and does not apply as described in division (F)(4) of this section.
      (2)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
assault committed in violation of division (F)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular assault committed in violation of
division (F)(1) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving under a
suspension imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio
Revised Code or if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (F)(1) of this section, R.C. § 2903.08, or
any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed, the court shall
impose upon the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least seven days
on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation
of division (F)(1) of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
      (4)   Division (F)(1) of this section does not apply in a particular
construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. § 2903.081 are
erected in that construction zone in accordance with the guidelines and design
specifications established by the Director of Transportation under R.C. §
5501.27.
      (5)   As used in this division (F):
         CONSTRUCTION ZONE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         SPEEDING OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER, OR ASSAULT OFFENSE. Has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
      (6)   For the purposes of this division (F), when a penalty or suspension
is enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a
prior or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the
specified law or the specified offense includes any violation of any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or
current or former law of another state or the United States.
(R.C. 2903.08(A)(3), (C)(3), (D)(3), (E) - (G))
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated vehicular assault, felony, see R.C. § 2903.08
   Trial court to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. § 4510.05
§ 135.04 ASSAULT; NEGLIGENT ASSAULT.
   (A)   Assault.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm
to another or to another’s unborn.
      (2)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to another
or to another’s unborn.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of assault. Except as provided in R.C. § 2903.13(C), assault is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to assault when
it is a misdemeanor also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification as
described in R.C. § 2941.1423 (victim of the offense was a woman whom the
defendant knew was pregnant at the time of the offense) that was included in
the indictment, count in the indictment, or information charging the offense,
the court shall sentence the offender to a mandatory jail term as provided in
R.C. § 2929.24(F).
      (5)   A prosecution for a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this
section does not preclude a prosecution of a violation of any other section of
the Ohio Revised Code. One or more acts, a series of acts, or a course of
behavior that can be prosecuted under division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section
or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under division
(A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section, the other section of the Ohio Revised Code,
or both sections. However, if an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section and also is convicted of
or pleads guilty to a violation of R.C. § 2903.22, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, based on the same conduct involving the same
victim that was the basis of the violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this
section, the offenses are allied offenses of similar import under R.C. §
2941.25.
(R.C. § 2903.13)
   (B)   Negligent assault.
      (1)   No person shall negligently, by means of a deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, cause physical harm to another
or to another’s unborn.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
negligent assault, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 2903.14)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated and felonious assault, see R.C. §§ 2903.11 and 2903.12
   Felony assault offenses, see R.C. § 2903.13(C)
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
   Persons who may seek relief under anti-stalking protection order; ex parte
orders, see R.C. § 2903.214
   Protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. § 2903.213
   Strangulation, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.18
   Vehicular assault and aggravated vehicular assault, felony offenses, see
R.C. § 2903.08
§ 135.05 INJURY TO PERSONS BY HUNTERS.
   (A)   No person in the act of hunting, pursuing, taking, or killing a wild
animal shall act in a negligent, careless, or reckless manner so as to injure
persons.
(R.C. § 1533.171(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Violation, license revocation, see R.C. § 1533.171(B) through (E)
§ 135.06 MENACING; AGGRAVATED MENACING; MENACING BY STALKING.
   (A)   Menacing.
      (1)   (a)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person's unborn, or a member of the other person's immediate
family. In addition to any other basis for the other person's belief that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person's unborn, or a member of the other person's immediate
family, the other person's belief may be based on words or conduct of the
offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or other
organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
         (b)   No person shall knowingly place or attempt to place another in
reasonable fear of physical harm or death by displaying a deadly weapon,
regardless of whether the deadly weapon displayed is operable or inoperable, if
either of the following applies:
            1.   The other person is an emergency service responder, the person
knows or reasonably should know that the other person is an emergency service
responder, and it is the person's specific purpose to engage in the specified
conduct against an emergency service responder.
            2.   The other person is a family or household member or co-worker
of an emergency service responder, the person knows or reasonably should know
that the other person is a family or household member or co-worker of an
emergency service responder, and it is the person's specific purpose to engage
in the specified conduct against a family or household member or co-worker of
an emergency service responder.
      (2)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of menacing. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, menacing is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If the victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a public
children services agency or a private child placing agency and the offense
relates to the officer's or employee's performance or anticipated performance
of official responsibilities or duties or if the victim of the offense is an
emergency service responder in the performance of the responder's official
duties, menacing is one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2)(b) of this
section, a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency or an emergency service responder, and that prior offense
related to the officer's or employee's performance or anticipated performance
of official responsibilities or duties or to the responder's performance of the
responder's official duties, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   A prosecution for a violation of division (A) of this section does
not preclude a prosecution of a violation of any other section of the Ohio
Revised Code. One or more acts, a series of acts, or a course of behavior that
can be prosecuted under division (A) of this section or any other section of
the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under division (A) of this section, the
other section of the Ohio Revised Code, or both sections. However, if an
offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (A) of
this section and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of R.C. §
2903.13, or any substantially similar municipal ordinance, based on the same
conduct involving the same victim that was the basis of the violation of
division (A) of this section, the offenses are allied offenses of similar
import under R.C. § 2941.25.
      (4)   As used in this section:
         CO-WORKER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 2903.13.
         EMERGENCY SERVICE RESPONDER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. §
2903.13.
         FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
2903.13.
         ORGANIZATION. Includes an entity that is a governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.22)
   (B)   Aggravated menacing.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the
offender will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the
other person, such other person’s unborn, or a member of such other person’s
immediate family. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief
that the offender will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of
the other person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s
immediate family, the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of
the offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or
other organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
aggravated menacing. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(2),
aggravated menacing is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the victim of the
offense is an officer or employee of a public children services agency or a
private child placing agency and the offense relates to the officer’s or
employee’s performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities
or duties, aggravated menacing is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties,
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   As used in this division (B), ORGANIZATION includes an entity that
is a governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.21)
   (C)   Menacing by stalking.
      (1)   (a)   No person by engaging in a pattern of conduct shall knowingly
cause another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
the other person or a family or household member of the other person or cause
mental distress to the other person or a family or household member of the
other person. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that
the offender will cause physical harm to the other person or the other person’s
family or household member or mental distress to the other person or the other
person’s family or household member, the other person’s belief or mental
distress may be based on words or conduct of the offender that are directed at
or identify a corporation, association, or other organization that employs the
other person or to which the other person belongs.
         (b)   No person, through the use of any form of written communication
or any electronic method of remotely transferring information, including but
not limited to any computer, computer network, computer program, computer
system, or telecommunication device, shall post a message or use any
intentionally written or verbal graphic gesture with purpose to do either of
the following:
            1.   Violate division (C)(1)(a) of this section;
            2.   Urge or incite another to commit a violation of division (C)
(1)(a) of this section.
         (c)   No person, with a sexual motivation, shall violate division (C)
(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this section.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of
menacing by stalking.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2)(b) of this
section, menacing by stalking is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   Menacing by stalking is a felony, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law, if any of the following applies:
            1.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 2903.211 or a violation of R.C. § 2911.211, or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to either of these offenses.
            2.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender made a threat of physical harm to or
against the victim, or as a result of an offense committed under division (C)
(1)(b) or (C)(1)(c) of this section, a third person induced by the offender’s
posted message made a threat of physical harm to or against the victim.
            3.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender trespassed on the land or premises
where the victim lives, is employed, or attends school, or as a result of an
offense committed under division (C)(1)(b) or (C)(1)(c) of this section, a
third person induced by the offender’s posted message trespassed on the land or
premises where the victim lives, is employed, or attends school.
            4.   The victim of the offense is a minor.
            5.   The offender has a history of violence towards the victim or
any other person or a history of other violent acts towards the victim or any
other person.
            6.   While committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a) of this
section or a violation of division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on conduct
in violation of division (C)(1)(a) of this section, the offender had a deadly
weapon on or about the offender’s person or under the offender’s control.
Division (C)(2)(b)6. of this section does not apply in determining the penalty
for a violation of division (C)(1)(b) of this section or a violation of
division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on conduct in violation of division
(C)(1)(b) of this section.
            7.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
the subject of a protection order issued under R.C. § 2903.213 or R.C. §
2903.214, regardless of whether or not the person to be protected under the
order is the victim of the offense or another person.
            8.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender caused serious physical harm to the
premises at which the victim resides, to the real property on which that
premises is located, or to any personal property located on that premises, or
as a result of an offense committed under division (C)(1)(b) of this section or
an offense committed under division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on a
violation of division (C)(1)(b) of this section, a third person induced by the
offender’s posted message caused serious physical harm to that premises, that
real property, or any personal property on that premises.
            9.   Prior to committing the offense, the offender had been
determined to represent a substantial risk of physical harm to others as
manifested by evidence of then-recent homicidal or other violent behavior,
evidence of then-recent threats that placed another in reasonable fear of
violent behavior and serious harm, or other evidence of then-present
dangerousness.
            10.   The victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a
public children services agency or a private child placing agency and the
offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated
performance of official responsibilities or duties.
            11.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties.
      (3)   R.C. § 2919.271 applies in relation to a defendant charged with a
violation of this section.
      (4)   As used in division (C) of this section:
         COMPUTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         COMPUTER NETWORK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         COMPUTER PROGRAM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         COMPUTER SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
         EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency
medical services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
         FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
            1.   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
person against whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this section is
committed:
               a.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse
of the person;
               b.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the person, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the person;
               c.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse,
or former spouse of the person, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
person.
            2.   The natural parent of any child of whom the person against
whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this section is committed is
the other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
         MENTAL DISTRESS. Means any of the following:
            1.   Any mental illness or condition that involves some temporary
substantial incapacity;
            2.   Any mental illness or condition that would normally require
psychiatric treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health
services, whether or not any person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health services.
         ORGANIZATION. Includes an entity that is a governmental employer.
         PATTERN OF CONDUCT. Means two or more actions or incidents closely
related in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any
of those actions or incidents, or two or more actions or incidents closely
related in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any
of those actions or incidents, directed at one or more persons employed by or
belonging to the same corporation, association, or other organization. Actions
or incidents that prevent, obstruct, or delay the performance by a public
official, firefighter, rescuer, emergency medical services person, or emergency
facility person of any authorized act within the public official’s,
firefighter’s, rescuer’s, emergency medical services person’s, or emergency
facility person’s official capacity, or the posting of messages, use of
intentionally written or verbal graphic gestures, or receipt of information or
data through the use of any form of written communication or an electronic
method of remotely transferring information, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer program, computer system, or
telecommunications device, may constitute a “pattern of conduct.”
         PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived
with the person against whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this
section is committed in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is
cohabiting with that person, or who otherwise has cohabited with the person
within five years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in
question.
         POST A MESSAGE. Means transferring, sending, posting, publishing,
disseminating, or otherwise communicating, or attempting to transfer, send,
post, publish, disseminate, or otherwise communicate, any message or
information, whether truthful or untruthful, about an individual, and whether
done under one’s own name, under the name of another, or while impersonating
another.
         PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
         SEXUAL MOTIVATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2971.01.
         TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         THIRD PERSON. Means, in relation to conduct as described in division
(C)(1)(b) of this section, an individual who is neither the offender nor the
victim of the conduct.
      (5)   The prosecution does not need to prove in a prosecution under
division (C) of this section that a person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health services in order to
show that the person was caused mental distress as described in division (2) of
the definition for “mental distress” in this section.
      (6)   (a)   Division (C) of this section does not apply to a person
solely because the person provided access or connection to or from an
electronic method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s
control, including having provided capabilities that are incidental to
providing access or connection to or from the electronic method of remotely
transferring the information, and that do not include the creation of the
content of the material that is the subject of the access or connection. In
addition, any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic
method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control
shall not be liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the
receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it believes
is or will be sent in violation of division (C) of this section.
         (b)   Division (C)(6)(a) of this section does not create an
affirmative duty for any person providing access or connection to or from an
electronic method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s
control to block the receipt or transmission through its service of any
information that it believes is or will be sent in violation of division (C) of
this section except as otherwise provided by law.
         (c)   Division (C)(6)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of division (C) of this section or who
knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
(R.C. § 2903.211)
Cross-reference:
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.23
Statutory reference:
   Authority of corporations to seek protection orders in certain
circumstances, see R.C. § 2903.215
   Conditions of bail for violators, see R.C. § 2903.212
   Persons who may seek relief under anti-stalking protection order; ex parte
orders, see R.C. § 2903.214
   Protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. § 2903.213
§ 135.07 UNLAWFUL RESTRAINT.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly restrain
another of the other person’s liberty.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so and with a sexual motivation,
shall knowingly restrain another of the other person’s liberty.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful restraint, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, SEXUAL MOTIVATION has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2971.01.
(R.C. § 2905.03)
§ 135.08 [RESERVED]
§ 135.09 COERCION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to coerce another into taking or refraining
from action concerning which the other person has a legal freedom of choice,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Threaten to commit any offense.
      (2)   Utter or threaten any slander against any person.
      (3)   Expose or threaten to expose any matter tending to subject any
person to hatred, contempt, or ridicule, or to damage any person’s personal or
business repute, or to impair any person’s credit.
      (4)   Institute or threaten criminal proceedings against any person.
      (5)   Take or withhold, or threaten to take or withhold official action,
or cause or threaten to cause official action to be taken or withheld.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(4) and (A)(5) of this section shall not be construed to
prohibit a prosecutor or court from doing any of the following in good faith
and in the interests of justice:
      (1)   Offering or agreeing to grant, or granting immunity from
prosecution pursuant to R.C. § 2945.44.
      (2)   In return for a plea of guilty to one or more offenses charged or
to one or more other or lesser offenses, or in return for the testimony of the
accused in a case to which the accused is not a party, offering or agreeing to
dismiss, or dismissing one or more charges pending against an accused, or
offering or agreeing to impose, or imposing a certain sentence or modification
of sentence.
      (3)   Imposing a community control sanction on certain conditions,
including without limitation requiring the offender to make restitution or
redress to the victim of the offense.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3), (A)
(4), or (A)(5) of this section that the actor’s conduct was a reasonable
response to the circumstances which occasioned it, and that the actor’s purpose
was limited to any of the following:
      (1)   Compelling another to refrain from misconduct or to desist from
further misconduct.
      (2)   Preventing or redressing a wrong or injustice.
      (3)   Preventing another from taking action for which the actor
reasonably believed the other person to be disqualified.
      (4)   Compelling another to take action which the actor reasonably
believed the other person to be under a duty to take.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of coercion, a misdemeanor of
the second degree.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      COMMUNITY CONTROL SANCTION has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      THREAT includes a direct threat and a threat by innuendo.
(R.C. § 2905.12)
§ 135.10 BIGAMY.
   (A)   No married person shall marry another or continue to cohabit with such
other person in this municipality.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor’s spouse was continuously absent for five years immediately preceding the
purported subsequent marriage, and was not known by the actor to be alive
within that time.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of bigamy, a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
(R.C. § 2919.01)
§ 135.11 UNLAWFUL ABORTION; FAILURE TO PERFORM VIABILITY TESTING; ABORTION
TRAFFICKING.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ABORTION. Means the purposeful termination of a human pregnancy by any
person, including the pregnant woman herself, with an intention other than to
produce a live birth or to remove a dead fetus or embryo.
(R.C. § 2919.11)
      EMANCIPATED. A minor shall be considered emancipated if the minor has
married, entered the armed services of the United States, become employed and
self-subsisting, or has otherwise become independent from the care and control
of her parent, guardian or custodian.
      UNEMANCIPATED. Means a woman who is unmarried and under 18 years of age
who has not entered the armed services of the United States, has not become
employed and self-subsisting, or has not otherwise become independent from the
care and control of her parent, guardian, or custodian.
   (B)   No person shall perform or induce an abortion without the informed
consent of the pregnant woman.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly perform or induce an abortion upon a
pregnant minor unless one of the following is the case:
      (1)   The attending physician has secured the informed written consent of
the minor and one parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   The minor is emancipated and the attending physician has received
her informed written consent;
      (3)   The minor has been authorized to consent to the abortion by a court
order issued pursuant to R.C. § 2919.121(C) and the attending physician has
received her informed written consent; or
      (4)    The court has given its consent in accordance with R.C. § 2919.121
(C) and the minor is having the abortion willingly.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly perform or induce an abortion upon a woman
who is pregnant, unmarried, under 18 years of age, and unemancipated unless at
least one of the circumstances enumerated in R.C. § 2919.12(B) applies.
   (E)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (D) of
this section that the pregnant woman provided the person who performed or
induced the abortion with false, misleading, or incorrect information about her
age, marital status, or emancipation, about the age of the brother or sister to
whom she requested notice to be given as a specified relative instead of one of
her parents, her guardian, or her custodian, or about the last known address of
either of her parents, her guardian, her custodian, or a specified brother,
sister, stepparent, or grandparent to whom she requested notice be given and
the person who performed or induced the abortion did not otherwise have
reasonable cause to believe the pregnant woman was under 18 years of age,
unmarried, or unemancipated, to believe that the age of the brother or sister
to whom she requested notice be given as a specified relative instead of one of
her parents, her guardian, or her custodian was not 21 years of age, or to
believe that the last known address of either of her parents, her guardian, her
custodian, or a specified brother, sister, stepparent, or grandparent to whom
she requested notice be given was incorrect.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
compliance with the requirements of this section was not possible because an
immediate threat of serious risk to the life or physical health of the pregnant
woman or pregnant minor from the continuation of her pregnancy created an
emergency necessitating the immediate performance or inducement of an abortion.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful abortion. A
violation of division (B), (C) or (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree on the first offense and a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is liable to the pregnant woman or
pregnant minor, and her parents, guardian, or custodian for civil, compensatory
and exemplary damages.
(R.C. §§ 2919.12, 2919.121)
   (H)   (1)   Division (C) of this section applies in lieu of division (D) of
this section whenever its operation is not enjoined. If division (C) of this
section is enjoined, division (D) of this section applies.
      (2)   If a person complies with the requirements of division (D) of this
section under the good faith belief that the application or enforcement of
division (C) of this section is subject to a restraining order or injunction,
good faith compliance shall constitute a complete defense to any civil,
criminal or professional disciplinary action brought under division (C) of this
section or R.C. § 2919.121.
      (3)   If a person complies with the requirements of division (C) of this
section under the good faith belief that it is not subject to a restraining
order or injunction, good faith compliance shall constitute a complete defense
to any civil, criminal or professional disciplinary action for failure to
comply with the requirements of division (D) of this section.
(R.C. § 2919.122)
   (I)   Failure to perform viability testing.
      (1)   Except in a medical emergency that prevents compliance with this
division, no physician shall perform or induce or attempt to perform or induce
an abortion on a pregnant woman after the beginning of the twentieth week of
gestation unless, prior to the performance or inducement of the abortion or the
attempt to perform or induce the abortion, the physician determines, in the
physician’s good faith medical judgment, that the unborn child is not viable,
and the physician makes that determination after performing a medical
examination of the pregnant woman and after performing or causing to be
performed those tests for assessing gestational age, weight, lung maturity, or
other tests that the physician, in that physician’s good faith medical
judgment, believes are necessary to determine whether an unborn child is
viable.
      (2)   Except in a medical emergency that prevents compliance with this
division, no physician shall perform or induce or attempt to perform or induce
an abortion on a pregnant woman after the beginning of the twentieth week of
gestation without first entering the determination made in division (I)(1) of
this section and the associated findings of the medical examination and tests
in the medical record of the pregnant woman.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (I) is guilty of failure to perform
viability testing, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (4)   The State Medical Board shall suspend a physician’s license to
practice medicine in this state for a period of not less than six months if the
physician violates this section.
(R.C. § 2919.18)
   (J)   Abortion trafficking.
      (1)   No person shall experiment upon or sell the product of human
conception which is aborted. Experiment does not include autopsies pursuant to
R.C. §§ 313.13 and 2108.50.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (j) of this section is guilty of abortion
trafficking, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2919.14)
Statutory reference:
   Judicial bypass, see R.C. § 2151.85
   Judicial consent and the right of a minor to consent, see R.C. § 2919.121(C)
   Notice or consent requirements for unmarried minors, see R.C. § 2919.12(B)
§ 135.12 MISREPRESENTATION RELATING TO PROVISION OF CHILD CARE.
   (A)   No child care provider shall knowingly misrepresent any factor or
condition that relates to the provision of child care and that substantially
affects the health or safety of any child or children in that provider's
facility or receiving child care from that provider to any of the following:
      (1)   A parent, guardian, custodian, or other person responsible for the
care of a child in the provider's facility or receiving child care from the
provider;
      (2)   A parent, guardian, custodian, or other person responsible for the
care of a child who is considering the provider as a child care provider for
the child;
      (3)   A public official responsible for issuing the provider a license or
certificate to provide child care;
      (4)   A public official investigating or inquiring about the provision of
child care by the provider;
      (5)   A peace officer.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, "any factor or condition that
relates to the provision of child care" includes, but is not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   The person or persons who will provide child care to the child of
the parent, guardian, custodian, or other person responsible for the care of
the child, or to the children in general;
      (2)   The qualifications to provide child care of the child care
provider, of a person employed by the provider, or of a person who provides
child care as a volunteer;
      (3)   The number of children to whom child care is provided at one time
or the number of children receiving child care in the child care facility at
one time;
      (4)   The conditions or safety features of the child care facility;
      (5)   The area of the child care facility in which child care is
provided.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
misrepresentation by a child care provider, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2919.224)
§ 135.13 NONSUPPORT OF DEPENDENTS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide adequate support to:
      (1)   The person's spouse, as required by law;
      (2)   The person's child who is under age 18, or the persons's child with
a mental or physical disability who is under age 21;
      (3)   The person's aged or infirm parent or adoptive parent, who from
lack of ability and means is unable to provide adequately for the parent's own
support.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide support as
established by a court order to, another person whom, by court order or decree,
the person:
         (a)   Is legally obligated to support; or
         (b)   Was legally obligated to support, and an amount for support:
            1.   Was due and owing prior to the date the person’s duty to pay
current support terminated; and
            2.   Remains unpaid.
      (2)   The period of limitation under R.C. § 2901.13 applicable to
division (B)(1)(b) of this section shall begin to run on the date the person’s
duty to pay current support terminates.
   (C)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to
a child or a ward of the juvenile court becoming a dependent child, as defined
in R.C. § 2151.04, or a neglected child, as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of failure to provide
adequate support under division (A) of this section or a charge of failure to
provide support established by a court order under division (B) of this section
that the accused was unable to provide adequate support or the established
support, but did provide the support that was within his or her ability and
means.
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3) of this
section that the parent abandoned the accused or failed to support the accused
as required by law, while the accused was under age 18, or had a mental or
physical disability and was under age 21.
   (F)   It is not a defense to a charge under division (B) of this section
that the person whom a court has ordered the accused to support is being
adequately supported by someone other than the accused.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of nonsupport of dependents, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (A)(2) or (B) of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or if the
offender has failed to provide support under division (A)(2) or (B) of this
section for a total accumulated period of 26 weeks out of 104 consecutive
weeks, whether or not the 26 weeks were consecutive, then a violation of
division (A)(2) or (B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to a felony violation of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or
(B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender is guilty of nonsupport of dependents by reason of
failing to provide support to his or her child as required by a child support
order issued on or after April 15, 1985, pursuant to R.C. § 2151.23, 2151.231,
2151.232, 2151.33, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.31, 3115.401, or
former R.C. § 3115.31, the court, in addition to any other sentence imposed,
shall assess all court costs arising out of the charge against the person and
require the person to pay any reasonable attorney’s fees of any adverse party
other than the state, as determined by the court, that arose in relation to the
charge.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
contributing to the nonsupport of dependents, a misdemeanor of the first
degree. Each day of a violation of division (C) of this section is a separate
offense.
(R.C. § 2919.21)
§ 135.14 ENDANGERING CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person, who is the parent, guardian, custodian, person having
custody or control, or person in loco parentis of a child under 18 years of age
or a child with a mental or physical disability under 21 years of age, shall
create a substantial risk to the health or safety of the child by violating a
duty of care, protection, or support. It is not a violation of a duty of care,
protection, or support under this division when the parent, guardian,
custodian, or person having custody or control of a child treats the physical
or mental illness or disability of the child by spiritual means through prayer
alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious body.
   (B)   No person shall do any of the following to a child under 18 years of
age or a child with a mental or physical disability under 21 years of age:
      (1)   Abuse the child.
      (2)   Torture or cruelly abuse the child.
      (3)   Administer corporal punishment or other physical disciplinary
measure, or physically restrain the child in a cruel manner or for a prolonged
period, which punishment, discipline or restraint is excessive under the
circumstances and creates a substantial risk of serious physical harm to the
child.
      (4)   Repeatedly administer unwarranted disciplinary measures to a child
when there is a substantial risk that such conduct, if continued, will
seriously impair or retard the child’s mental health or development.
      (5)   Entice, coerce, permit, encourage, compel, hire, employ, use, or
allow the child to act, model, or in any other way participate in, or be
photographed for, the production, presentation, dissemination, or advertisement
of any material or performance that the offender knows or reasonably should
know is obscene, is sexually oriented matter, or is nudity-oriented matter;
      (6)   Allow the child to be on the same parcel of real property and
within 100 feet of, or, in the case of more than one housing unit on the same
parcel of real property, in the same housing unit and within 100 feet of, any
act in violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 when the person knows that the
act is occurring, whether or not any person is prosecuted for or convicted of
the violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 that is the basis of the violation
of this division.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle, as defined by R.C. § 4511.01,
within the municipality and in violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, when one or more children under
18 years of age are in the vehicle. Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
a person may be convicted at the same trial or proceeding of a violation of
this division and a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that constitutes the basis of the charge of the
violation of this division. For purposes of R.C. §§ 4511.191 through 4511.197
and all related provisions of law, a person arrested for a violation of this
division shall be considered to be under arrest for operating a vehicle while
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or
for operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
      (2)   As used in division (C)(1) of this section:
         CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
         VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (D)   (1)   Division (B)(5) of this section does not apply to any material
or performance that is produced, presented, or disseminated for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, religious, governmental, judicial, or other
proper purpose, by or to a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist,
teacher, person pursuing bona fide studies for research, librarian, member of
the clergy, prosecutor, judge, or other person having a proper interest in the
material or performance.
      (2)   Mistake of age is not a defense to a charge under division (B)(5)
of this section.
      (3)   In a prosecution under division (B)(5) of this section, the trier
of fact may infer that an actor, model, or participant in the material or
performance involved is a juvenile if the material or performance, through its
title, text, visual representation, or otherwise, represents or depicts the
actor, model, or participant as a juvenile.
      (4)   As used in this division and division (B)(5) of this section:
         MATERIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         NUDITY-ORIENTED MATTER means any material or performance that shows a
minor in a state of nudity and that, taken as a whole by the average person
applying contemporary community standards, appeals to the prurient interest.
         OBSCENE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         PERFORMANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         SEXUALLY ORIENTED MATTER. Means any material or performance that shows
a minor participating or engaging in sexual activity, masturbation, or
bestiality.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of endangering children.
      (1)   If the offender violates division (A) or (B)(1) of this section,
endangering children is one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(1)(b), (E)(1)(c) or
(E)(1)(d), a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of an offense
under this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, or of any offense involving neglect, abandonment, or contributing to
the delinquency of or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided
in division (E)(1)(c) or (E)(1)(d) of this section, endangering children is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation is a violation of division (A) of this section
and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (d)   If the violation is a violation of division (B)(1) of this
section and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender violates division (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(5) or
(B)(6) of this section, endangering children is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the offender violates division (C) of this section, the offender
shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   Except as provided in (E)(3)(b) or (E)(3)(c), endangering
children in violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
         (b)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
or if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any
offense involving neglect, abandonment, or contributing to the delinquency of
or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided in division (E)(3)
(c) of this section, endangering children in violation of division (C) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
and if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.08, 2919.22(C) or former R.C. § 2903.07 as it
existed prior to March 23, 2000, or R.C. § 2903.04, in a case in which the
offender was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that
section, endangering children in violation of division (C) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (d)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other
sentence, penalty or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to
divisions (E)(3)(a), (E)(3)(b) or (E)(3)(c) of this section or pursuant to any
other provision of law, and in addition to any suspension of the offender’s
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege under R.C. Chapter 4506, 4509, 4510, or 4511, or any other
provision of law, the court also may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(7).
         (e)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other
sentence, penalty or sanction imposed upon the offender pursuant to division
(E)(3)(a), (E)(3)(b), (E)(3)(c) or (E)(3)(d) of this section or pursuant to any
other provision of law for the violation of division (C) of this section, if as
a part of the same trial or proceeding the offender also is convicted of or
pleads guilty to a separate charge charging the violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A),
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the
charge of the violation of division (C) of this section, the offender also
shall be sentenced in accordance with R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, for that violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (F)   (1)   If a person violates division (C) of this section and if, at the
time of the violation, there were two or more children under 18 years of age in
the motor vehicle involved in the violation, the offender may be convicted of a
violation of division (C) of this section for each of the children, but the
court may sentence the offender for only one of the violations.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation
of division (C) of this section but the person is not also convicted of and
does not also plead guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A),
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the
charge of the violation of division (C) of this section, both the following
apply:
            1.   For purposes of the provisions of R.C. § 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that set forth the penalties and
sanctions for a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the conviction of or plea of guilty to the violation of
division (C) of this section shall not constitute a violation of R.C. § 4511.19
(A), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            2.   For purposes of the provisions of law that refers to a
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and that is not described in
division (F)(2)(a)1. of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty to
the violation of division (C) of this section shall constitute a conviction or
plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (C) of this section and the person also is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the charge of the
violation of division (C) of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty
to the violation of division (C) of this section shall not constitute, for the
purposes of any provision of law that refers to a conviction of or a plea of
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, a conviction of or a plea of guilty to a violation of R.C.
§ 4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 2919.22(A) - (E), (H))
Statutory reference:
   Community service, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(F)
   License suspension, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(G)
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
§ 135.15 INTERFERENCE WITH CUSTODY; INTERFERENCE WITH SUPPORT ORDERS.
   (A)   Interference with custody.
      (1)   No person, knowing that he or she is without privilege to do so or
being reckless in that regard, shall entice, take, keep, or harbor a person
identified in division (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section from
the parent, guardian, or custodian of the person identified in division (A)(1)
(a), (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section:
         (a)   A child under the age of 18, or a child with a mental or
physical disability under the age of 21;
         (b)   A person committed by law to an institution for delinquent,
unruly, neglected, abused, or dependent children;
         (c)   A person committed by law to an institution for persons with
mental illnesses or an institution for persons with intellectual disabilities.
      (2)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, or encourage a child or a
ward of the juvenile court who has been committed to the custody of any person,
department, or public or private institution to leave the custody of that
person, department, or institution without legal consent.
      (3)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of enticing or taking
under division (A)(1)(a) of this section that the actor reasonably believed
that his or her conduct was necessary to preserve the child’s health or safety.
It is an affirmative defense to a charge of keeping or harboring under division
(A)(1) of this section that the actor in good faith gave notice to law
enforcement or judicial authorities within a reasonable time after the child or
committed person came under his or her shelter, protection, or influence.
      (4)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with
custody.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this subdivision, a violation of
division (A)(1)(a) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the child who
is the subject of a violation of division (A)(1)(a) is removed from the state
or if the offender previously has been convicted of an offense under this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. If the child who is the subject of a violation of
division (A)(1)(a) suffers physical harm as a result of the violation, a
violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
         (b)   A violation of division (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (c)   A violation of division (A)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. Each day of a violation of division (A)(2) is a separate
offense.
(R.C. § 2919.23)
   (B)   Interference with support orders.
      (1)   No person, by using physical harassment or threats of violence
against another person, shall interfere with the other person’s initiation or
continuance of, or attempt to prevent the other person from initiating or
continuing, an action to issue or modify a support order under R.C. Chapter
3115, or under R.C. § 2151.23, 2151.231, 2151.232, 2151.33, 2151.36, 2151.361,
2151.49, 3105.18, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3109.19, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.07, or
3113.31.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of interfering with an
action to issue or modify a support order, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
violation of this division (B) or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, or R.C. § 3111.19, interfering with an action to issue or
modify a support order is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
(R.C. § 2919.231)
§ 135.16 DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm to a
family or household member.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to a family or
household member.
   (C)   No person, by threat of force, shall knowingly cause a family or
household member to believe that the offender will cause imminent physical harm
to the family or household member.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of domestic violence,
and the court shall sentence the offender as provided in divisions (D)(2) to
(D)(5) of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3), (D)(4) or (D)(5)
of this section, a violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree and a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(4) of this section, if
the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of domestic
violence, a violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or the United States that is substantially equivalent
to domestic violence, a violation of R.C. § 2903.14, 2909.06, 2909.07, 2911.12,
2911.211, or 2919.22 if the victim of the violation was a family or household
member at the time of the violation, a violation of an existing or former
municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or the United States that
is substantially equivalent to any of those sections if the victim of the
violation was a family or household member at the time of the commission of the
violation, or any offense of violence if the victim of the offense was a family
or household member at the time of the commission of the offense, a violation
of division (A) or (B) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law, and a violation of division (C) is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   If the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted
of two or more offenses of domestic violence or two or more violations or
offenses of the type described in division (D)(3) of this section involving a
person who was a family or household member at the time of the violations or
offenses, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of division (C) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) or (D)(4) of this
section, if the offender knew that the victim of the violation was pregnant at
the time of the violation, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of
division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no court or unit
of state or local government shall charge any fee, cost, deposit, or money in
connection with the filing of charges against a person alleging that the person
violated this section or a municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to this
section or in connection with the prosecution of any charges so filed.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
offender:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse as defined below, or a
former spouse of the offender;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the offender, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the offender;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the offender, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
offender.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the offender is the
other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived with
the offender in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting
with the offender, or who otherwise has cohabited with the offender within five
years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in question.
(R.C. § 2919.25)
Cross-reference:
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.23
Statutory reference:
   Temporary protection orders, see R.C. § 2919.26
   Violation of protection order or consent agreement, factors to consider,
bail, see R.C. § 2919.251
§ 135.17 HAZING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      HAZING. Means doing any act or coercing another, including the victim, to
do any act of initiation into any student or other organization or any act to
continue or reinstate membership in or affiliation with any student or other
organization that causes or creates a substantial risk of causing mental or
physical harm to any person, including coercing another to consume alcohol or a
drug of abuse, as defined in R.C. § 3719.011.
      ORGANIZATION. Includes a national or international organization with
which a fraternity or sorority is affiliated.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other educational institution, public or private,
shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person associated with the
organization.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another
when the hazing includes coerced consumption of alcohol or drugs of abuse
resulting in serious physical harm to the other person.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other educational institution, public or private,
shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person associated with the
organization when the hazing includes coerced consumption of alcohol or drugs
of abuse resulting in serious physical harm to that person.
   (D)   Whoever violates divisions (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of
hazing. A violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the second degree. A violation of division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.31)
   (E)   Reckless failure to immediately report knowledge of hazing.
      (1)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other public or private educational institution,
who is acting in an official and professional capacity shall recklessly fail to
immediately report the knowledge of hazing to a law enforcement agency in the
county in which the victim of hazing resides or in which the hazing is
occurring or has occurred.
      (2)   A violation of division (E)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree, except that the violation is a misdemeanor of the first
degree if the hazing causes serious physical harm.
(R.C. § 2903.311(B), (C))
(R.C. § 2903.31)
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability for hazing, see R.C. § 2307.44
§ 135.18 CONTRIBUTING TO UNRULINESS OR DELINQUENCY OF A CHILD.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      DELINQUENT CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
      UNRULY CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.022.
   (B)   No person, including a parent, guardian, or other custodian of a
child, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to a child or a
ward of the juvenile court becoming an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (2)   Act in a way tending to cause a child or a ward of the juvenile
court to become an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (3)   Act in a way that contributes to an adjudication of the child as a
delinquent child based on the child’s violation of a court order adjudicating
the child an unruly child for being an habitual truant;
      (4)   If the person is the parent, guardian, or custodian of a child who
has the duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950 to register, register a new
residence address, and periodically verify a residence address, and, if
applicable, to send a notice of intent to reside, and if the child is not
emancipated, as defined in R.C. § 2919.121, fail to ensure that the child
complies with those duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of contributing to the
unruliness or delinquency of a child, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each
day of violation of this section is a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2919.24)
Statutory reference:
   Failure to send child to school, see R.C. § 3321.38
§ 135.19 FAILURE TO PROVIDE FOR FUNCTIONALLY IMPAIRED PERSON.
   (A)   No caretaker shall knowingly fail to provide a person with a
functional impairment under the caretaker's care with any treatment, care,
goods, or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of the
person with a functional impairment when this failure results in physical harm
or serious physical harm to the person with a functional impairment.
   (B)   No caretaker shall recklessly fail to provide a person with a
functional impairment under the caretaker's care with any treatment, care,
goods, or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of the
person with a functional impairment when this failure results in serious
physical harm to the person with a functional impairment.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
knowingly failing to provide for a person with a functional impairment, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the person with a functional impairment
under the offender's care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the
violation of this section, a violation of division (A) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
recklessly failing to provide for a person with a functional impairment, a
misdemeanor of the second degree. If the person with a functional impairment
under the offender's care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the
violation of this section, a violation of division (B) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.16)
   (D)   As used in this section:
      CARETAKER. A person who assumes the duty to provide for the care and
protection of a person with a functional impairment on a voluntary basis, by
contract, through receipt of payment for care and protection, as a result of a
family relationship, or by order of a court of competent jurisdiction. The term
does not include a person who owns, operates, or administers, or who is an
agent or employee of, a care facility, as defined in R.C. § 2903.33.
      PERSON WITH A FUNCTIONAL IMPAIRMENT. Any person who has a physical or
mental impairment that prevents the person from providing for the person's own
care or protection or whose infirmities caused by aging prevent the person from
providing for the person's own care or protection.
(R.C. § 2903.10)
§ 135.20 PATIENT ABUSE OR NEGLECT; PATIENT ENDANGERMENT; EXCEPTIONS; FALSE
STATEMENTS; RETALIATION.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      ABUSE. Means knowingly causing physical harm or recklessly causing
serious physical harm to a person by physical contact with the person or by the
inappropriate use of a physical or chemical restraint, medication or isolation
on the person.
      CARE FACILITY. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any “home” as defined in R.C. § 3721.10.
         (b)   Any “residential facility” as defined in R.C. § 5119.34 or
5123.19.
         (c)   Any institution or facility operated or provided by the
Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services or by the Department of
Developmental Disabilities pursuant to R.C. §§ 5119.14 and 5123.03.
         (d)   Any unit of any hospital, as defined in R.C. § 3701.01, that
provided the same services as a nursing home, as defined in R.C. § 3721.01.
         (e)   Any institution, residence or facility that provides, for a
period of more than 24 hours, whether for consideration or not, accommodations
to one individual or two unrelated individuals who are dependent upon the
services of others.
      GROSS NEGLECT. Means knowingly failing to provide a person with any
treatment, care, goods or service that is necessary to maintain the health or
safety of the person when the failure results in serious physical harm to the
person.
      INAPPROPRIATE USE OF A PHYSICAL OR CHEMICAL RESTRAINT, MEDICATION OR
ISOLATION. Means the use of physical or chemical restraint, medication or
isolation as punishment, for staff convenience, excessively, as a substitute
for treatment, or in quantities that preclude habilitation and treatment.
      NEGLECT. Means recklessly failing to provide a person with any treatment,
care, goods or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of
the person when the failure results in serious physical harm to the person.
(R.C. § 2903.33)
   (B)   Patient abuse or neglect; spiritual treatment; defense.
      (1)   No person who owns, operates, or administers, or who is an agent or
employee of a care facility shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Commit abuse against a resident or patient of the facility.
         (b)   Commit gross neglect against a resident or patient of the
facility.
         (c)   Commit neglect against a resident or patient of the facility.
      (2)   (a)   A person who relies upon treatment by spiritual means through
prayer alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious
denomination, shall not be considered neglectful under division (B)(1)(c) of
this section for that reason alone.
         (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of gross neglect or
neglect under this section that the actor’s conduct was committed in good faith
solely because the actor was ordered to commit the conduct by a person with
supervisory authority over the actor.
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(a) is guilty of patient
abuse, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(b) is guilty of gross patient
neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of, or pleaded guilty to, any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, gross patient
neglect is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(c) is guilty of patient
neglect, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of, or pleaded guilty to, any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, gross patient
neglect is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.34)
   (C)   Patient endangerment; spiritual treatment; defense.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES CARETAKER. Means any developmental
disabilities employee or any person who assumes the duty to provide for the
care and protection of a person with a developmental disability on a voluntary
basis, by contract, through receipt of payment for care and protection, as a
result of a family relationship, or by order of a court of competent
jurisdiction. The phrase includes a person who is an employee of a care
facility and a person who is an employee of an entity under contract with a
provider. The phrase does not include a person who owns, operates, or
administers a care facility or who is an agent of a care facility unless that
person also personally provides care to a person with a developmental
disability.
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5123.50.
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5123.01.
      (2)   No developmental disabilities caretaker shall create a substantial
risk to the health or safety of a person with a developmental disability. A
developmental disabilities caretaker does not create a substantial risk to the
health or safety of a person with a developmental disability under this
division when the developmental disabilities caretaker treats a physical or
mental illness or disability of the person with a developmental disability by
spiritual means through prayer alone, in accordance with the tenets of a
recognized religious body.
      (3)   No person who owns, operates, or administers a care facility or who
is an agent of a care facility shall condone, or knowingly permit, any conduct
by a developmental disabilities caretaker who is employed by or under the
control of the owner, operator, administrator, or agent that is in violation of
division (C)(2) of this section and that involves a person with a developmental
disability who is under the care of the owner, operator, administrator, or
agent. A person who relies upon treatment by spiritual means through prayer
alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious denomination,
shall not be considered endangered under this division for that reason alone.
      (4)   (a)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(2) or (C)(3) of this section that the actor’s conduct was
committed in good faith solely because the actor was ordered to commit the
conduct by a person to whom one of the following applies:
            1.   The person has supervisory authority over the actor.
            2.   The person has authority over the actor’s conduct pursuant to
a contract for the provision of services.
         (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(3) of this section that the person who owns, operates, or
administers a care facility or who is an agent of a care facility and who is
charged with the violation is following the individual service plan for the
involved person with a developmental disability or that the admission,
discharge, and transfer rule set forth in the Ohio Administrative Code is being
followed.
         (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(3) of this section that the actor did not have readily available a
means to prevent either the harm to the person with a developmental disability
or the death of such a person and the actor took reasonable steps to summon
aid.
      (5)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(5)(b) or (C)(5)(c) of this
section, whoever violates division (C)(2) or (C)(3) of this section is guilty
of patient endangerment, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of, or pleaded
guilty to, a violation of this section, patient endangerment is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the person
with a developmental disability, patient endangerment is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.341)
   (D)   False statements.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly
swear or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, alleging a
violation of division (B) of this section when the statement is made with
purpose to incriminate another.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of filing a false
patient abuse or neglect complaint, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2903.35)
   (E)   Retaliation against person reporting patient abuse or neglect. No care
facility shall discharge or in any manner discriminate or retaliate against any
person solely because such person, in good faith, filed a complaint, affidavit,
or other document alleging a violation of division (B) of this section or a
violation of R.C. § 2903.34.
(R.C. § 2903.36)
Statutory reference:
   License revocation for felony violations, see R.C. § 2903.37
§ 135.21 INTERFERENCE WITH RIGHT OF PERSON TO ENGAGE IN HOUSING TRANSACTIONS
BECAUSE OF RACE, RELIGION, OR THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person, whether or not acting under color of law, shall by force or
threat of force willfully injure, intimidate, or interfere with, or attempt to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with any of the following:
      (1)   Any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial status,
as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin, military status as defined in
that section, disability as defined in that section, or ancestry and because
that person is or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying,
contracting, or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or
occupation of any housing accommodations, or applying for or participating in
any service, organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting housing accommodations.
      (2)   Any person because that person is or has been doing, or in order to
intimidate that person or any other person or any class of persons from doing
either of the following:
         (a)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin,
military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in that
section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations, or
facilities described in division (A)(1) of this section;
         (b)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
      (3)   Any person because that person is or has been, or in order to
discourage that person or any other person from, lawfully aiding or encouraging
other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin,
military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in that
section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations, or
facilities described in division (A)(1) of this section, or participating
lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity
to so participate.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2927.03)
§ 135.22 ETHNIC INTIMIDATION.
   (A)   No person shall violate R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.22, 2909.06, or 2909.07,
or R.C. § 2917.21(A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5), by reason of the race, color,
religion, or national origin of another person or group of persons.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of ethnic intimidation. Ethnic
intimidation is an offense of the next higher degree than the offense the
commission of which is a necessary element of ethnic intimidation. In the case
of an offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree, ethnic intimidation is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.12)
§ 135.23 VIOLATING A PROTECTION ORDER, CONSENT AGREEMENT, ANTI- STALKING
PROTECTION ORDER OR ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER STATE.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly violate the terms of any of the following:
      (1)   A protection order issued or consent agreement approved pursuant to
R.C. § 2919.26 or R.C. § 3113.31;
      (2)   A protection order issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213 or
2903.214;
      (3)   A protection order issued by a court of another state.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of violating a
protection order.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) or (B)(4) of this
section, violating a protection order is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Violating a protection order is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the offender previously has been convicted of, pleaded
guilty to, or been adjudicated a delinquent child for any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of a protection order issued or consent agreement
approved pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213, 2903.214, 2919.26, or 3113.31,
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance;
         (b)   Two or more violations of R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, or
2911.211, or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or
any combination of those offenses, that involved the same person who is the
subject of the protection order or consent agreement;
         (c)   One or more violations of this section, or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance.
      (4)   If the offender violates a protection order or consent agreement
while committing a felony offense, violating a protection order is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the protection order violated by the offender was an order
issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34 or 2903.214 that required electronic
monitoring of the offender pursuant to that section, the court may require in
addition to any other sentence imposed upon the offender that the offender be
electronically monitored for a period not exceeding five years by a law
enforcement agency designated by the court. If the court requires under this
division that the offender be electronically monitored, unless the court
determines that the offender is indigent, the court shall order that the
offender pay the costs of the installation of the electronic monitoring device
and the cost of monitoring the electronic monitoring device.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3) of this
section that the protection order issued by a court of another state does not
comply with the requirements specified in 18 U.S.C. § 2265(b) for a protection
order that must be accorded full faith and credit by a court of this state or
that it is not entitled to full faith and credit under 18 U.S.C. § 2265(c).
   (D)   In a prosecution for a violation of this section, it is not necessary
for the prosecution to prove that the protection order or consent agreement was
served on the defendant if the prosecution proves that the defendant was shown
the protection order or consent agreement or a copy of either or a judge,
magistrate, or law enforcement officer informed the defendant that a protection
order or consent agreement had been issued, and proves that the defendant
recklessly violated the terms of the order or agreement.
   (E)   As used in this section, PROTECTION ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER
STATE means an injunction or another order issued by a criminal court of
another state for the purpose of preventing violent or threatening acts or
harassment against, contact or communication with, or physical proximity to
another person including a temporary order, and means an injunction or order of
that nature issued by a civil court of another state, including a temporary
order and a final order issued in an independent action or as a pendente lite
order in a proceeding for other relief, if the court issued it in response to a
complaint, petition or motion filed by or on behalf of a person seeking
protection. The term does not include an order for support or for custody of a
child issued pursuant to the divorce and child custody laws of another state,
except to the extent that the order for support or for custody of a child is
entitled to full faith and credit under the laws of the United States.
(R.C. § 2919.27)
§ 135.24 ADULTERATION OF FOOD.
   (A)   No person shall do either of the following, knowing or having
reasonable cause to believe that any person may suffer physical harm or be
seriously inconvenienced or annoyed thereby:
      (1)   Place a pin, razor blade, glass, laxative, drug of abuse, or other
harmful or hazardous object or substance in any food or confection.
      (2)   Furnish to any person any food or confection which has been
adulterated in violation of division (A)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 3716.11)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 3716.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Adulteration of food generally, see R.C. § 3715.59
§ 135.25 ILLEGAL DISTRIBUTION OF CIGARETTES, OTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS, OR
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS; TRANSACTION SCANS.
   (A)   Illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         AGE VERIFICATION. A service provided by an independent third party
(other than a manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes) that compares information available from a
commercially available database, or aggregate of databases, that regularly are
used by government and businesses for the purpose of age and identity
verification to personal information provided during an internet sale or other
remote method of sale to establish that the purchaser is 21 years of age or
older.
         ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT.
            1.   Subject to division 2. of this definition, an electronic
smoking device, vapor product, or any other product or device that consists of
or contains nicotine that can be ingested into the body by any means,
including, but not limited to, chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, or
inhaling.
            2.   The phrase does not include any of the following:
               a.   Any cigarette or other tobacco product;
               b.   Any product that is a “drug” as that term is defined in 21
U.S.C. § 321(g)(1);
               c.   Any product that is a “device” as that term is defined in
21 U.S.C. § 321(h);
               d.   Any product that is a “combination product” as described in
21 U.S.C. § 353(g).
         ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE. Means any device that can be used to
deliver aerosolized or vaporized nicotine or any other substance to the person
inhaling from the device including an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic hookah, vaping pen, or electronic pipe. The phrase includes any
component, part, or accessory of such a device, whether or not sold separately,
and includes any substance intended to be aerosolized or vaporized during the
use of the device. The phrase does not include any product that is a drug,
device, or combination product, as those terms are defined or described in 21
U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g).
         PROOF OF AGE. Means a driver's license, a commercial driver's license,
a military identification card, a passport, or an identification card issued
under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows that a person is 21 years of age or
older.
         TOBACCO PRODUCT. Means any product that is made or derived from
tobacco or that contains any form of nicotine, if it is intended for human
consumption or is likely to be consumed, whether smoked, heated, chewed,
absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, or ingested by any other means, including, but
not limited to, a cigarette, an electronic smoking device, a cigar, pipe
tobacco, chewing tobacco, snuff, or snus. The phrase also means any component
or accessory used in the consumption of a tobacco product, such as filters,
rolling papers, pipes, blunt or hemp wraps, and liquids used in electronic
smoking devices, whether or not they contain nicotine. The phrase does not
include any product that is a drug, device, or combination product, as those
terms are defined or described in 21 U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g).
         VAPOR PRODUCT. Means a product, other than a cigarette or other
tobacco product as defined in R.C. Chapter 5743, that contains or is made or
derived from nicotine and that is intended and marketed for human consumption,
including by smoking, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing. The phrase includes any
component, part, or additive that is intended for use in an electronic smoking
device, a mechanical heating element, battery, or electronic circuit and is
used to deliver the product. The phrase does not include any product that is a
drug, device, or combination product, as those terms are defined or described
in 21 U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g). The phrase includes any product containing
nicotine, regardless of concentration.
         VENDING MACHINE. Has the same meaning as “coin machine” in R.C. §
2913.01.
      (2)   No manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes, no agent, employee, or representative of a
manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes, and no other person shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes:
            1.   To any person under 21 years of age; or
            2.   Without first verifying proof of age.
         (b)   Give away, sell, or distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes in
any place that does not have posted in a conspicuous place a legibly printed
sign in letters at least one-half inch high stating that giving, selling, or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to a person under 21 years of age
is prohibited by law;
         (c)   Knowingly furnish any false information regarding the name, age,
or other identification of any person under 21 years of age with purpose to
obtain cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or
papers used to roll cigarettes for that person;
         (d)   Manufacture, sell, or distribute in this state any pack or other
container of cigarettes containing fewer than 20 cigarettes or any package of
roll-your-own tobacco containing less than six-tenths of one ounce of tobacco;
         (e)   Sell cigarettes or alternative nicotine products in a smaller
quantity than that placed in the pack or other container by the manufacturer;
         (f)   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute alternative nicotine
products, papers used to roll cigarettes, or tobacco products other than
cigarettes over the internet or through another remote method without age
verification;
         (g)   Allow an employee under 18 years of age to sell any tobacco
product;
         (h)   Give away or otherwise distribute free samples of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or coupons redeemable
for cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alterative tobacco products.
      (3)   No person shall sell or offer to sell cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products by or from a vending machine, except
in the following locations:
         (a)   An area within a factory, business, office, or other place not
open to the general public;
         (b)   An area to which persons under 21 years of age are not generally
permitted access;
         (c)   Any other place not identified in division (A)(3)(a) or (A)(3)
(b) of this section, upon all of the following conditions:
            1.   The vending machine is located within the immediate vicinity,
plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place, or an
employee of that person, so that all cigarettes, other tobacco product, and
alternative nicotine product purchases from the vending machine will be readily
observed by the person who owns or operates the place or an employee of that
person. For the purpose of this section, a vending machine located in any
unmonitored area, including an unmonitored coatroom, restroom, hallway, or
outer waiting area, shall not be considered located within the immediate
vicinity, plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place,
or an employee of that person.
            2.   The vending machine is inaccessible to the public when the
place is closed.
            3.   A clearly visible notice is posted in the area where the
vending machine is located that states the following in letters that are
legibly printed and at least one-half inch high: “It is illegal for any person
under the age of 21 to purchase tobacco or alternative nicotine products.”
      (4)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under division
(A)(2)(a) of this section:
         (a)   The person under 21 years of age was accompanied by a parent,
spouse who is 21 years of age or older, or legal guardian of the person under
21 years of age.
         (b)   The person who gave, sold, or distributed cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to a person under 21 years of age under division (A)(2)(a) of this
section is a parent, spouse who is 21 years of age or older, or legal guardian
of the person under 21 years of age.
      (5)   (a)   It is not a violation of division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of
this section for a person to give or otherwise distribute to a person under 21
years of age cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
or papers used to roll cigarettes while the person under 21 years of age is
participating in a research protocol if all of the following apply:
            1.   The parent, guardian, or legal custodian of the person under
21 years of age has consented in writing to the person under 21 years of age
participating in the research protocol.
            2.   An institutional human subjects protection review board, or an
equivalent entity, has approved the research protocol.
            3.   The person under 21 years of age is participating in the
research protocol at the facility or location specified in the research
protocol.
         (b)   It is not a violation of division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this
section for an employer to permit an employee 18, 19, or 20 years of age to
sell a tobacco product.
      (6)   (a)   No delivery service shall accept from, transport or deliver
to, or allow pick-up by, a person under 21 years of age with respect to any of
the following:
            1.   Alternative nicotine products;
            2.   Papers used to roll cigarettes;
            3.   Tobacco products other than cigarettes.
         (b)   A delivery service shall require proof of age as a condition of
accepting, transporting, delivering, or allowing pickup of the items described
in divisions (A)(6)(a)1. to 3. of this section.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(a), (A)(2)(b), (A)(2)(d), (A)(2)
(e), (A)(2)(f), (A)(2)(g), (A)(2)(h), (A)(3) or (A)(6) of this section is
guilty of illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to illegal distribution of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(c) of this section is guilty of
permitting a person under 21 years of age to use cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, permitting a person under 21 years of age to use cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of division (A)(2)(c) of this section or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, permitting a person under 21 years of age to use
cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (9)   Any cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes that are given, sold, or otherwise
distributed to a person under 21 years of age in violation of this section and
that are used, possessed, purchased, or received by a person under 21 years of
age in violation of R.C. § 2151.87 are subject to seizure and forfeiture as
contraband under R.C. Chapter 2981.
(R.C. § 2927.02)
   (B)   Transaction scan.
      (1)   As used in this division and division (C) of this section:
         CARD HOLDER. Means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products from a seller, agent, or employee.
         IDENTIFICATION CARD. Means an identification card issued under R.C. §§
4507.50 through 4507.52.
         SELLER. Means a seller of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products and includes any person whose gift of or other
distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products is subject to the prohibitions of division (A) of this section.
         TRANSACTION SCAN. Means the process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks, by means of a transaction scan device, the
validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card
that is presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
         TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Means any commercial device or combination of
devices used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information  encoded on the magnetic strip
or bar code of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card.
      (2)   (a)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away, or otherwise distributing
to the card holder cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products.
         (b)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (B)(2)(a) of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away, or otherwise distribute any cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products to the card holder.
         (c)   Division (B)(2)(a) of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card, if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device, as a condition for selling, giving away, or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products to the person presenting the document.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (B) and division (C) of this section.
      (4)   (a)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except for the following:
            1.   The name and date of birth of the person listed on the
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the
card holder;
            2.   The expiration date and identification number of the driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder.
         (b)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (B)(4)(a) of this section, except for
purposes of division (C) of this section.
         (c)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (C)(2)(a) of this section.
         (d)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (C) of this section
or another section of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (B) or division (C) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable local, state or federal laws or rules
governing the sale, giving away, or other distribution of cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(2)(b) or (B)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal tobacco product or alternative nicotine
product transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil
penalty of up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay
each collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the
County Treasury.
(R.C. § 2927.021)
   (C)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (A) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of cigarettes, other tobacco products,
or alternative nicotine products is an element of the alleged violation, if the
seller, agent, or employee raises and proves as an affirmative defense that all
of the following occurred:
         (a)   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products presented a driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or an identification card.
         (b)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that
the license or card was valid.
         (c)   The cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products were sold, given away, or otherwise distributed to the card holder in
reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and the completed
transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (C)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (A) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (A) of this
section. For purposes of division (C)(1)(c) of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         (a)   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away, or otherwise distributes cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products is 21 years of age or older;
         (b)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (C)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
deputy registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50
through 4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of
that issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2927.022)
   (D)   Shipment of tobacco products.
      (1)   As used in this division (D):
         AUTHORIZED RECIPIENT OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Means:
            1.   In the case of cigarettes, a person who is:
               a.   Licensed as a cigarette wholesale dealer under R.C. §
5743.15;
               b.   Licensed as a retail dealer as long as the person purchases
cigarettes with the appropriate tax stamp affixed;
               c.   An export warehouse proprietor as defined in Internal
Revenue Code § 5702;
               d.   An operator of a customs bonded warehouse under 19 U.S.C. §
1311 or 19 U.S.C. § 1555;
               e.   An officer, employee, or agent of the federal government or
of this state acting in the person's official capacity;
               f.   A department, agency, instrumentality, or political
subdivision of the federal government or of this state;
               g.   A person having a consent for consumer shipment issued by
the Ohio Tax Commissioner under R.C. § 5743.71.
            2.   In the case of electronic smoking devices or vapor products, a
person who is:
               a.   Licensed as a distributor of tobacco or vapor products
under R.C. § 5743.61;
               b.   A retail dealer of vapor products, as defined in R.C. §
5741.01(C)(3), that is not licensed as a vapor distributor, as long as the tax
levied by R.C. § 5743.51, 5743.62, or 5743.63, as applicable, has been paid;
               c.   An operator of a customs bonded warehouse under 19 U.S.C. §
1311 or 19 U.S.C. § 1555;
               d.   An officer, employee, or agent of the federal government or
of this state acting in the person's official capacity;
               e.   A department, agency, instrumentality, or political
subdivision of the federal government or of this state.
         MOTOR CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01.
      (2)   The purpose of this section is to prevent the sale of cigarettes,
electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to minors and to ensure
compliance with the Master Settlement Agreement, as defined in R.C. § 1346.01.
      (3)   (a)   No person shall cause to be shipped any cigarettes,
electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to any person in this
municipality other than an authorized recipient of tobacco products.
         (b)   No motor carrier, or other person shall knowingly transport
cigarettes, electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to any person in
this municipality that the carrier or other person reasonably believes is not
an authorized recipient of tobacco products. If cigarettes, electronic smoking
devices, and vapor products are transported to a home or residence, it shall be
presumed that the motor carrier, or other person knew that the person to whom
the cigarettes, electronic smoking devices, and vapor products were delivered
was not an authorized recipient of tobacco products.
      (4)   No person engaged in the business of selling cigarettes, electronic
smoking devices, and vapor products who ships or causes to be shipped
cigarettes, electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to any person in
this municipality in any container or wrapping other than the original
container or wrapping shall fail to plainly and visibly mark the exterior of
the container or wrapping in which the cigarettes, electronic smoking devices,
and vapor products are shipped with the words "cigarettes", "electronic smoking
devices", or "vapor products", as applicable.
      (5)   A court shall impose a fine of up to $1,000 for each violation of
division (D)(3)(a), (D)(3)(b) or (D)(4) of this section.
(R.C. § 2927.023)
   (E)   Furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products.
      (1)   No person who is 18 years of age or older but younger than 21 years
of age shall knowingly furnish false information concerning that person’s name,
age, or other identification for the purpose of obtaining tobacco products.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E)(1) of this section is guilty of
furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, furnishing false information to obtain tobacco
products is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)(1) of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
(R.C. § 2927.024)
§ 135.26 NONSMOKING AREAS IN PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   As used in this section, PLACE OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY means:
      (1)   Enclosed theaters, except the lobby; opera houses; auditoriums;
classrooms; elevators; rooms in which persons are confined as a matter of
health care, including but not limited to a hospital room and a room in a
residential care facility serving as the residence of a person living in such
residential care facility.
      (2)   All buildings and other enclosed structures owned by the state, its
agencies, or political subdivisions, including but not limited to hospitals and
state institutions for persons with mental illnesses and persons with
intellectual disabilities; university and college buildings, except rooms
within those buildings used primarily as the residences of students or other
persons affiliated with the university or college; office buildings; libraries;
museums; and vehicles used in public transportation. That portion of a building
or other enclosed structure that is owned by the state, a state agency, or a
political subdivision, and that is used primarily as a food service
establishment, is not a place of public assembly.
      (3)   Each portion of a building or enclosed structure that is not
included in division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is a place of public
assembly if it has a seating capacity of 50 or more persons and is available to
the public. Restaurants, food service establishments, dining rooms, cafes,
cafeterias, or other rooms used primarily for the service of food, as well as
bowling alleys and places licensed by the Ohio Division of Liquor Control to
sell intoxicating beverages for consumption on the premises, are not places of
public assembly.
   (B)   For the purpose of separating persons who smoke from persons who do
not smoke for the comfort and health of persons not smoking, in every place of
public assembly there shall be an area where smoking is not permitted, which
shall be designated a no smoking area, provided that not more than one-half of
the rooms in any health care facility in which persons are confined as a matter
of health care may be designated as smoking areas in their entirety. The
designation shall be made before the place of public assembly is made available
to the public. In places included in division (A)(1) of this section, the local
fire authority having jurisdiction shall designate the no smoking area. In
places included in division (A)(2) of this section that are owned by the state
or its agencies, the Ohio Director of Administrative Services shall designate
the area, and if the place is owned by a political subdivision, its Legislative
Authority shall designate an officer who shall designate the area. In places
included in division (A)(3) of this section, the person having control of the
operations of the place of public assembly shall designate the no smoking area.
In places included in division (A)(2) of this section which are also included
in division (A)(1) of this section, the officer who has authority to designate
the area in places in division (A)(2) of this section shall designate the no
smoking area. A no smoking area may include the entire place of public
assembly. Designations shall be made by the placement of signs that are clearly
visible and that state “no smoking.” No person shall remove signs from areas
designated as no smoking areas.
   (C)   This section does not affect or modify the prohibition contained in
R.C. § 3313.751(B).
   (D)   No person shall smoke in any area designated as a no smoking area in
accordance with division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3791.031)
§ 135.27 SPREADING CONTAGION.
   (A)   No person, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the
person has a dangerous, contagious disease, shall knowingly fail to take
reasonable measures to prevent exposing self to other persons, except when
seeking medical aid.
   (B)   No person, having charge or care of a person whom the person having
charge or care knows or has reasonable cause to believe has a dangerous,
contagious disease, shall recklessly fail to take reasonable measures to
protect others from exposure to the contagion, and to inform health authorities
of the existence of the contagion.
   (C)   No person, having charge of a public conveyance or place of public
accommodation, amusement, resort, or trade, and knowing or having reasonable
cause to believe that persons using such conveyance or place have been or are
being exposed to a dangerous, contagious disease, shall negligently fail to
take reasonable measures to protect the public from exposure to the contagion,
and to inform health authorities of the existence of the contagion.
(R.C. § 3701.81)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second
degree.
(R.C. § 3701.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Contagion and quarantine, see R.C. §§ 3707.04 et seq.
   Power to prevent contagious diseases, see R.C. § 715.37
§ 135.28 ABUSE OF A CORPSE.
   (A)   No person, except as authorized by law, shall treat a human corpse in
a way that he or she knows would outrage reasonable family sensibilities.
   (B)   No person, except as authorized by law, shall treat a human corpse in
a way that would outrage reasonable community sensibilities.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of abuse of a
corpse, a misdemeanor of the second degree. Whoever violates division (B) of
this section is guilty of gross abuse of a corpse, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.01)
§ 135.29 UNLAWFUL COLLECTION OF BODILY SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly collect any blood, urine, tissue, or other
bodily substance of another person without privilege or consent to do so.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a law
enforcement officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice
of a law enforcement officer, for purposes of a chemical test or tests of the
substance under R.C. § 1547.111(A)(1) or R.C. § 4511.191(A)(2) to determine the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the bodily substance;
         (b)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a peace
officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice of a peace
officer, for purposes of a test or tests of the substance as provided in R.C. §
4506.17(A) to determine the person’s alcohol concentration or the presence of
any controlled substance or metabolite of a controlled substance.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section shall not be construed as implying
that the persons identified in divisions (B)(1)(a) and (b) of this section do
not have privilege to collect the bodily substance of another person as
described in those divisions or as limiting the definition of “privilege” set
forth in R.C. § 2901.01.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of unlawful
collection of a bodily substance. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, unlawful collection of a bodily substance is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, unlawful collection of a bodily
substance is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.15)
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
136.01   Definitions
   
136.02   Falsification
   
136.03   Compounding a crime
   
136.04   Failure to report a crime
   
136.05   Failure to aid a law enforcement officer
   
136.06   Obstructing official business
   
136.07   Obstructing justice
   
136.08   Resisting arrest
   
136.09   Having an unlawful interest in a public contract
   
136.10   Soliciting or receiving improper compensation
   
136.11   Dereliction of duty
   
136.12   Interfering with civil rights
   
136.13   Illegal conveyance of prohibited items onto grounds of a detention
facility or other specified governmental facilities
   
136.14   False report of child abuse or neglect
   
136.15   Assaulting police dog or horse, or assistance dog
   
136.16   Disclosure of confidential peace officer information
   
136.17   Intimidation of crime victim or witness
   
136.18   Using sham legal process
   
136.19   Making false allegation of peace officer misconduct
   
136.20   Misuse of 9-1-1 system
   
136.21   Failure to disclose personal information
Cross-reference:
   Contempt of court, see §§
33.20 et seq.
   Failure to comply with order or signal of a police officer, see §
70.02
Statutory reference:
   Harassment by inmates by causing or attempting to cause contact with blood,
semen, urine, feces or other bodily substance; knowledge of AIDS, hepatitis or
tuberculosis infection; felony offenses, see R.C. § 2921.38
§ 136.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   CONTRIBUTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   DETENTION. Arrest; confinement in any vehicle subsequent to an arrest;
confinement in any public or private facility for custody of persons charged
with or convicted of crime in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent child or unruly child
in this state or another state or under the laws of the United States;
hospitalization, institutionalization, or confinement in any public or private
facility that is ordered pursuant to or under the authority of R.C. § 2945.37,
2945.371, 2945.38, 2945.39, 2945.40, 2945.401 or 2945.402; confinement in any
vehicle for transportation to or from any facility of any of those natures;
detention for extradition or deportation; except as provided in this division,
supervision by any employee of any facility of any of those natures that is
incidental to hospitalization, institutionalization, or confinement in the
facility but that occurs outside the facility; supervision by an employee of
the Department of Rehabilitation and Correction of a person on any type of
release from a state correctional institution; or confinement in any vehicle,
airplane, or place while being returned from outside of this state into this
state by a private person or entity pursuant to a contract entered into under
R.C. § 311.29(E) or R.C. § 5149.03(B). For a person confined in a county jail
who participates in a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30,
the term includes time spent at an assigned work site and going to and from the
work site.
   DETENTION FACILITY. Any public or private place used for the confinement of
a person charged with or convicted of any crime in this state or another state
or under the laws of the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent
child or an unruly child in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States.
   LEGISLATIVE CAMPAIGN FUND. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   OFFICIAL PROCEEDING. Any proceeding before a legislative, judicial,
administrative, or other governmental agency or official authorized to take
evidence under oath, and includes any proceeding before a referee, hearing
examiner, commissioner, notary, or other person taking testimony or a
deposition in connection with an official proceeding.
   PARTY OFFICIAL. Any person who holds an elective or appointive post in a
political party in the United States or this state, by virtue of which he or
she directs, conducts, or participates in directing or conducting party affairs
at any level of responsibility.
   POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   POLITICAL CONTRIBUTING ENTITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   POLITICAL PARTY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   PROVIDER AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
   PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Any elected or appointed officer, employee, or agent of the
state or any political subdivision thereof, whether in a temporary or permanent
capacity, and includes but is not limited to legislators, judges, and law
enforcement officers. The term does not include an employee, officer, or
governor-appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit
corporation formed under R.C. § 187.01.
   PUBLIC SERVANT.
      (1)   Any of the following:
         (a)   Any public official.
         (b)   Any person performing ad hoc a governmental function, including
but not limited to a juror, member of a temporary commission, master,
arbitrator, advisor, or consultant.
         (c)   A person who is a candidate for public office, whether or not he
or she is elected or appointed to the office for which he or she is a
candidate. A person is a candidate for purposes of this division if he or she
has been nominated according to law for election or appointment to public
office, or if he or she has filed a petition or petitions as required by law to
have his or her name placed on the ballot in a primary, general, or special
election, or if he or she campaigns as a write-in candidate in any primary,
general, or special election.
      (2)   The term does not include an employee, officer, or governor-
appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit corporation formed
under R.C. § 187.01.
   VALUABLE THING or VALUABLE BENEFIT. Includes but is not limited to a
contribution. This inclusion does not indicate or imply that a contribution was
not included in those terms before September 17, 1986.
(R.C. § 2921.01)
§ 136.02 FALSIFICATION.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly swear
or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, when any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The statement is made in any official proceeding.
      (2)   The statement is made with purpose to incriminate another.
      (3)   The statement is made with purpose to mislead a public official in
performing his or her official function.
      (4)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the payment of
unemployment compensation; Ohio Works First; prevention, retention and
contingency benefits and services; disability financial assistance; retirement
benefits or health care coverage from a state retirement system; economic
development assistance as defined in R.C. § 9.66; or other benefits
administered by a governmental agency or paid out of a public treasury.
      (5)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the issuance by a
governmental agency of a license, permit, authorization, certificate,
registration, release, or provider agreement.
      (6)   The statement is sworn or affirmed before a notary public or
another person empowered to administer oaths.
      (7)   The statement is in writing on or in connection with a report or
return that is required or authorized by law.
      (8)   The statement is in writing, and is made with purpose to induce
another to extend credit to or employ the offender, or to confer any degree,
diploma, certificate of attainment, award of excellence, or honor on the
offender, or to extend to or bestow upon the offender any other valuable
benefit or distinction, when the person to whom the statement is directed
relies upon it to his or her detriment.
      (9)   The statement is made with purpose to commit or facilitate the
commission of a theft offense.
      (10)   The statement is knowingly made to a probate court in connection
with any action, proceeding, or other matter within its jurisdiction, either
orally or in a written document, including but not limited to an application,
petition, complaint, or other pleading, or an inventory, account, or report.
      (11)   The statement is made on an account, form, record, stamp, label or
other writing that is required by law.
      (12)   The statement is made in connection with the purchase of a
firearm, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, and in conjunction with the furnishing
to the seller of the firearm of a fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit, a fictitious or altered identification card, or any
other document that contains false information about the purchaser’s identity.
      (13)   The statement is made in a document or instrument of writing that
purports to be a judgment, lien, or claim of indebtedness and is filed or
recorded with the Secretary of State, a county recorder, or the clerk of a
court of record.
      (14)   The statement is made in an application filed with a county
sheriff pursuant to R.C. § 2923.125 in order to obtain or renew a concealed
handgun license or is made in an affidavit submitted to a county sheriff to
obtain a concealed handgun license on a temporary emergency basis under R.C. §
2923.1213.
      (15)   The statement is required under R.C. § 5743.71 in connection with
the person’s purchase of cigarettes or tobacco products in a delivery sale.
   (B)   No person, in connection with the purchase of a firearm as defined in
R.C. § 2923.11, shall knowingly furnish to the seller of the firearm a
fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, a
fictitious or altered identification card, or any other document that contains
false information about the purchaser’s identity.
   (C)   No person, in an attempt to obtain a concealed handgun license under
R.C. § 2923.125, shall knowingly present to a sheriff a fictitious or altered
document that purports to be certification of the person’s competence in
handling a handgun as described in division (B)(3) of that section.
   (D)   It is no defense to a charge under division (A)(6) of this section
that the oath or affirmation was administered or taken in an irregular manner.
   (E)   If contradictory statements relating to the same fact are made by the
offender within the period of the statute of limitations for falsification, it
is not necessary for the prosecution to prove which statement was false, but
only that one or the other was false.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)
(5), (A)(6), (A)(7), (A)(8), (A)(10), (A)(11), (A)(13) or (A)(15) of this
section is guilty of falsification. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, falsification is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(9) of this section is guilty of
falsification in a theft offense. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, falsification in a theft offense is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the value of the property or services stolen is $1,000 or more,
falsification in a theft offense is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(12) or (B) of this section is guilty
of falsification to purchase a firearm, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (A)(14) or (C) of this section is guilty
of falsification to obtain a concealed handgun license, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section in removal
proceedings under R.C. § 319.26, 321.37, 507.13 or 733.78 is guilty of
falsification regarding a removal proceeding, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.13)
   (G)   (1)   No person who has knowingly failed to maintain proof of
financial responsibility in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101 shall produce any
document or present to a peace officer an electronic wireless communications
device that is displaying any text or images with the purpose to mislead a
peace officer upon the request of a peace officer for proof of financial
responsibility made in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101(D)(2).
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (G) is guilty of falsification, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4509.102)
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability for violations of this section, see R.C. § 2921.13(G)
§ 136.03 COMPOUNDING A CRIME.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly demand, accept, or agree to accept anything
of value in consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon a pending
criminal prosecution.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section when both
of the following apply:
      (1)   The pending prosecution involved is for a violation of R.C. §
2913.02, 2913.11, 2913.21(B)(2), or 2913.47, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, of which the actor under this section was the victim.
      (2)   The thing of value demanded, accepted, or agreed to be accepted, in
consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon the prosecution, did not
exceed an amount that the actor reasonably believed due him or her as
restitution for the loss caused him or her by the offense.
   (C)   When a prosecuting witness abandons or agrees to abandon a prosecution
under division (B) of this section, the abandonment or agreement in no way
binds the state to abandoning the prosecution.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of compounding a crime, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.21)
§ 136.04 FAILURE TO REPORT A CRIME.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, no
person, knowing that a felony has been or is being committed, shall knowingly
fail to report the information to law enforcement authorities.
      (2)   No person, knowing that a violation of R.C. § 2913.04(B) has been
or is being committed or that the person has received information derived from
such a violation, shall knowingly fail to report the violation to law
enforcement authorities.
   (B)   Except for conditions that are within the scope of division (E) of
this section, no person giving aid to a sick or injured person shall
negligently fail to report to law enforcement authorities any gunshot or stab
wound treated or observed by the person, or any serious physical harm to
persons that the person knows or has reasonable cause to believe resulted from
an offense of violence.
   (C)   No person who discovers the body or acquires the first knowledge of
the death of a person shall fail to report the death immediately to a physician
or advanced practice registered nurse whom the person knows to be treating the
deceased for a condition from which death at such time would not be unexpected,
or to a law enforcement officer, an ambulance service, an emergency squad, or
the coroner in a political subdivision in which the body is discovered, the
death is believed to have occurred, or knowledge concerning the death is
obtained. For purposes of this division, “advanced practice registered nurse”
does not include a certified registered nurse anesthetist.
   (D)   No person shall fail to provide upon request of the person to whom a
report required by division (C) of this section was made, or to any law
enforcement officer who has reasonable cause to assert the authority to
investigate the circumstances surrounding the death, any facts within his or
her knowledge that may have a bearing on the investigation of the death.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section, BURN INJURY means any of the following:
         (a)   Second or third degree burns;
         (b)   Any burns to the upper respiratory tract or laryngeal edema due
to the inhalation of super-heated air;
         (c)   Any burn injury or wound that may result in death.
      (2)   No physician, nurse, physician assistant, or limited practitioner
who, outside a hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility, attends or
treats a person who has sustained a burn injury inflicted by an explosion or
other incendiary device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a
violent, malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury
immediately to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the
jurisdiction in which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local
law enforcement authorities.
      (3)   No manager, superintendent, or other person in charge of a
hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility in which a person is attended
or treated for any burn injury inflicted by an explosion or other incendiary
device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a violent,
malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury immediately
to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the jurisdiction in
which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local law enforcement
authorities.
      (4)   No person who is required to report any burn injury under division
(E)(2) or (E)(3) of this section shall fail to file, within three working days
after attending or treating the victim, a written report of the burn injury
with the office of the State Fire Marshal. The report shall be made on a form
provided by the State Fire Marshal.
      (5)   Anyone participating in the making of reports under division (E) of
this section or anyone participating in a judicial proceeding resulting from
the reports is immune from any civil or criminal liability that otherwise might
be incurred or imposed as a result of such actions. Notwithstanding R.C. §
4731.22, the physician-patient relationship or advanced practice registered
nurse-patient relationship is not a ground for excluding evidence regarding a
person’s burn injury or the cause of the burn injury in any judicial proceeding
resulting from a report submitted under division (E) of this section.
   (F)   (1)   Any doctor of medicine or osteopathic medicine, hospital intern
or resident, nurse, psychologist, social worker, independent social worker,
social work assistant, licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed
professional counselor, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage
and family therapist who knows or has reasonable cause to believe that a
patient or client has been the victim of domestic violence, as defined in R.C.
§ 3113.31, shall note that knowledge or belief and the basis for it in the
patient’s or client’s records.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4731.22, the physician-patient privilege or
advanced practice registered nurse-patient privilege shall not be a ground for
excluding any information regarding the report containing the knowledge or
belief noted under division (F)(1) of this section, and the information may be
admitted as evidence in accordance with the Rules of Evidence.
   (G)   Division (A) or (D) of this section does not require disclosure of
information, when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The information is privileged by reason of the relationship between
attorney and client; physician and patient; advanced practice registered nurse
and patient; licensed psychologist or licensed school psychologist and client;
licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed professional counselor,
independent social worker, social worker, independent marriage and family
therapist, or marriage and family therapist and client; member of the clergy,
rabbi, minister, or priest and any person communicating information
confidentially to the member of the clergy, rabbi, minister, or priest for a
religious counseling purpose of a professional character; husband and wife; or
a communications assistant and those who are a party to a telecommunications
relay service call.
      (2)   The information would tend to incriminate a member of the actor’s
immediate family.
      (3)   Disclosure of the information would amount to revealing a news
source, privileged under R.C. § 2739.04 or 2739.12.
      (4)   Disclosure of the information would amount to disclosure by a
member of the ordained clergy of an organized religious body of a confidential
communication made to that member of the clergy in that member's capacity as a
member of the clergy by a person seeking the aid or counsel of that member of
the clergy.
      (5)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of the actor's duties in connection with a bona fide
program of treatment or services for persons with drug dependencies or persons
in danger of drug dependence, which program is maintained or conducted by a
hospital, clinic, person, agency, or community addiction services provider
whose alcohol and drug addiction services are certified pursuant to R.C. §
5119.36.
      (6)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of the actor's duties in connection with a bona fide
program for providing counseling services to victims of crimes that are
violations of R.C. § 2907.02 or R.C. § 2907.05 or to victims of felonious
sexual penetration in violation of former R.C. § 2907.12. As used in this
division, "counseling services" include services provided in an informal
setting by a person who, by education or experience, is competent to provide
those services.
   (H)   No disclosure of information pursuant to this section gives rise to
any liability or recrimination for a breach of privilege or confidence.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of
failure to report a crime. Violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Violation of division (A)(2) or (B) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of
failure to report knowledge of a death, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (K)   (1)   Whoever negligently violates division (E) of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever knowingly violates division (E) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (L)   As used in this section, NURSE includes an advanced practice
registered nurse, registered nurse, and licensed practical nurse.
(R.C. § 2921.22)
§ 136.05 FAILURE TO AID A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall negligently fail or refuse to aid a law enforcement
officer, when called upon for assistance in preventing or halting the
commission of an offense, or in apprehending or detaining an offender, when the
aid can be given without a substantial risk of physical harm to the person
giving it.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to aid a law
enforcement officer, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2921.23)
§ 136.06 OBSTRUCTING OFFICIAL BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so and with purpose to prevent,
obstruct, or delay the performance by a public official of any authorized act
within the public official’s official capacity, shall do any act that hampers
or impedes a public official in the performance of the public official’s lawful
duties.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing official
business. Except as otherwise provided in this division, obstructing official
business is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If a violation of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, obstructing official business is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.31)
§ 136.07 OBSTRUCTING JUSTICE.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to hinder the discovery, apprehension,
prosecution, conviction, or punishment of another for crime, or to assist
another to benefit from the commission of a crime, and no person, with purpose
to hinder the discovery, apprehension, prosecution, adjudication as a
delinquent child, or disposition of a child for an act that if committed by an
adult would be a crime or to assist a child to benefit from the commission of
an act that if committed by an adult would be a crime, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Harbor or conceal the other person or child.
      (2)   Provide the other person or child with money, transportation, a
weapon, a disguise, or other means of avoiding discovery or apprehension.
      (3)   Warn the other person or child of impending discovery or
apprehension.
      (4)   Destroy or conceal physical evidence of the crime or act, or induce
any person to withhold testimony or information or to elude legal process
summoning him or her to testify or supply evidence.
      (5)   Communicate false information to any person.
      (6)   Prevent or obstruct any person, by means of force, intimidation, or
deception, from performing any act to aid in the discovery, apprehension, or
prosecution of the other person or child.
   (B)   A person may be prosecuted for, and may be convicted of or adjudicated
a delinquent child for committing, a violation of division (A) of this section
regardless of whether the person or child aided ultimately is apprehended for,
is charged with, is convicted of, pleads guilty to, or is adjudicated a
delinquent child for committing the crime or act the person or child aided
committed. The crime or act the person or child aided committed shall be used
under division (C) of this section in determining the penalty for violation of
division (A) of this section, regardless of whether the person or child aided
ultimately is apprehended for, is charge with, is convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or is adjudicated a delinquent child for committing the crime or act the
person or child aided committed.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing justice.
      (1)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a misdemeanor or if
the act committed by the child aided would be a misdemeanor if committed by an
adult, obstructing justice is a misdemeanor of the same degree as the crime
committed by the person aided or a misdemeanor of the same degree that the act
committed by the child aided would be if committed by an adult.
      (2)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a felony or if the
act committed by the child aided would be a felony if committed by an adult, or
if the crime or act committed by the person or child aided is an act of
terrorism, obstructing justice is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      ACT OF TERRORISM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.21.
      ADULT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
      CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
      DELINQUENT CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
(R.C. § 2921.32)
§ 136.08 RESISTING ARREST.
   (A)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of himself, herself or another.
   (B)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person and, during the course of or as a
result of the resistance or interference, cause physical harm to a law
enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person if either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The offender, during the course of or as a result of the resistance
or interference, recklessly causes physical harm to a law enforcement officer
by means of a deadly weapon; or
      (2)   The offender, during the course of the resistance or interference,
brandishes a deadly weapon.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of resisting arrest. A
violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, DEADLY WEAPON has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2923.11.
(R.C. § 2921.33)
Statutory reference:
   Unlawful taking of deadly weapon from a law enforcement officer, felony
offense, see R.C. § 2911.01
§ 136.09 HAVING AN UNLAWFUL INTEREST IN A PUBLIC CONTRACT.
   (A)   No public official shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Authorize or employ the authority of the public official’s office
to secure authorization of any public contract in which the public official, a
member of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s
business associates has an interest.
      (2)   Authorize or employ the authority or influence of the public
official’s office to secure the investment of public funds in any share, bond,
mortgage, or other security with respect to which the public official, a member
of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates either has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any
brokerage, origination, or servicing fees.
      (3)   During the public official’s term of office or within one year
thereafter, occupy any position of profit in the prosecution of a public
contract authorized by the public official or by a legislative body,
commission, or board of which the public official was a member at the time of
authorization, unless the contract was let by competitive bidding to the lowest
and best bidder.
      (4)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
entered into by or for the use of the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality with which the public official is connected.
      (5)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
that is not let by competitive bidding when required by law, and that involves
more than $150.
   (B)   In the absence of bribery or a purpose to defraud, a public official,
member of a public official’s family, or any of a public official’s business
associates shall not be considered as having an interest in a public contract
or the investment of public funds, if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The interest of that person is limited to owning or controlling
shares of the corporation, or being a creditor of the corporation or other
organization, that is the contractor on the public contract involved, or that
is the issuer of the security in which public funds are invested.
      (2)   The shares owned or controlled by that person do not exceed 5% of
the outstanding shares of the corporation, and the amount due that person as
creditor does not exceed 5% of the total indebtedness of the corporation or
other organization.
      (3)   That person, prior to the time the public contract is entered into,
files with the political subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality
involved, an affidavit giving that person’s exact status in connection with the
corporation or other organization.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a public contract in which a public
official, member of a public official’s family, or one of a public official’s
business associates has an interest, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The subject of the public contract is necessary supplies or
services for the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved.
      (2)   The supplies or services are unobtainable elsewhere for the same or
lower cost, or are being furnished to the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality as part of a continuing course of dealing established
prior to the public official’s becoming associated with the political
subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality involved.
      (3)   The treatment accorded the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality is either preferential to or the same as that
accorded other customers or clients in similar transactions.
      (4)   The entire transaction is conducted at arm’s length, with full
knowledge by the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved, of the interest of the public official, member of the
public official’s family, or business associate, and the public official takes
no part in the deliberations or decision of the political subdivision or
governmental agency or instrumentality with respect to the public contract.
   (D)   Division (A)(4) of this section does not prohibit participation by a
public employee in any housing program funded by public monies if the public
employee otherwise qualifies for the program and does not use the authority or
influence of the public employee’s office or employment to secure benefits from
the program and if the monies are to be used on the primary residence of the
public employee. Such participation does not constitute an unlawful interest in
a public contract in violation of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having an unlawful interest
in a public contract. Violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Violation of division
(A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (F)   It is not a violation of this section for a prosecuting attorney to
appoint assistants and employees in accordance with R.C. §§ 309.06 and
2921.421, or for a chief legal officer of a municipality or an official
designated as prosecutor in a municipality to appoint assistants and employees
in accordance with R.C. §§ 733.621 and 2921.421, or for a township law director
appointed under R.C. § 504.15 to appoint assistants and employees in accordance
with R.C. §§ 504.151 and 2921.421.
   (G)   Any public contract in which a public official, a member of the public
official’s family, or any of the public official’s business associates has an
interest in violation of this section is void and unenforceable. Any contract
securing the investment of public funds in which a public official, a member of
the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any brokerage,
origination or servicing fees and that was entered into in violation of this
section is void and unenforceable.
   (H)   As used in this section:
      CHIEF LEGAL OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 733.621.
      PUBLIC CONTRACT. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The purchase or acquisition, or a contract for the purchase or
acquisition, of property or services by or for the use of the state or any of
its political subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either,
including the employment of an individual by the state, any of its political
subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either.
         (b)   A contract for the design, construction, alteration, repair, or
maintenance of any public property.
(R.C. § 2921.42)
Statutory reference:
   Assistants and employees of Prosecutors, Law Directors, and Solicitors, see
R.C. § 2921.421
§ 136.10 SOLICITING OR RECEIVING IMPROPER COMPENSATION.
   (A)   No public servant shall knowingly solicit or accept and no person
shall knowingly promise or give to a public servant either of the following:
      (1)   Any compensation, other than as allowed by R.C. § 102.03(G), (H),
(I), or other provisions of law, to perform the public servant’s official
duties, to perform any other act or service in the public servant’s public
capacity, for the general performance of the duties of the public servant’s
public office or public employment, or as a supplement to the public servant’s
public compensation.
      (2)   Additional or greater fees or costs than are allowed by law to
perform the public servant’s official duties.
   (B)   No public servant for the public servant’s own personal or business
use and no person for the person’s own personal or business use or for the
personal or business use of a public servant or party official, shall solicit
or accept anything of value in consideration of either of the following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of employment.
   (C)   No person for the benefit of a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity shall coerce any contribution in consideration of either of the
following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of employment.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of soliciting improper
compensation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   A public servant who is convicted of a violation of this section is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of trust
in this state for a period of seven years from the date of conviction.
   (F)   Divisions (A), (B), and (C) of this section do not prohibit any person
from making voluntary contributions to a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity or prohibit a political party, campaign committee, legislative campaign
fund, political action committee or political contributing entity from
accepting voluntary contributions.
(R.C. § 2921.43)
§ 136.11 DERELICTION OF DUTY.
   (A)   No law enforcement officer shall negligently do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to serve a lawful warrant without delay.
      (2)   Fail to prevent or halt the commission of an offense or to
apprehend an offender, when it is in the law enforcement officer’s power to do
so alone or with available assistance.
   (B)   No law enforcement, ministerial, or judicial officer shall negligently
fail to perform a lawful duty in a criminal case or proceeding.
   (C)   No officer, having charge of a detention facility, shall negligently
do any of the following:
      (1)   Allow the detention facility to become littered or unsanitary.
      (2)   Fail to provide persons confined in the detention facility with
adequate food, clothing, bedding, shelter, and medical attention.
      (3)   Fail to control an unruly prisoner, or to prevent intimidation of
or physical harm to a prisoner by another.
      (4)   Allow a prisoner to escape.
      (5)   Fail to observe any lawful and reasonable regulation for the
management of the detention facility.
   (D)   No public official shall recklessly create a deficiency, incur a
liability, or expend a greater sum than is appropriated by the Legislative
Authority for the use in any one year of the department, agency, or institution
with which the public official is connected.
   (E)   No public servant shall recklessly fail to perform a duty expressly
imposed by law with respect to the public servant’s office, or recklessly do
any act expressly forbidden by law with respect to the public servant’s office.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of dereliction of duty, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   Except as otherwise provided by law, a public servant who is a county
treasurer; county auditor; township fiscal officer; city auditor; city
treasurer; village fiscal officer; village clerk-treasurer; village clerk; in
the case of a municipal corporation having a charter that designates an officer
who, by virtue of the charter, has duties and functions similar to those of the
city or village officers referred to in this section, the officer so designated
by the charter; school district treasurer; fiscal officer of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; treasurer of a science, technology,
engineering, and mathematics school established under R.C. Chapter 3326; or
fiscal officer of a college-preparatory boarding school established under R.C.
Chapter 3328 and is convicted of or pleads guilty to dereliction of duty is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of trust
in this state for four years following the date of conviction or of entry of
the plea, and is not entitled to hold any public office until any repayment or
restitution required by the court is satisfied.
   (H)   As used in this section, PUBLIC SERVANT includes the following:
      (1)   An officer or employee of a contractor as defined in R.C. § 9.08;
      (2)   A fiscal officer employed by the operator of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314 or by the operator of a college-preparatory
boarding school established under R.C. Chapter 3328.
(R.C. § 2921.44)
§ 136.12 INTERFERING WITH CIVIL RIGHTS.
   (A)   No public servant, under color of the public servant's office,
employment, or authority, shall knowingly deprive, or conspire or attempt to
deprive any person of a constitutional or statutory right.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interfering with civil
rights, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.45)
Statutory reference:
   Restraining or confining pregnant children or pregnant women, see R.C. §
2152.75(B) and R.C.
§ 136.13 ILLEGAL CONVEYANCE OF PROHIBITED ITEMS ONTO GROUNDS OF A DETENTION
FACILITY OR OTHER SPECIFIED GOVERNMENTAL FACILITY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly convey, or attempt to convey, onto the
grounds of a detention facility or of an institution, office building, or other
place that is under the control of the Department of Mental Health and
Addiction Services, the Department of Developmental Disabilities, the
Department of Youth Services, or the Department of Rehabilitation and
Correction, any of the following items:
      (1)   Any deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance, as defined in R.C. §
2923.11, or any part of or ammunition for use in such deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   Any drug of abuse, as defined in R.C. § 3719.011.
      (3)   Any intoxicating liquor, as defined in R.C. § 4301.01, except for
small amounts of wine for sacramental purposes when the person engaging in the
specified conduct is a cleric, as defined in R.C. § 2317.02.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who conveys
or attempts to convey an item onto the grounds of a detention facility or of an
institution, office building, or other place under the control of the
Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services, the Department of
Developmental Disabilities, the Department of Youth Services, or the Department
of Rehabilitation and Correction, with written authorization of the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution, office building, or other
place and in accordance with the written rules of the detention facility or the
institution, office building, or other place.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, to a prisoner who is temporarily released from confinement
for a work assignment, or to any patient in an institution under the control of
the Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services or the Department of
Developmental Disabilities, any item listed in division (A).
   (D)   No person shall knowingly deliver or attempt to deliver cash to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment.
   (E)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment a cellular telephone, two-way radio, or other
electronic communications device.
   (F)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(1)
of this section that the weapon or dangerous ordnance in question was being
transported in a motor vehicle for any lawful purpose, that it was not on the
actor’s person, and if the weapon or dangerous ordnance was a firearm, that it
was unloaded and was being carried in a closed package, box or case or in a
compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (C) of this
section that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by law from delivering the
item to the confined person, the child, the prisoner, or the patient and that
either of the following applies:
         (a)   The actor was permitted by the written rules of the detention
facility or the institution, office building, or other place to deliver the
item to the confined person or the patient.
         (b)   The actor was given written authorization by the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution, office building, or other
place to deliver the item to the confined person or the patient.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any item listed in division
(A)(1) of this section is guilty of illegal conveyance of weapons onto the
grounds of a specified governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any drug of abuse is guilty
of illegal conveyance of drugs of abuse onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any intoxicating liquor is
guilty of illegal conveyance of intoxicating liquor onto the grounds of a
specified governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of cash onto the grounds of a detention facility, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (D) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, illegal conveyance of cash onto
the grounds of a detention facility is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
illegal conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a detention
facility is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.36)
   (H)   The person in charge of a detention facility shall, on the grounds of
the detention facility, have the same power as a peace officer, as defined in
R.C. § 2935.01, to arrest a person who violates this section.
(R.C. § 2921.37)
Cross-reference:
   Possession of an object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety
zone, see §
137.11
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, see §
137.12
Statutory reference:
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122
   Conveyance, possession, or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance
in a courthouse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.123
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
§ 136.14 FALSE REPORT OF CHILD ABUSE OR NEGLECT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause another person to make a false
report under R.C. § 2151.421(B) alleging that any person has committed an act
or omission that resulted in a child being an abused child as defined in R.C. §
2151.031 or a neglected child as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or causing a false
report of child abuse or child neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.14)
§ 136.15 ASSAULTING POLICE DOG OR HORSE, OR ASSISTANCE DOG.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
a police dog or horse in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in
the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical harm
is caused or attempted.
      (2)   The police dog or horse is not assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical
harm is caused or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge that the dog
or horse is a police dog or horse.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike a police dog or horse;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at a police dog or horse;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct a police dog or horse, or interfere with
or obstruct a law enforcement officer who is being assisted by a police dog or
horse, in a manner that does any of the following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the law enforcement officer’s control of
the police dog or horse;
         (b)   Deprives the law enforcement officer of control of the police
dog or horse;
         (c)   Releases the police dog or horse from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the police dog or horse without
the consent of the law enforcement officer, including placing food or any other
object or substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the police dog or horse to
assist a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to a police dog or horse;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger a police dog or horse that at the time of the conduct, the
police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in the performance
of the officer's duties or that the person knows is a police dog or horse.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
an assistance dog in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The dog, at the time the physical harm is caused or attempted, is
assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment.
      (2)   The dog, at the time the physical harm is caused or attempted, is
not assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment, but the offender has actual knowledge that
the dog is an assistance dog.
   (D)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike an assistance dog;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at an assistance dog;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct an assistance dog, or interfere with or
obstruct a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a person with a
mobility impairment who is being assisted or served by an assistance dog, in a
manner that does any of the following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the assisted or served person’s control of
the dog;
         (b)   Deprives the assisted or served person of control of the dog;
         (c)   Releases the dog from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the dog without the consent of the
assisted or served person, including placing food or any other object or
substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the dog to assist the
assisted or served person;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to an assistance dog;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger an assistance dog that at the time of the conduct is
assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment or that the person knows is an assistance
dog.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
assaulting a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, assaulting a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. If the violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse
other than death or serious physical harm, assaulting a police dog or horse is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death, assaulting a police
dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
harassing a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided this division,
harassing a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse but does not
result in its death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing a police dog
or horse is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in
serous physical harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death,
harassing a police dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
assaulting an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog other than death or
serious physical harm, assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the violation results in serious physical harm to the
assistance dog or results in its death, assaulting an assistance dog is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
harassing an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
harassing an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog but does not result in
the death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing an assistance dog is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the assistance dog or results in its death, harassing an assistance dog
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   In addition to any other sanctions or penalty imposed for the
offense under this section, R.C. Chapter 2929 or any other provision of the
Ohio Revised Code or this code, whoever violates division (A), (B), (C), or (D)
of this section is responsible for the payment of all of the following:
         (a)   Any veterinary bill or bill for medication incurred as a result
of the violation by the police department regarding a violation of division (A)
or (B) of this section or by the person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired
or the person with a mobility impairment assisted or served by the assistance
dog regarding a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section;
         (b)   The cost of any damaged equipment that results from the
violation;
         (c)   If the violation did not result in the death of the police dog
or horse or the assistance dog that was the subject of the violation and if, as
a result of that dog or horse being the subject of the violation, the dog or
horse needs further training or retraining to be able to continue in the
capacity of a police dog or horse or an assistance dog, the cost of any further
training or retraining of that dog or horse by a law enforcement officer or by
the person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or the person with a
mobility impairment assisted or served by the assistance dog;
         (d)   If the violation resulted in the death of the assistance dog
that was the subject of the violation or resulted in serious physical harm to
the police dog or horse or the assistance dog or horse that was the subject of
the violation to the extent that the dog or horse needs to be replaced on
either a temporary or a permanent basis, the cost of replacing that dog or
horse and of any further training of a new police dog or horse or a new
assistance dog by a law enforcement officer or by the person who is blind,
deaf, or hearing impaired or the person with a mobility impairment assisted or
served by the assistance dog, which replacement or training is required because
of the death of or the serious physical harm to the dog or horse that was the
subject of the violation.
   (F)   This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian whose conduct
is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4741.
   (G)   This section only applies to an offender who knows or should know at
the time of the violation that the police dog or horse or assistance dog that
is the subject of a violation under this section is a police dog or horse or an
assistance dog.
   (H)   As used in this section:
      ASSISTANCE DOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      BLIND. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      PERSON WITH A MOBILITY IMPAIRMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
955.011.
      PHYSICAL HARM. Means any injury, illness, or other psychological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
      POLICE DOG OR HORSE. Means a dog or horse that has been trained and may
be used to assist law enforcement officers in the performance of their official
duties.
      SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death.
         (b)   Any physical harm that causes permanent maiming or that involves
some temporary, substantial maiming.
         (c)   Any physical harm that causes acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering.
(R.C. § 2921.321)
§ 136.16 DISCLOSURE OF CONFIDENTIAL PEACE OFFICER INFORMATION.
   (A)   No officer or employee of a law enforcement agency or court, or of the
clerk’s office of any court, shall disclose during the pendency of any criminal
case the home address of any peace officer, parole officer, prosecuting
attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or youth
services employee who is a witness or arresting officer in the case.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not prohibit a peace officer, parole
officer, prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional
employee, or youth services employee from disclosing the peace officer’s,
parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant prosecuting attorney’s,
correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s own home address, and
does not apply to any person who discloses the home address of a peace officer,
parole officer, prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney,
correctional employee, or youth services employee pursuant to a court-ordered
disclosure under division (C) of this section.
   (C)   The court in which any criminal case is pending may order the
disclosure of the home address of any peace officer, parole officer,
prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or
youth services employee who is a witness or arresting officer in the case, if
the court determines after a written request for the disclosure that good cause
exists for disclosing the home address of the peace officer, parole officer,
prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or
youth services employee.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of disclosure
of confidential information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2921.24)
   (E)   No judge of a court of record, or Mayor presiding over a Mayor’s
Court, shall order a peace officer, parole officer, prosecuting attorney,
assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or youth services
employee who is a witness in a criminal case, to disclose the peace officer’s,
parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant prosecuting attorney’s,
correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s home address during the
peace officer’s, parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant
prosecuting attorney’s, correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s
examination in the case unless the judge or Mayor determines that the defendant
has a right to the disclosure.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
      CORRECTIONAL EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 149.43.
      YOUTH SERVICES EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 149.43.
(R.C. § 2921.25)
§ 136.17 INTIMIDATION OF CRIME VICTIM OR WITNESS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly attempt to intimidate or hinder the victim
of a crime or delinquent act in the filing or prosecution of criminal charges
or a delinquent child action or proceeding, and no person shall knowingly
attempt to intimidate a witness to a criminal or delinquent act by reason of
the person being a witness to that act.
   (B)   No person, knowingly and by force or by unlawful threat of harm to any
person or property or by unlawful threat to commit any offense or calumny
against any person, shall attempt to influence, intimidate, or hinder any of
the following persons:
      (1)   The victim of a crime or delinquent act in the filing or
prosecution of criminal charges or a delinquent child action or proceeding;
      (2)   A witness to a criminal or delinquent act by reason of the person
being a witness to that act;
      (3)   An attorney by reason of the attorney’s involvement in any criminal
or delinquent child action or proceeding.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who is
attempting to resolve a dispute pertaining to the alleged commission of a
criminal offense, either prior to or subsequent to the filing of a complaint,
indictment, or information by participating in the arbitration, mediation,
compromise, settlement or conciliation of that dispute pursuant to an
authorization for arbitration, mediation, compromise, settlement, or
conciliation of a dispute of that nature that is conferred by any of the
following:
      (1)   A section of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (2)   The Rules of Criminal Procedure, the Rules of Superintendence for
Municipal Courts and County Courts, the Rules of Superintendence for Courts of
Common Pleas, or another rule adopted by the Ohio Supreme Court in accordance
with Ohio Constitution, Article IV, Section 5.
      (3)   A local rule of court, including but not limited to a local rule of
court that relates to alternative dispute resolution or other case management
programs and that authorizes the referral of disputes pertaining to the alleged
commission of certain types of criminal offenses to appropriate and available
arbitration, mediation, compromise, settlement or other conciliation programs.
      (4)   The order of a judge of a municipal court, county court, or court
of common pleas.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of intimidation of an
attorney, victim or witness in a criminal case. A violation of division (A) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. A violation of division (B)
of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, WITNESS means any person who has or claims to
have knowledge concerning a fact or facts concerning a criminal or delinquent
act, whether or not criminal or delinquent child charges are actually filed.
(R.C. § 2921.04)
Statutory reference:
   Retaliation, felony offense, see R.C. § 2921.05
§ 136.18 USING SHAM LEGAL PROCESS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      LAWFULLY ISSUED. Means adopted, issued, or rendered in accordance with
the United States Constitution, the Constitution of a state, and the applicable
statutes, rules, regulations and ordinances of the United States, a state, and
the political subdivisions of a state.
      POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS. Means municipal corporations, townships,
counties, school districts, and all other bodies corporate and politic that are
organized under state law and are responsible for governmental activities only
in geographical areas smaller than that of a state.
      SHAM LEGAL PROCESS. Means an instrument that meets all of the following
conditions:
         (a)   It is not lawfully issued.
         (b)   It purports to do any of the following:
            1.   To be a summons, subpoena, judgment, or order of a court, a
law enforcement officer, or a legislative, executive or administrative body.
            2.   To assert jurisdiction over or determine the legal or
equitable status, rights, duties, powers, or privileges of any person or
property.
            3.   To require or authorize the search, seizure, indictment,
arrest, trial, or sentencing of any person or property.
         (c)   It is designed to make another person believe that it is
lawfully issued.
      STATE. Means a state of the United States, including without limitation
the state legislature, the highest court of the state that has statewide
jurisdiction, the offices of all elected state officers, and all departments,
boards, offices, commissions, agencies, institutions, and other
instrumentalities of the state. The term does not include the political
subdivisions of the state.
   (B)   No person shall, knowing the sham legal process to be a sham legal
process, do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly issue, display, deliver, distribute, or otherwise use
sham legal process.
      (2)   Knowingly use sham legal process to arrest, detain, search or seize
any person or the property of another person.
      (3)   Knowingly commit or facilitate the commission of an offense using
sham legal process.
      (4)   Knowingly commit a felony by using sham legal process.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(1) or (B)
(2) of this section that the use of sham legal process was for a lawful
purpose.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using sham legal process. A
violation of division (B)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. A violation of division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the purpose of a violation of
division (B)(3) of this section is to commit or facilitate the commission of a
felony, a violation of division (B)(3) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (B)(4) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.52(A) - (D))
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability, see R.C. § 2921.52(E)
§ 136.19 MAKING FALSE ALLEGATION OF PEACE OFFICER MISCONDUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2935.01.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly file a complaint against a peace officer
that alleges that the peace officer engaged in misconduct in the performance of
the officer’s duties if the person knows that the allegation is false.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of making a
false allegation of peace officer misconduct, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2921.15)
§ 136.20 MISUSE OF 9-1-1 SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, 9-1-1 SYSTEM means a system through which
individuals can request emergency service using the access number 9-1-1.
(R.C. § 128.01(A))
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use the telephone number of a 9-1-1 system
established under R.C. Chapter 128 to report an emergency if the person knows
that no emergency exists.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly use a 9-1-1 system for a purpose other than
obtaining emergency service.
   (D)   No person shall disclose or use any information concerning telephone
numbers, addresses, or names obtained from the database that serves the public
safety answering point of a 9-1-1 system established under R.C. Chapter 128,
except for any of the following purposes or under any of the following
circumstances:
      (1)   For the purpose of the 9-1-1 system;
      (2)   For the purpose of responding to an emergency call to an emergency
service provider;
      (3)   In the circumstance of the inadvertent disclosure of such
information due solely to technology of the wireless telephone network portion
of the 9-1-1 system not allowing access to the database to be restricted to 9-
1-1 specific answering lines at a public safety answering point;
      (4)   In the circumstance of access to a database being given by a
telephone company that is a wireless service provider to a public utility or
municipal utility in handling customer calls in times of public emergency or
service outages. The charge, terms, and conditions for the disclosure or use of
such information for the purpose of such access to a database shall be subject
to the jurisdiction of the Steering Committee;
      (5)   In the circumstance of access to a database given by a telephone
company that is a wireline service provider to a state and local government in
warning of a public emergency, as determined by the Steering Committee. The
charge, terms and conditions for the disclosure or use of that information for
the purpose of access to a database is subject to the jurisdiction of the
Steering Committee.
(R.C. § 128.96(F) - (H))
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 128.99(A), (B))
§ 136.21 FAILURE TO DISCLOSE PERSONAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   No person who is in a public place shall refuse to disclose the
person’s name, address, or date of birth, when requested by a law enforcement
officer who reasonably suspects either of the following:
      (1)   The person is committing, has committed, or is about to commit a
criminal offense.
      (2)   The person witnessed any of the following:
         (a)   An offense of violence that would constitute a felony under the
laws of this state;
         (b)   A felony offense that causes or results in, or creates a
substantial risk of, serious physical harm to another person or property;
         (c)   Any attempt or conspiracy to commit, or complicity in
committing, any offenses identified in division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this
section;
         (d)   Any conduct reasonably indicating that any offense identified in
division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this section or any attempt, conspiracy, or
complicity described in division (A)(2)(c) of this section has been, is being,
or is about to be committed.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of failure to
disclose one’s personal information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (C)   Nothing in division (A) of this section requires a person to answer
any questions beyond that person’s name, address, or date of birth. Nothing in
division (A) of this section authorizes a law enforcement officer to arrest a
person for not providing any information beyond the person’s name, address, or
date of birth or for refusing to describe the offense observed.
   (D)   It is not a violation of division (A) of this section to refuse to
answer a question that would reveal a person’s age or date of birth if age is
an element of the crime that the person is suspected of committing.
(R.C. § 2921.29)
   (E)   No person entering an airport, train station, port, or other similar
critical transportation infrastructure site shall refuse to show identification
when requested by a law enforcement officer when there is a threat to security
and the law enforcement officer is requiring identification of all persons
entering the site.
   (F)   A law enforcement officer may prevent any person who refuses to show
identification when asked under the circumstances described in division (E) of
this section from entering the critical transportation infrastructure site.
(R.C. § 2909.31)
CHAPTER 137: WEAPONS CONTROL
Section
   
137.01   Definitions
   
137.02   Carrying concealed weapons
   
137.03   Using weapons while intoxicated
   
137.04   Improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle
   
137.05   Possessing criminal tools
   
137.06   Failure to secure dangerous ordnance
   
137.07   Unlawful transactions in weapons
   
137.08   Underage purchase of firearm or handgun
   
137.09   Pointing and discharging firearms and other weapons
   
137.10   License or permit to possess dangerous ordnance
   
137.11   Possession of an object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school
safety zone
   
137.12   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention
   
137.13   Concealed handgun licenses: possession of a revoked or suspended
license; additional restrictions; posting of signs prohibiting possession
   
137.14   Defaced firearms
Cross-reference:
   Conveyance into certain facilities, see §
136.13
   Injury to persons by hunters, see §
135.05
   Injury to property by hunters, see §
131.24
   Using weapons to endanger or damage aircraft or airport operations, see §
131.05
Statutory reference:
   Return of surrendered firearms by law enforcement, see R.C. § 2923.163
§ 137.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE DUTY. Has the same meaning as defined in 10 U.S.C. § 101.
   ALIEN REGISTRATION NUMBER. The number issued by the United States
Citizenship and Immigration Services Agency that is located on the alien’s
permanent resident card and may also be commonly referred to as the “USCIS
number” or the “alien number”.
   AUTOMATIC FIREARM. Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a
succession of cartridges with a single function of the trigger.
   BALLISTIC KNIFE. A knife with a detachable blade that is propelled by a
spring-operated mechanism.
   CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED HANDGUN.
      (1)   Means, subject to division (2) of this definition, a license or
temporary emergency license to carry a concealed handgun issued under R.C. §
2923.125 or R.C. § 2923.1213 or a license to carry a concealed handgun issued
by another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
      (2)   A reference in any provision of this Code to a concealed handgun
license issued under R.C. § 2923.125 or a license to carry a concealed handgun
issued under R.C. § 2923.125 means only a license of the type that is specified
in that section. A reference in any provision of this Code to a concealed
handgun license issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, a license to carry a concealed
handgun issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, or a license to carry a concealed
handgun on a temporary emergency basis means only a license of the type that is
specified in R.C. § 2923.1213. A reference in any provision of this Code to a
concealed handgun license issued by another state or a license to carry a
concealed handgun issued by another state means only a license issued by
another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
      (1)   Any of the following, except as provided in division (2) of this
definition:
         (a)   Any automatic or sawed-off firearm, zip-gun, or ballistic knife.
         (b)   Any explosive device or incendiary device.
         (c)   Nitroglycerin, nitrocellulose, nitrostarch, PETN, cyclonite,
TNT, picric acid, and other high explosives; amatol, tritonal, tetrytol,
pentolite, pecretol, cyclotol, and other high explosive compositions; plastic
explosives; dynamite, blasting gelatin, gelatin dynamite, sensitized ammonium
nitrate, liquid-oxygen blasting explosives, blasting powder, and other blasting
agents; and any other explosive substance having sufficient brisance or power
to be particularly suitable for use as a military explosive, or for use in
mining, quarrying, excavating, or demolitions.
         (d)   Any firearm, rocket launcher, mortar, artillery piece, grenade,
mine, bomb, torpedo, or similar weapon, designed and manufactured for military
purposes, and the ammunition for that weapon.
         (e)   Any firearm muffler or suppressor.
         (f)   Any combination of parts that is intended by the owner for use
in converting any firearm or other device into a dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   The term does not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any firearm, including a military weapon and the ammunition for
that weapon, and regardless of its actual age, that employs a percussion cap or
other obsolete ignition system, or that is designed and safe for use only with
black powder.
         (b)   Any pistol, rifle, or shotgun, designed or suitable for sporting
purposes, including a military weapon as issued or as modified, and the
ammunition for that weapon, unless the firearm is an automatic or sawed-off
firearm.
         (c)   Any cannon or other artillery piece that, regardless of its
actual age, is of a type in accepted use prior to 1887, has no mechanical,
hydraulic, pneumatic, or other system for absorbing recoil and returning the
tube into battery without displacing the carriage, and is designed and safe for
use only with black powder.
         (d)   Black powder, priming quills, and percussion caps possessed and
lawfully used to fire a cannon of a type defined in division (2)(c) of this
definition during displays, celebrations, organized matches or shoots, and
target practice, and smokeless and black powder, primers, and percussion caps
possessed and lawfully used as a propellant or ignition device in small-arms or
small-arms ammunition.
         (e)   Dangerous ordnance that is inoperable or inert and cannot
readily be rendered operable or activated, and that is kept as a trophy,
souvenir, curio, or museum piece.
         (f)   Any device that is expressly excepted from the definition of a
destructive device pursuant to the Gun Control Act of 1968, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)
(4), as amended, and regulations issued under that act.
         (g)   Any firearm with an overall length of at least 26 inches that is
approved for sale by the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and
Explosives under the “Gun Control Act of 1968”, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921
(a)(3), but that is found by the Bureau not to be regulated under the “National
Firearms Act”, 68A Stat. 725 (1934), 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   DEADLY WEAPON. Any instrument, device, or thing capable of inflicting death,
and designed or specially adapted for use as a weapon, or possessed, carried,
or used as a weapon.
   EXPLOSIVE. Any chemical compound, mixture, or device, the primary or common
purpose of which is to function by explosion. The term includes all materials
that have been classified as division 1.1, division 1.2, division 1.3, or
division 1.4 explosives by the United States Department of Transportation in
its regulations and includes but is not limited to dynamite, black powder,
pellet powders, initiating explosives, blasting caps, electric blasting caps,
safety fuses, fuse igniters, squibs, cordeau detonant fuses, instantaneous
fuses, and igniter cords and igniters. The term does not include “fireworks,”
as defined in R.C. § 3743.01, or any substance or material otherwise meeting
the definition of explosive set forth in this section that is manufactured,
sold, possessed, transported, stored, or used in any activity described in R.C.
§ 3743.80, provided the activity is conducted in accordance with all applicable
laws, rules, and regulations, including but not limited to the provisions of
R.C. § 3743.80 and the rules of the Fire Marshal adopted pursuant to R.C. §
3737.82.
   EXPLOSIVE DEVICE. Any device designed or specially adapted to cause physical
harm to persons or property by means of an explosion, and consisting of an
explosive substance or agency and a means to detonate it. The term includes
without limitation any bomb, any explosive demolition device, any blasting cap
or detonator containing an explosive charge, and any pressure vessel that has
been knowingly tampered with or arranged so as to explode.
   FIREARM.
      (1)   Any deadly weapon capable of expelling or propelling one or more
projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible propellant. The term
includes an unloaded firearm, and any firearm that is inoperable but that can
readily be rendered operable.
      (2)   When determining whether a firearm is capable of expelling or
propelling one or more projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible
propellant, the trier of fact may rely upon circumstantial evidence, including
but not limited to the representations and actions of the individual exercising
control over the firearm.
   HANDGUN. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm that has a short stock and is designed to be held and
fired by the use of a single hand;
      (2)   Any combination of parts from which a firearm of a type described
in division (1) of this definition can be assembled.
   INCENDIARY DEVICE. Any firebomb, and any device designed or specially
adapted to cause physical harm to persons or property by means of fire, and
consisting of an incendiary substance or agent and a means to ignite it.
   MISDEMEANOR PUNISHABLE BY IMPRISONMENT FOR A TERM EXCEEDING ONE YEAR. The
phrase does not include any of the following:
      (1)   Any federal or state offense pertaining to antitrust violations,
unfair trade practices, restraints of trade, or other similar offenses relating
to the regulation of business practices;
      (2)   Any misdemeanor offense punishable by a term of imprisonment of two
years or less.
   SAWED-OFF FIREARM. A shotgun with a barrel less than 18 inches long, or a
rifle with a barrel less than 16 inches long, or a shotgun or rifle less than
26 inches long overall. “Sawed-off firearm” does not include any firearm with
an overall length of at least 26 inches that is approved for sale by the
Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives under the “Gun
Control Act of 1968”, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(3), but that is found
by the Bureau not to be regulated under the “National Firearms Act”, 68A Stat.
725 (1934), 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   SEMI-AUTOMATIC FIREARM. Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a
single cartridge and automatically chamber a succeeding cartridge ready to
fire, with a single function of the trigger.
   VALID CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or VALID LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED
HANDGUN. A concealed handgun license that is currently valid, that is not under
a suspension under R.C. § 2923.128(A)(1), under R.C. § 2923.1213, or under a
suspension provision of the state other than this state in which the license
was issued, and that has not been revoked under R.C. § 2923.128(B)(1), under
R.C. § 2923.1213, or under a revocation provision of the state other than this
state in which the license was issued.
   ZIP-GUN. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm of crude and extemporized manufacture.
      (2)   Any device, including without limitation a starter’s pistol, not
designed as a firearm, but that is specially adapted for use as a firearm.
      (3)   Any industrial tool, signaling device, or safety device, not
designed as a firearm, but that as designed is capable of use as such, when
possessed, carried, or used as a firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.11)
§ 137.02 CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly carry or have, concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand, any of the following:
      (1)   A deadly weapon other than a handgun;
      (2)   A handgun other than a dangerous ordnance;
      (3)   A dangerous ordnance.
   (B)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license shall do any
of the following:
      (1)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, before or at the time a law enforcement officer
asks if the person is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to disclose
that the person then is carrying a concealed handgun, provided that it is not a
violation of this division if the person fails to disclose that fact to an
officer during the stop and the person already has notified another officer of
that fact during the same stop;
      (2)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight at any time after any law enforcement officer begins approaching
the person while stopped and before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless
the failure is pursuant to and in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer;
      (3)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose, if the
person is carrying a concealed handgun, and if the person is approached by any
law enforcement officer while stopped, knowingly remove or attempt to remove
the loaded handgun from the holster, pocket, or other place in which the person
is carrying it, knowingly grasp or hold the loaded handgun, or knowingly have
contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with the person’s hands or
fingers at any time after the law enforcement officer begins approaching and
before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the person removes, attempts
to remove, grasps, holds, or has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to
and in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer;
      (4)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any
lawful order of any law enforcement officer given while the person is stopped,
including but not limited to a specific order to the person to keep the
person’s hands in plain sight.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or to a law enforcement officer, who is authorized to carry
concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry handguns and
is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry
handguns, and who is subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C.
§ 109.801, unless the appointing authority of the person has expressly
specified that the exemption provided in this division (C)(1)(b) does not apply
to the person;
         (c)   A person’s transportation or storage of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in a motor vehicle for any
lawful purpose if the firearm is not on the actor’s person;
         (d)   A person’s storage or possession of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in the actor’s own home for any
lawful purpose.
      (2)   Division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any person who
has been issued a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time of the
alleged carrying or possession of a handgun or who, at the time of the alleged
carrying or possession of a handgun, is an active duty member of the armed
forces of the United States and is carrying a valid military identification
card and documentation of successful completion of firearms training that meets
or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), unless
the person knowingly is in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(1) of this
section of carrying or having control of a weapon other than a handgun and
other than a dangerous ordnance, that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by
law from having the weapon, and that any of the following applies:
      (1)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in or was going to or from the
actor’s lawful business or occupation, which business or occupation was of a
character or was necessarily carried on in a manner or at a time or place as to
render the actor particularly susceptible to criminal attack, such as would
justify a prudent person in going armed.
      (2)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in a lawful activity and had
reasonable cause to fear a criminal attack upon the actor, a member of the
actor’s family, or the actor’s home, such as would justify a prudent person in
going armed.
      (3)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for any
lawful purpose and while in the actor’s own home.
   (E)   (1)   No person who is charged with a violation of this section shall
be required to obtain a concealed handgun license as a condition for the
dismissal of the charge.
      (2)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty to, or
has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B)(1) of this section as it
existed prior to June 13, 2022, the person may file an application under R.C. §
2953.35 requesting the expungement of the record of conviction.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of carrying concealed
weapons. Except as otherwise provided in this division or divisions (F)(2), (F)
(6), and (F)(7) of this section, carrying concealed weapons in violation of
division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Except as
otherwise provided in this division or divisions (F)(2), (F)(6), and (F)(7) of
this section, if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance
or of any offense of violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is
either loaded or for which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the
weapon involved is dangerous ordnance, carrying concealed weapons in violation
of division (A) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in divisions (F)(2), (F)(6), and (F)(7)
of this section, if the offense is committed aboard an aircraft, or with
purpose to carry a concealed weapon aboard an aircraft, regardless of the
weapon involved, carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (A) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A person shall not be arrested for a violation of division (A)(2)
of this section solely because the person does not promptly produce a valid
concealed handgun license. If a person is arrested for a violation of division
(A)(2) of this section and is convicted of or pleads guilty to the violation,
the offender shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor if both of
the following apply:
            1.   Within ten days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license, which license was valid at the time of the arrest to
the law enforcement agency that employs the arresting officer.
            2.   At the time of the arrest, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         (b)   The offender shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
$500 if all of the following apply:
            1.   The offender previously had been issued a concealed handgun
license, and that license expired within the two years immediately preceding
the arrest.
            2.   Within 45 days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license to the law enforcement agency that employed the
arresting officer, and the offender waives in writing the offender’s right to a
speedy trial on the charge of the violation that is provided in R.C. § 2945.71.
            3.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
not knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         (c)   If divisions (F)(2)(a) and (F)(2)(b) and (F)(6) of this section
do not apply, the offender shall be punished under division (F)(1) or (F)(7) of
this section.
      (3)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(1) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(2) or (B)
(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In
addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of division (B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2).
      (5)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(3) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (6)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) of
this section is an active duty m ember of the armed forces of the United States
and is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), and if at the time of the
violation the person was not knowingly in a place described in R.C. 2923.126
(B), the officer shall not arrest the person for a violation of that division.
If the person is not able to promptly produce a valid military identification
card and documentation of successful completion of firearms training that meets
or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) and if
the person is not in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B), the officer shall
issue a citation and the offender shall be assessed a civil penalty of not more
than $500. The citation shall be automatically dismissed and the civil penalty
shall not be assessed if both of the following apply:
         (a)   Within ten days after the issuance of the citation, the offender
presents a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), which were both valid at the time of the
issuance of the citation to the law enforcement agency that employs the citing
officer.
         (b)   At the time of the citation, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (7)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) of
this section is knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B)(5) and is
not authorized to carry a handgun or have a handgun concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand under that division, the penalty shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person
produces a valid concealed handgun license within ten days after the arrest and
has not previously been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a minor misdemeanor;
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (A)
(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division
(A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree;
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of
division (A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, or convicted of or pleaded guilty to any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is a
dangerous ordnance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   If a law enforcement officer stops a person to question the person
regarding a possible violation of this section, for a traffic stop, or for any
other law enforcement purpose, if the person surrenders a firearm to the
officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the officer,
and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this section
or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise prohibited by
law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not contraband, the officer
shall return the firearm to the person at the termination of the stop. If a
court orders a law enforcement officer to return a firearm to a person pursuant
to the requirement set forth in this division, R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, “deadly weapon” or “weapon” does not
include any knife, razor, or cutting instrument if the instrument was not used
as a weapon.
(R.C. § 2923.12)
Statutory reference:
   Carrying concealed handguns, licensing through county sheriff, see R.C. §§
2923.124 et seq.
   Concealed carry by a qualifying adult, see R.C. § 2923.111
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122
   Conveyance, possession, or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance
in a courthouse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.123
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
   Possession of firearm in liquor permit premises, felony offense, see R.C. §
2923.121
§ 137.03 USING WEAPONS WHILE INTOXICATED.
   (A)   No person, while under the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse,
shall carry or use any firearm or dangerous ordnance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using weapons while
intoxicated, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.15)
§ 137.04 IMPROPERLY HANDLING FIREARMS IN A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly discharge a firearm while in or on a motor
vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded firearm in a
motor vehicle in such a manner that the firearm is accessible to the operator
or any passenger without leaving the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a firearm in a motor
vehicle, unless the person may lawfully possess that firearm under applicable
law of this state or the United States, the firearm is unloaded, and the
firearm is carried in one of the following ways:
      (1)   In a closed package, box, or case.
      (2)   In a compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (3)   In plain sight and secured in a rack or holder made for the
purpose.
      (4)   If the firearm is at least 24 inches in overall length as measured
from the muzzle to the part of the stock furthest from the muzzle and if the
barrel is at least 18 inches in length, either in plain sight with the action
open or the weapon stripped, or, if the firearm is of a type on which the
action will not stay open or which cannot easily be stripped, in plain sight.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded handgun in a
motor vehicle if, at the time of that transportation or possession, any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them.
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains a concentration of alcohol, a listed controlled substance, or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance prohibited for persons operating a
vehicle, as specified in R.C. § 4511.19(A), regardless of whether the person at
the time of the transportation or possession as described in this division is
the operator of or a passenger in the motor vehicle.
   (E)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license or who is an
active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is carrying a
valid military identification card and documentation of successful completion
of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements described
in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), who is the driver or an occupant of a motor vehicle
that is stopped as a result of a traffic stop or a stop for another law
enforcement purpose or is the driver or an occupant of a commercial motor
vehicle that is stopped by an employee of the motor carrier enforcement unit
for the purposes defined in R.C. § 5503.34, and who is transporting or has a
loaded handgun in the motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle in any manner,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Before or at the time a law enforcement officer asks if the person
is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to disclose that the person
then possesses or has a loaded handgun in the motor vehicle, provided that it
is not a violation of this division if the person fails to disclose that fact
to an officer during the stop and the person already has notified another
officer of that fact during the same stop;
      (2)   Before or at the time an employee of the motor carrier enforcement
unit asks if the person is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to
disclose that the person then possesses or has a loaded handgun in the
commercial motor vehicle, provided that it is not a violation of this division
if the person fails to disclose that fact to an employee of the unit during the
stop and the person already has notified another employee of the unit of that
fact during the same stop;
      (3)   Knowingly fail to remain in the motor vehicle while stopped, or
knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in plain sight at any time after any
law enforcement officer begins approaching the person while stopped and before
the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the failure is pursuant to and in
accordance with directions given by a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Knowingly have contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with
the person’s hands or fingers in the motor vehicle at any time after the law
enforcement officer begins approaching and before the law enforcement officer
leaves, unless the person has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to and
in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer.
      (5)   Knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any lawful order of any
law enforcement officer given while the motor vehicle is stopped, including but
not limited to a specific order to the person to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight.
   (F)   (1)   Divisions (A), (B), (C), and (E) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, when authorized to carry or have
loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles and acting within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry or have loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles, and who is
subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless
the appointing authority of the person has expressly specified that the
exemption provided in this division (F)(1)(b) does not apply to the person.
      (2)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following circumstances apply:
         (a)   The person discharges a firearm from a motor vehicle at a coyote
or groundhog, the discharge is not during the deer gun hunting season as set by
the Chief of the Division of Wildlife of the Department of Natural Resources,
and the discharge at the coyote or groundhog, but for the operation of this
section, is lawful.
         (b)   The motor vehicle from which the person discharges the firearm
is on real property that is located in an unincorporated area of a township and
that is either zoned for agriculture or is used for agriculture.
         (c)   The person owns the real property described in division (F)(2)
(b) of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that
real property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is
the spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real
property.
         (d)   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the
following manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, highway or other public or
private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including but not
limited to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (3)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following apply:
         (a)   The person possesses a valid all-purpose vehicle permit issued
under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of Wildlife.
         (b)   The person discharges a firearm at a wild quadruped or game bird
as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 during the open hunting season for the applicable
wild quadruped or game bird.
         (c)   The person discharges a firearm from a stationary all-purpose
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 from private or publicly owned lands or
from a motor vehicle that is parked on a road that is owned or administered by
the Division of Wildlife.
         (d)   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the
following manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, a highway, or other public or
private property that is used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including but not
limited to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (4)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following circumstances apply:
         (a)   At the time of the alleged violation of either of those
divisions, the person is the operator of or a passenger in a motor vehicle.
         (b)   The motor vehicle is on real property that is located in an
unincorporated area of a township and that is either zoned for agriculture or
is used for agriculture.
         (c)   The person owns the real property described in division (F)(4)
(b) of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that
real property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is
the spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real
property.
         (d)   The person, prior to arriving at the real property described in
division (F)(4)(b) of this section, did not transport or possess a firearm in
the motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (B) or (C) of this section
while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway or other public
or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking.
      (5)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person who
transports or possesses a handgun in a motor vehicle if, at the time of that
transportation or possession, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The person transporting or possessing the handgun has been
issued a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         (b)   The person transporting or possessing the handgun is not
knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (6)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person possesses a valid all-purpose vehicle permit issued
under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of Wildlife.
         (b)   The person is on or in an all-purpose vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 1531.01 or a motor vehicle during the open hunting season for a wild
quadruped or game bird.
         (c)   The person is on or in an all-purpose vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 1531.01 on private or publicly owned lands or on or in a motor vehicle that
is parked on a road that is owned or administered by the Division of Wildlife.
   (G)   (1)   The affirmative defenses authorized in R.C. § 2923.12(D)(1) and
(D)(2) are affirmative defenses to a charge under division (B) or (C) of this
section that involves a firearm other than a handgun.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B) or (C)
of this section of improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle that the
actor transported or had the firearm in the motor vehicle for any lawful
purpose and while the motor vehicle was on the actor’s own property, provided
that this affirmative defense is not available unless the person, immediately
prior to arriving at the actor’s own property, did not transport or possess the
firearm in a motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (B) or (C) of
this section while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway,
or other public or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic.
   (H)   (1)   No person who is charged with a violation of division (B), (C),
or (D) of this section shall be required to obtain a concealed handgun license
as a condition for the dismissal of the charge.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E) of this section as it
existed prior to September 30, 2011, and the conduct that was the basis of the
violation no longer would be a violation of division (E) of this section on or
after September 30, 2011, or if a person is convicted of, was convicted of,
pleads guilty to, or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)(1) or
(E)(2) of this section as it existed prior to June 13, 2022, the person may
file an application under R.C. § 2953.35 requesting the expungement of the
record of conviction.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty to,
or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) of this section as
the division existed prior to September 30, 2011, and if the conduct that was
the basis of the violation no longer would be a violation of division (B) or
(C) of this section on or after September 30, 2011, due to the application of
division (F)(5) of this section as it exists on and after September 30, 2011,
the person may file an application under R.C. § 2953.35 requesting the
expungement of the record of conviction.
   (I)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of improperly handling
firearms in a motor vehicle. A violation of division (A) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division
(C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of
division (D) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law and, if the loaded handgun is concealed on the person's person, it is
also a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of
division (E)(1) or (E)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (E)(4) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (E)(3) or (E)
(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(E)(3) or (E)(5) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In
addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of division (E)(3) or (E)(5) of this section, the offender's concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). A violation of
division (B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (J)   If a law enforcement officer stops a motor vehicle for a traffic stop
or any other purpose, if any person in the motor vehicle surrenders a firearm
to the officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the
officer, and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this
section or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise
prohibited by law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not
contraband, the officer shall return the firearm to the person at the
termination of the stop. If a court orders a law enforcement officer to return
a firearm to a person pursuant to the requirement set forth in this division,
R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (K)   As used in this section:
      AGRICULTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 519.01.
      COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.25(A).
      HIGHWAY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      MOTOR CARRIER ENFORCEMENT UNIT. Means the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit
in the Department of Public Safety, Division of State Highway Patrol, that is
created by R.C. § 5503.34.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
270   Waynesville - General Offenses
      OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.01.
      STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      TENANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
      UNLOADED.
         (a)   With respect to a firearm other than a firearm described in
division (d) of this definition, means that no ammunition is in the firearm in
question, no magazine or speed loader containing ammunition is inserted into
the firearm, and one of the following applies:
            1.   There is no ammunition in a magazine or speed loader that is
in the vehicle in question and that may be used with the firearm in question.
            2.   Any magazine or speed loader that contains ammunition and that
may be used with the firearm in question is stored in a compartment within the
vehicle in question that cannot be accessed without leaving the vehicle or is
stored in a container that provides complete and separate enclosure.
         (b)   For the purposes of division (a)2. of this definition, a
“container that provides complete and separate enclosure” includes, but is not
limited to, any of the following:
            1.   A package, box, or case with multiple compartments, as long as
the loaded magazine or speed loader and the firearm in question either are in
separate compartments within the package, box, or case, or, if they are in the
same compartment, the magazine or speed loader is contained within a separate
enclosure in that compartment that does not contain the firearm and that closes
using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop closing mechanism, or other
fastener that must be opened to access the contents or the firearm is contained
within a separate enclosure of that nature in that compartment that does not
contain the magazine or speed loader;
            2.   A pocket or other enclosure on the person of the person in
question that closes using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop
closing mechanism, or other fastener that must be opened to access the
contents.
         (c)   For the purposes of divisions (a) and (b) of this definition,
ammunition held in stripper-clips or in en-bloc clips is not considered
ammunition that is loaded into a magazine or speed loader.
         (d)   “Unloaded” means, with respect to a firearm employing a
percussion cap, flintlock, or other obsolete ignition system, when the weapon
is uncapped or when the priming charge is removed from the pan.
   (L)   Divisions (a) and (b) of the definition of "unloaded" in division (K)
of this section do not affect the authority of a person who has been issued a
concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question to have one or
more magazines or speed loaders containing ammunition anywhere in a vehicle,
without being transported as described in those divisions, as long as no
ammunition is in a firearm, other than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as
permitted under any other provision of this chapter. A person who has been
issued a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question may
have one or more magazines or speed loaders containing ammunition anywhere in a
vehicle without further restriction, as long as no ammunition is in a firearm,
other than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as permitted under any
provision of this chapter.
(R.C. § 2923.16)
Statutory reference:
   Return of surrendered firearms by law enforcement, see R.C. § 2923.163
§ 137.05 POSSESSING CRIMINAL TOOLS.
   (A)   No person shall possess or have under his or her control any
substance, device, instrument, or article, with purpose to use it criminally.
   (B)   Each of the following constitutes prima facie evidence of criminal
purpose:
      (1)   Possession or control of any dangerous ordnance, or the materials
or parts for making a dangerous ordnance, in the absence of circumstances
indicating the dangerous ordnance, materials or parts are intended for a
legitimate use.
      (2)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument, or
article designed or specially adapted for criminal use.
      (3)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument, or
article commonly used for criminal purposes, under circumstances indicating the
item is intended for criminal use.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing criminal tools.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, possessing criminal tools is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the circumstances indicate that the
substance, device, instrument, or article involved in the offense was intended
for use in the commission of a felony, possessing criminal tools is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.24)
§ 137.06 FAILURE TO SECURE DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (A)   No person, in acquiring, possessing, carrying, or using any dangerous
ordnance, shall negligently fail to take proper precautions:
      (1)   To secure the dangerous ordnance against theft, or against its
acquisition or use by any unauthorized or incompetent person.
      (2)   To insure the safety of persons and property.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to a secure
dangerous ordnance, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.19)
§ 137.07 UNLAWFUL TRANSACTIONS IN WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Recklessly sell, lend, give or furnish any firearm to any person
prohibited by R.C. § 2923.13 or 2923.15, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, from acquiring or using any firearm, or recklessly sell,
lend, give or furnish any dangerous ordnance to any person prohibited by R.C. §
2923.13, 2923.15 or 2923.17, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
from acquiring or using any dangerous ordnance;
      (2)   Possess any firearm or dangerous ordnance with purpose to dispose
of it in violation of division (A)(1) of this section;
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section,
knowingly solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a federally licensed firearms
dealer or private seller to transfer a firearm or ammunition to any person in a
manner prohibited by state or federal law;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section, with
an intent to deceive, knowingly provide materially false information to a
federally licensed firearms dealer or private seller;
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section,
knowingly procure, solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a person to act in
violation of division (A)(3) or (A)(4) of this section;
      (6)   When transferring any dangerous ordnance to another, negligently
fail to require the transferee to exhibit such identification, license, or
permit showing the transferee to be authorized to acquire dangerous ordnance
pursuant to R.C. § 2923.17, or negligently fail to take a complete record of
the transaction and forthwith forward a copy of the record to the sheriff of
the county or Safety Director or Police Chief of the municipality where the
transaction takes place;
      (7)   Knowingly fail to report to law enforcement authorities forthwith
the loss or theft of any firearm or dangerous ordnance in the person’s
possession and under his or her control.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(3), (A)(4), and (A)(5) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who is acting within the scope of the
officer’s duties;
      (2)   A person who is acting in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer described in division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful transactions in
weapons. A violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A
violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (A)(7) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      AMMUNITION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.401.
      FEDERALLY LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5502.63.
      MATERIALLY FALSE INFORMATION. Means information regarding the transfer of
a firearm or ammunition that portrays an illegal transaction as legal or a
legal transaction as illegal.
      PRIVATE SELLER. Means a person who sells, offers for sale, or transfers a
firearm or ammunition and who is not a federally licensed firearms dealer.
(R.C. § 2923.20)
§ 137.08 UNDERAGE PURCHASE OF FIREARM OR HANDGUN.
   (A)   No person under 18 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a firearm.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a handgun; provided, that this division does not apply to the purchase or
attempted purchase of a handgun by a person 18 years of age or older and under
21 years of age if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is a law enforcement officer and has received firearms
training approved by the Ohio Peace Officer Training Council or equivalent
firearms training.
      (2)   The person is an active or reserve member of the armed services of
the United States or the Ohio National Guard, or was honorably discharged from
military service in the active or reserve armed services of the United States
or the Ohio National Guard, and the person has received firearms training from
the armed services or the national guard or equivalent firearms training.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of underage
purchase of a firearm, a delinquent act that would be a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law if it could be committed by an adult. Whoever
violates division (B) of this section is guilty of underage purchase of a
handgun, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.211)
Statutory reference:
   Improperly furnishing firearms to a minor, felony, see R.C. § 2923.21
§ 137.09 POINTING AND DISCHARGING FIREARMS AND OTHER WEAPONS.
   (A)   Discharge of firearms on or near prohibited premises. No person shall
do any of the following:
      (1)   Without permission from the proper officials and subject to
division (B)(1) of this section, discharge a firearm upon or over a cemetery or
within 100 yards of a cemetery;
      (2)   Subject to division (B)(2) of this section, discharge of a firearm
on a lawn, park, pleasure ground, orchard, or other ground appurtenant to a
schoolhouse, church, or inhabited dwelling, the property of another, or a
charitable institution;
      (3)   Discharge a firearm upon or over a public road or highway.
   (B)   Application of division (A).
      (1)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
while on the person’s own land, discharges a firearm.
      (2)   Division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to a person who owns
any type of property described in that division and who, while on the person’s
own enclosure, discharges a firearm.
   (C)   Penalty for violation of division (A). Whoever violates division (A)
of this section is guilty of discharge of a firearm on or near prohibited
premises. A violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of division (A)(3) shall be
punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) of this section, a
violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   If the violation created a substantial risk of physical harm to any
person, caused serious physical harm to property, caused physical harm to any
person, or caused serious physical harm to any person, a violation of division
(A)(3) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.162)
   (D)   Hunting near township park.
      (1)   No person shall hunt, shoot, or kill game within one-half mile of a
township park unless the Board of Township Park Commissioners has granted
permission to kill game not desired within the limits prohibited by this
division.
(R.C. § 3773.06)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 3773.99(A))
   (E)   Unlawful discharge. No person shall discharge any BB gun, air gun, or
firearm, or make use of any sling, bow and arrow, or crossbow, within the
corporate limits of the municipality.
   (F)   Unlawful pointing or aiming. No person shall, intentionally and
without malice, point or aim any BB gun, air gun, or firearm, or any sling, bow
and arrow, or crossbow at or toward another.
   (G)   Penalty for violations of division (E) or (F). Whoever violates
division (E) or (F) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
   (H)   Exceptions. This section shall not prohibit the firing of a military
salute or the firing of weapons by persons of the nation’
(Rev. 2003)
Statutory reference:
   Improperly discharging firearm at or into habitation or school safety zone,
felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.161
§ 137.10 LICENSE OR PERMIT TO POSSESS DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (A)   Upon application to the sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has the
applicant’s principal place of business, and upon payment of the fee specified
in division (B) of this section, a license or temporary permit shall be issued
to qualified applicants to acquire, possess, carry or use a dangerous ordnance
for the following purposes:
      (1)   Contractors, wreckers, quarriers, mine operators and other persons
regularly employing explosives in the course of a legitimate business, with
respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired, possessed, carried or
used in the course of such business.
      (2)   Farmers, with respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired,
possessed, carried or used for agricultural purposes on lands farmed by them.
      (3)   Scientists, engineers, and instructors, with respect to a dangerous
ordnance acquired, possessed, carried or used in the course of bona fide
research or instruction.
      (4)   Financial institutions and armored car company guards, with respect
to automatic firearms lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or used by any such
person while acting within the scope of the person's duties.
      (5)   In the discretion of the issuing authority, any responsible person,
with respect to a dangerous ordnance lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or
used for a legitimate research, scientific, educational, industrial or other
proper purpose.
   (B)   Application for a license or temporary permit under this section shall
be in writing under oath to the sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has the
applicant's principal place of business. The application shall be accompanied
by an application fee of $50 when the application is for a license, and an
application fee of $5 when the application is for a temporary permit. The fees
shall be paid into the General Revenue Fund of the county or municipality. The
application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, age, address, occupation and business address of the
applicant, if the applicant is a natural person, or the name, address, and
principal place of business of the applicant if the applicant is a corporation.
      (2)   A description of the dangerous ordnance for which a permit is
requested.
      (3)   A description of the places where and the manner in which the
dangerous ordnance is to be kept, carried, and used.
      (4)   A statement of the purposes for which the dangerous ordnance is to
be acquired, possessed, carried or used.
      (5)   Such other information as the issuing authority may require in
giving effect to this section.
   (C)   Upon investigation, the issuing authority shall issue a license or
temporary permit only if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The applicant is not otherwise prohibited by law from acquiring,
having, carrying or using a dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   The applicant is 21 years of age or over, if the applicant is a
natural person.
      (3)   It appears that the applicant has sufficient competence to safely
acquire, possess, carry or use the dangerous ordnance, and that proper
precautions will be taken to protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and
ensure the safety of persons and property.
      (4)   It appears that the dangerous ordnance will be lawfully acquired,
possessed, carried and used by the applicant for a legitimate purpose.
   (D)   The license or temporary permit shall identify the person to whom it
is issued, identify the dangerous ordnance involved and state the purposes for
which the license or temporary permit is issued, state the expiration date, if
any, and list such restrictions on the acquisition, possession, carriage, or
use of the dangerous ordnance as the issuing authority considers advisable to
protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and ensure the safety of persons
and property.
   (E)   A temporary permit shall be issued for the casual use of explosives
and explosive devices, and other consumable dangerous ordnance, and shall
expire within 30 days of its issuance. A license shall be issued for the
regular use of consumable dangerous ordnance, or for any non-consumable
dangerous ordnance, which license need not specify an expiration date, but the
issuing authority may specify such expiration date, not earlier than one year
from the date of issuance, as it considers advisable in view of the nature of
the dangerous ordnance and the purposes for which the license is issued.
   (F)   The dangerous ordnance specified in a license or temporary permit may
be obtained by the holder anywhere in the state. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.18(F),
the holder of a license may use such dangerous ordnance anywhere in the state.
The holder of a temporary permit may use such dangerous ordnance only within
the territorial jurisdiction of the issuing authority.
   (G)   The issuing authority shall forward to the State Fire Marshal a copy
of each license or temporary permit issued pursuant to this section, and a copy
of each record of a transaction in a dangerous ordnance and of each report of a
lost or stolen dangerous ordnance, given to the local law enforcement authority
as required by R.C. § 2923.20(A)(6) and (A)(7) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. The State Fire Marshal will keep a permanent file of all
licenses and temporary permits issued pursuant to this section, and of all
records of transactions in, and losses or thefts of a dangerous ordnance
forwarded by local law enforcement authorities pursuant to this section.
(R.C. § 2923.18)
§ 137.11 POSSESSION OF AN OBJECT INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM A FIREARM IN A SCHOOL
SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly possess an object in a school safety zone if
both of the following apply:
      (1)   The object is indistinguishable from a firearm, whether or not the
object is capable of being fired.
      (2)   The person indicates that the person possesses the object and that
it is a firearm, or the person knowingly displays or brandishes the object and
indicates that it is a firearm.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States who is authorized to carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance
and is acting within the scope of the officer's, agent's, or employee's duties;
         (b)   A law enforcement officer who is authorized to carry deadly
weapons or dangerous ordnance;
         (c)   A security officer employed by a board of education or governing
body of a school during the time that the security officer is on duty pursuant
to that contract of employment;
         (d)   1.   Any person not described in divisions (B)(1)(a) to (B)(1)
(c) of this section who has written authorization from the board of education
or governing body of a school to convey deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance
into a school safety zone or to possess a deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance
in a school safety zone and who conveys or possesses the deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance in accordance with that authorization, provided both of the
following apply:
               a.   Either the person has successfully completed the
curriculum, instruction, and training established under R.C. § 5502.703, or the
person has received a certificate of having satisfactorily completed an
approved basic peace officer training program or is a law enforcement officer;
               b.   The board or governing body has notified the public, by
whatever means the affected school regularly communicates with the public, that
the board or governing body has authorized one or more persons to go armed
within a school operated by the board or governing authority.
            2.   A district board or school governing body that authorizes a
person under division (B)(1)(d) of this section shall require that person to
submit to an annual criminal records check conducted in the same manner as R.C.
§ 3319.39 or R.C. § 3319.391.
         (e)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance, and who is subject to and in
compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless the appointing
authority of the person has expressly specified that the exemption provided in
division (B)(1)(e) of this section does not apply to the person.
      (2)   This section does not apply to premises upon which home schooling
is conducted. This section also does not apply to a school administrator,
teacher or employee who possesses an object that is indistinguishable from a
firearm for legitimate school purposes during the course of employment, a
student who uses an object that is indistinguishable from a firearm under the
direction of a school administrator, teacher or employee, or any other person
who, with the express prior approval of a school administrator, possesses an
object that is indistinguishable from a firearm for a legitimate purpose,
including the use of the object in a ceremonial activity, a play, re-enactment
or other dramatic presentation, school safety training, or a ROTC activity or
another similar use of the object.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if, at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession of the
handgun, all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person does not enter into a school building or onto school
premises and is not at a school activity.
         (b)   The person has been issued a concealed handgun license that is
valid at the time of the conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         (c)   The person is in the school safety zone in accordance with 18
U.S.C. § 922(q)(2)(B).
         (d)   The person is not knowingly in a place described in R.C. §
2923.126(B)(1) or (B)(3) through (B)(8).
      (4)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession of the handgun
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person has been issued a concealed handgun license that is
valid at the time of the conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         (b)   The person leaves the handgun in a motor vehicle.
         (c)   The handgun does not leave the motor vehicle.
         (d)   If the person exits the motor vehicle, the person locks the
motor vehicle.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal possession of an
object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, illegal possession of an object
indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of this section, illegal possession of an object indistinguishable from a
firearm in a school safety zone is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to any other penalty imposed upon a person who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section, and subject to
division (D)(2) of this section, if the offender has not attained 19 years of
age, regardless of whether the offender is attending or is enrolled in a school
operated by a board of education or for which the Director of Education and
Workforce prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07, the court shall
impose upon the offender a class four suspension of the offender's probationary
driver's license, restricted license, driver's license, commercial driver's
license, temporary instruction permit, or probationary commercial driver's
license that then is in effect from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4)
and shall deny the offender the issuance of any permit or license of that type
during the period of the suspension. If the offender is not a resident of this
state, the court shall impose a class four suspension of the nonresident
operating privilege of the offender from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(4).
      (2)   If the offender shows good cause why the court should not suspend
one of the types of licenses, permits or privileges specified in division (D)
(1) of this section or deny the issuance of one of the temporary instruction
permits specified in division (D)(1) of this section, the court in its
discretion may choose not to impose the suspension, revocation or denial
required in division (D)(1) of this section, but the court, in its discretion,
instead may require the offender to perform community service for a number of
hours determined by the court.
   (E)   As used in this section, OBJECT THAT IS INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM A
FIREARM means an object made, constructed or altered so that, to a reasonable
person without specialized training in firearms, the object appears to be a
firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.122(C) - (G))
Statutory reference:
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance in a school
safety zone,
    felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122(A) and (B)
§ 137.12 POSSESSION OF DEADLY WEAPON WHILE UNDER DETENTION.
   (A)   As used in this section, DETENTION and DETENTION FACILITY have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 2921.01.
   (B)   No person under detention at a detention facility shall possess a
deadly weapon.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possession of a deadly
weapon while under detention.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) of this section,
possession of a deadly weapon while under detention is a felony to be
prosecuted under state law.
      (2)   If the offender, at the time of the commission of the offense, was
under detention as an alleged or adjudicated delinquent child or unruly child
and if at the time the offender commits the act for which the offender was
under detention it would not be a felony if committed by an adult, possession
of a deadly weapon while under detention is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.131)
Statutory reference:
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offenses, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
§ 137.13 CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSES: POSSESSION OF A REVOKED OR SUSPENDED
LICENSE; ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS; POSTING OF SIGNS PROHIBITING POSSESSION.
   (A)   Possession of a revoked or suspended concealed handgun license.
      (1)   No person, except in the performance of official duties, shall
possess a concealed handgun license that was issued and that has been revoked
or suspended.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of possessing a
revoked or suspended concealed handgun license, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 2923.1211(B), (C))
   (B)   Additional restrictions. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.126:
      (1)   A concealed handgun license that is issued under R.C. § 2923.125
shall expire five years after the date of issuance. A licensee who has been
issued a license under that section shall be granted a grace period of 30 days
after the licensee's license expires during which the licensee's license
remains valid. Except as provided in divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) of this
section, a licensee who has been issued a concealed handgun license under R.C.
§ 2923.125 or 2923.1213 may carry a concealed handgun anywhere in this state if
the license is valid when the licensee is in actual possession of a concealed
handgun. The licensee shall give notice of any change in the licensee's
residence address to the sheriff who issued the license within 45 days after
that change.
      (2)   A valid concealed handgun license does not authorize the licensee
to carry a concealed handgun in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.12(B)
or in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.16. A valid license does not
authorize the licensee to carry a concealed handgun into any of the following
places:
         (a)   A police station, sheriff’s office, or state highway patrol
station, premises controlled by the bureau of criminal identification and
investigation; a state correctional institution, jail, workhouse, or other
detention facility; any area of an airport passenger terminal that is beyond a
passenger or property screening checkpoint or to which access is restricted
through security measures by the airport authority or a public agency; or an
institution that is maintained, operated, managed, and governed pursuant to
R.C. §§ 5119.14(A) or 5123.03(A)(1);
         (b)   A school safety zone if the licensee’s carrying the concealed
handgun is in violation of R.C. § 2923.122;
         (c)   A courthouse or another building or structure in which a
courtroom is located if the licensee’s carrying the concealed handgun is in
violation of R.C. § 2923.123;
         (d)   Any premises or open air arena for which a D permit has been
issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 if the licensee’s carrying the concealed handgun
is in violation of R.C. § 2923.121;
         (e)   Any premises owned or leased by any public or private college,
university, or other institution of higher education, unless the handgun is in
a locked motor vehicle or the licensee is in the immediate process of placing
the handgun in a locked motor vehicle or unless the licensee is carrying the
concealed handgun pursuant to a written policy, rule, or other authorization
that is adopted by the institution’s board of trustees or other governing body
and that authorizes specific individuals or classes of individuals to carry a
concealed handgun on the premises;
         (f)   Any church, synagogue, mosque, or other place of worship, unless
the church, synagogue, mosque, or other place of worship posts or permits
otherwise;
         (g)   Any building that is a government facility of this state or a
political subdivision of this state and that is not a building that is used
primarily as a shelter, restroom, parking facility for motor vehicles, or rest
facility and is not a courthouse or other building or structure in which a
courtroom is located that is subject to division (B)(2)(c) of this section,
unless the governing body with authority over the building has enacted a
statute, ordinance, or policy that permits a licensee to carry a concealed
handgun into the building;
         (h)   A place in which federal law prohibits the carrying of handguns.
      (3)   (a)   Nothing in this division (B) shall negate or restrict a rule,
policy, or practice of a private employer that is not a private college,
university, or other institution of higher education concerning or prohibiting
the presence of firearms on the private employer’s premises or property,
including motor vehicles owned by the private employer. Nothing in this
division (B) shall require a private employer of that nature to adopt a rule,
policy, or practice concerning or prohibiting the presence of firearms on the
private employer’s premises or property, including motor vehicles owned by the
private employer.
         (b)   1.   A private employer shall be immune from liability in a
civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the
premises or property of the private employer, including motor vehicles owned by
the private employer, unless the private employer acted with malicious purpose.
A private employer is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to
the private employer’s decision to permit a licensee to bring, or prohibit a
licensee from bringing, a handgun onto the premises or property of the private
employer.
            2.   A political subdivision shall be immune from liability in a
civil action, to the extent and in the manner provided in R.C. Chapter 2744,
for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused
by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto any premises or property
owned, leased, or otherwise under the control of the political subdivision. As
used in this division, POLITICAL SUBDIVISION has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2744.01.
            3.    An institution of higher education shall be immune from
liability in a civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or
property that allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a
handgun onto the premises of the institution, including motor vehicles owned by
the institution, unless the institution acted with malicious purpose. An
institution of higher education is immune from liability in a civil action for
any injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by
or related to the institution’s decision to permit a licensee or class of
licensees to bring a handgun onto the premises of the institution.
            4.   A nonprofit corporation shall be immune from liability in a
civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the
premises of the nonprofit corporation, including any motor vehicle owned by the
nonprofit corporation, or to any event organized by the nonprofit corporation,
unless the nonprofit corporation acted with malicious purpose. A nonprofit
corporation is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury, death,
or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to the
nonprofit corporation’s decision to permit a licensee to bring a handgun onto
the premises of the nonprofit corporation or to any event organized by the
nonprofit corporation.
         (c)   1.   a.   Except as provided in division (B)(3)(c)2. of this
section and R.C. § 2923.1214, the owner or person in control of private land or
premises, and a private person or entity leasing land or premises owned by the
state, the United States, or a political subdivision of the state or the United
States, may post a sign in a conspicuous location on that land or on those
premises prohibiting persons from carrying firearms or concealed firearms on or
onto that land or those premises. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, a person who knowingly violates a posted prohibition of that nature
is guilty of criminal trespass in violation of R.C. § 2911.21(A)(4) and is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If a person knowingly violates a
posted prohibition of that nature and the posted land or premises primarily was
a parking lot or other parking facility, the person is not guilty of criminal
trespass under R.C. § 2911.21 or under any other criminal law of this state or
criminal law, ordinance, or resolution of a political subdivision of this
state, and instead is subject only to a civil cause of action for trespass
based on the violation.
               b.   If a person knowingly violates a posted prohibition of the
nature described in this division and the posted land or premises is a child
care center, type A family child care home, or type B family child care home,
unless the person is a licensee who resides in a type A family child care home
or type B family child care home, the person is guilty of aggravated trespass
in violation of R.C. § 2911.211. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the person
previously has been convicted of a violation of this division or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is
dangerous ordnance, the offender is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
            2.   A landlord may not prohibit or restrict a tenant who is a
licensee and who on or after September 9, 2008 enters into a rental agreement
with the landlord for the use of residential premises, and the tenant’s guest
while the tenant is present, from lawfully carrying or possessing a handgun on
those residential premises.
            3.   As used in division (B)(3)(c) of this section:
               LANDLORD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
               RENTAL AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
               RESIDENTIAL PREMISES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01,
except the term does not include a dwelling unit that is owned or operated by a
college or university.
               TENANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
      (4)   A person who holds a valid concealed handgun license issued by
another state that is recognized by the Attorney General pursuant to a
reciprocity agreement entered into pursuant to R.C. § 109.69 or a person who
holds a valid concealed handgun license under the circumstances described in
R.C. § 109.69(B) has the same right to carry a concealed handgun in this state
as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license under R.C. § 2923.125
and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a person who has been
issued a license under that section that is valid at the time in question.
      (5)   (a)   A peace officer has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125, provided that the officer when carrying a concealed
handgun under authority of this division is carrying validating identification.
For purposes of reciprocity with other states, a peace officer shall be
considered to be a licensee in this state.
         (b)   An active duty member of the armed forces of the United States
who is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions as
specified in this division (B).
         (c)   A tactical medical professional who is qualified to carry
firearms while on duty under R.C. § 109.771 has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125.
      (6)   (a)   A qualified retired peace officer who possesses a retired
peace officer identification card issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this
section and a valid firearms requalification certification issued pursuant to
division (B)(6)(c) of this section has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a
person who has been issued a license issued under that section that is valid at
the time in question. For purposes of reciprocity with other states, a
qualified retired peace officer who possesses a retired peace officer
identification card issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this section and a
valid firearms requalification certification issued pursuant to division (B)(6)
(c) of this section shall be considered to be a licensee in this state.
         (b)   1.   Each public agency of this state or of a political
subdivision of this state that is served by one or more peace officers shall
issue a retired peace officer identification card to any person who retired
from service as a peace officer with that agency, if the issuance is in
accordance with the agency’s policies and procedures and if the person, with
respect to the person’s service with that agency, satisfies all of the
following:
               a.   The person retired in good standing from service as a peace
officer with the public agency, and the retirement was not for reasons of
mental instability.
               b.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was authorized to engage in or supervise the prevention,
detection, investigation, or prosecution of, or the incarceration of any person
for, any violation of law and the person had statutory powers of arrest.
               c.   At the time of the person’s retirement as a peace officer
with that agency, the person was trained and qualified to carry firearms in the
performance of the peace officer’s duties.
               d.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was regularly employed as a peace officer for an aggregate
of 15 years or more, or, in the alternative, the person retired from service as
a peace officer with that agency, after completing any applicable probationary
period of that service, due to a service-connected disability, as determined by
the agency.
            2.   A retired peace officer identification card issued to a person
under division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section shall identify the person by name,
contain a photograph of the person, identify the public agency of this state or
of the political subdivision of this state from which the person retired as a
peace officer and that is issuing the identification card, and specify that the
person retired in good standing from service as a peace officer with the
issuing public agency and satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)
(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(B)1.d. of this section. In addition to the required content
specified in this division, a retired peace officer identification card issued
to a person under division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section may include the firearms
requalification certification described in division (B)(6)(c) of this section,
and if the identification card includes that certification, the identification
card shall serve as the firearms requalification certification for the retired
peace officer. If the issuing public agency issues credentials to active law
enforcement officers who serve the agency, the agency may comply with division
(B)(6)(b)1. of this section by issuing the same credentials to persons who
retired from service as a peace officer with the agency and who satisfy the
criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section,
provided that the credentials so issued to retired peace officers are stamped
with the word “RETIRED”.
            3.   A public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of
this state may charge persons who retired from service as a peace officer with
the agency a reasonable fee for issuing to the person a retired peace officer
identification card pursuant to division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section.
         (c)   1.   If a person retired from service as a peace officer with a
public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of this state and the
person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)
(b)1.d. of this section, the public agency may provide the retired peace
officer with the opportunity to attend a firearms requalification program that
is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required under R.C. §
109.801. The retired peace officer may be required to pay the cost of the
course.
            2.   If a retired peace officer who satisfies the criteria set
forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section attends a
firearms requalification program that is approved for purposes of firearms
requalification required under R.C. § 109.801, the retired peace officer’s
successful completion of the firearms requalification program requalifies the
retired peace officer for purposes of division (B)(6) of this section for five
years from the date on which the program was successfully completed, and the
requalification is valid during that five-year period. If a retired peace
officer who satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)
(6)(b)1.d. of this section satisfactorily completes such a firearms
requalification program, the retired peace officer shall be issued a firearms
requalification certification that identifies the retired peace officer by
name, identifies the entity that taught the program, specifies that the retired
peace officer successfully completed the program, specifies the date on which
the course was successfully completed, and specifies that the requalification
is valid for five years from that date of successful completion. The firearms
requalification certification for a retired peace officer may be included in
the retired peace officer identification card issued to the retired peace
officer under division (B)(6)(b) of this section.
            3.   A retired peace officer who attends a firearms requalification
program that is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required
under R.C. § 109.801 may be required to pay the cost of the program.
      (7)   As used in division (B) of this section:
         GOVERNING BODY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 154.01.
         GOVERNMENT FACILITY OF THIS STATE OR A POLITICAL SUBDIVISION OF THIS
STATE. Means any of the following:
            1.   A building or part of a building that is owned or leased by
the government of this state or a political subdivision of this state and where
employees of the government of this state or the political subdivision
regularly are present for the purpose of performing their official duties as
employees of the state or political subdivision;
            2.   The office of a deputy registrar serving pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 4503 that is used to perform deputy registrar functions.
         NONPROFIT CORPORATION. Means any private organization that is exempt
from federal income taxation pursuant to subsection 501(a) and described in
subsection 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         QUALIFIED RETIRED PEACE OFFICER. Means a person who satisfies all of
the following:
            1.   The person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)
(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section.
            2.   The person is not under the influence of alcohol or another
intoxicating or hallucinatory drug or substance.
            3.   The person is not prohibited by federal law from receiving
firearms.
         RETIRED PEACE OFFICER IDENTIFICATION CARD. Means an identification
card that is issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this section to a person
who is a retired peace officer.
         TACTICAL MEDICAL PROFESSIONAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
109.71.
         VALIDATING IDENTIFICATION. Means photographic identification issued by
the agency for which an individual serves as a peace officer that identifies
the individual as a peace officer of the agency.
(R.C. § 2923.126)
   (C)   Posting of signs prohibiting possession. Each person, board, or entity
that owns or controls any place or premises identified in R.C. § 2923.126(B) as
a place into which a valid license does not authorize the licensee to carry a
concealed handgun, or a designee of such a person, board, or entity, shall post
in the following one or more conspicuous locations in the premises a sign that
contains a statement in substantially the following form: “Unless otherwise
authorized by law, pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code, no person shall knowingly
possess, have under the person’s control, convey, or attempt to convey a deadly
weapon or dangerous ordnance onto these premises.”
(R.C. § 2923.1212)
§ 137.14 DEFACED FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Change, alter, remove, or obliterate the name of the manufacturer,
model, manufacturer’s serial number, or other mark of identification on a
firearm.
      (2)   Possess a firearm knowing or having reasonable cause to believe
that the name of the manufacturer, model, manufacturer’s serial number, or
other mark of identification on the firearm has been changed, altered, removed,
or obliterated.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of
defacing identification marks of a firearm. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, defacing identification marks of a firearm is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A)(1) of this section, defacing
identification marks of a firearm is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of
possessing a defaced firearm. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
possessing a defaced firearm is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (A)(2) of this section, possessing a defaced firearm is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any firearm on which no
manufacturer’s serial number was inscribed at the time of its manufacture.
(R.C. § 2923.201)
CHAPTER 138: DRUG OFFENSES
Section
   
138.01   Definitions
   
138.02   Trafficking in controlled substances; gift of marihuana
   
138.03   Drug possession offenses
   
138.04   Possessing drug abuse instruments
   
138.05   Permitting drug abuse
   
138.06   Illegal cultivation of marihuana
   
138.07   Abusing harmful intoxicants
   
138.08   Illegal dispensing of drug samples
   
138.09   Federal prosecution bar to municipal prosecution
   
138.10   Nitrous oxide: improper dispensing or distribution; possession in a
motor vehicle
   
138.11   Laboratory report required
   
138.12   Counterfeit controlled substances
   
138.13   Use, possession, or sale of drug paraphernalia
   
138.14   Controlled substance or prescription labels
   
138.15   Possession, sale and disposal of hypodermics
   
138.16   Controlled substance schedules
   
138.17   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates
   
138.18   Pseudoephedrine sales
   
138.19   Sale of pure caffeine product
   
138.20   Sale of dextromethorphan
   
138.21   Adult use cannabis control; limitations on conduct by individuals
Statutory reference:
   Administration of epinephrine, exemption from prosecution, see R.C. §
2925.64
   Controlled substances, regulation of pharmacists and other professionals,
see R.C. Chapters 3719 and 4729
   Conviction of professionally licensed persons to be reported to licensing
board, see R.C. § 2925.38
   Criminal and civil forfeiture of property for felony drug abuse offenses,
see R.C. Chapter 2981
   Destruction of chemicals used to produce methamphetamine; preservation of
samples, see R.C. § 2925.52
   Driver’s license suspension after certain drug convictions, see R.C. §
4510.07
§ 138.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words,
terms and phrases and their derivatives used in this chapter which are not
defined in this section shall have the meanings given to them in the Ohio
Revised Code.
   ADMINISTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   ADULTERATE. To cause a drug to be adulterated as described in R.C. §
3715.63.
   ALCOHOL AND DRUG ADDICTION SERVICES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5119.01.
   BULK AMOUNT. Of a controlled substance means any of the following:
      (1)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in
Schedule I, Schedule II, or Schedule III, with the exception of any controlled
substance analog, marihuana, cocaine, L.S.D., heroin, any fentanyl-related
compound, and hashish and except as provided in division (2), (5), or (6) of
this definition, whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams or 25 unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule I opiate or opium derivative;
         (b)   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams of a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of raw or gum
opium;
         (c)   An amount equal to or exceeding 30 grams or ten unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule I hallucinogen other than tetrahydrocannabinol or lysergic acid
amide, or a Schedule I stimulant or depressant;
         (d)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II opiate or opium
derivative;
         (e)   An amount equal to or exceeding five grams or ten unit doses of
a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount
of phencyclidine;
         (f)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II stimulant that is in
a final dosage form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal
drug abuse control laws, as defined in this section, that is or contains any
amount of a Schedule II depressant substance or a Schedule II hallucinogenic
substance;
         (g)   An amount equal to or exceeding three grams of a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule
II stimulant, or any of its salts or isomers, that is not in a final dosage
form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal drug abuse
control laws;
      (2)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III or IV substance other than an anabolic
steroid or a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (3)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (4)   An amount equal to or exceeding 250 milliliters or 250 grams of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule V substance;
      (5)   An amount equal to or exceeding 200 solid dosage units, 16 grams,
or 16 milliliters of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III anabolic steroid;
      (6)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is a
combination of a fentanyl-related compound and any other compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
if the defendant is charged with a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 and the
sentencing provisions set forth in R.C. § 2925.11(C)(10)(b) and (C)(11) will
not apply regarding the defendant and the violation, the bulk amount of the
controlled substance for purposes of the violation is the amount specified in
division (1), (2), (3), (4), or (5) of this definition for the other Schedule
III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is combined with the
fentanyl-related compound.
   CERTIFIED GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE. A duly constituted and organized committee of
the Ohio State Bar Association or of one or more local bar associations of the
state that complies with the criteria set forth in Rule V, Section 6 of the
Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   COCAINE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A cocaine salt, isomer, or derivative, a salt of a cocaine isomer
or derivative, or the base form of cocaine.
      (2)   Coca leaves or a salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of coca
leaves, including ecgonine, a salt, isomer, or derivative of ecgonine, or a
salt of an isomer or derivative of ecgonine.
      (3)   A salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of a substance
identified in division (1) or (2) of this definition that is chemically
equivalent to or identical with any of those substances, except that the
substances shall not include decocainized coca leaves or extraction of coca
leaves if the extractions do not contain cocaine or ecgonine.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A JUVENILE. An offense is “committed in the
vicinity of a juvenile” if the offender commits the offense within 100 feet of
a juvenile or within the view of a  juvenile, regardless of whether the
offender knows the age of the juvenile, whether the offender knows the offense
is being committed within 100 feet of or within view of the juvenile, or
whether the juvenile actually views the commission of the offense.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. An offense is “committed in the
vicinity of a school” if the offender commits the offense on school premises,
in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the boundaries of any school
premises, regardless of whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed on school premises, in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the
boundaries of any school premises.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SUBSTANCE ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER OR A
RECOVERING ADDICT. An offense is "committed in the vicinity of a substance
addiction services provider or a recovering addict" if either of the following
apply:
      (1)   The offender commits the offense on the premises of a substance
addiction services provider's facility, including a facility licensed prior to
June 29, 2019, under R.C. § 5119.391 to provide methadone treatment or an
opioid treatment program licensed on or after that date under R.C. § 5119.37,
or within 500 feet of the premises of a substance addiction services provider's
facility and the offender knows or should know that the offense is being
committed within the vicinity of the substance addiction services provider's
facility.
      (2)   The offender sells, offers to sell, delivers, or distributes the
controlled substance or controlled substance analog to a person who is
receiving treatment at the time of the commission of the offense, or received
treatment within 30 days prior to the commission of the offense, from a
substance addiction services provider and the offender knows that the person is
receiving or received that treatment.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE ANALOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any drug that bears, or whose container or label bears, a
trademark, trade name, or other identifying mark used without authorization of
the owner of rights to the trademark, trade name, or identifying mark.
      (2)   Any unmarked or unlabeled substance that is represented to be a
controlled substance manufactured, processed, packed, or distributed by a
person other than the person that manufactured, processed, packed, or
distributed it.
      (3)   Any substance that is represented to be a controlled substance but
is not a controlled substance or is a different controlled substance.
      (4)   Any substance other than a controlled substance that a reasonable
person would believe to be a controlled substance because of its similarity in
shape, size, and color, or its markings, labeling, packaging, distribution, or
the price for which it is sold or offered for sale.
   CULTIVATE. Includes planting, watering, fertilizing or tilling.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DECEPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   DISCIPLINARY COUNSEL. The disciplinary counsel appointed by the Board of
Commissioners on Grievances and Discipline of the Ohio Supreme Court under the
Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   DISPENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DISTRIBUTE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2913.02(A) that constitutes theft of drugs,
or any violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, 2925.04, 2925.041, 2925.05,
2925.06, 2925.11, 2925.12, 2925.13, 2925.22, 2925.23, 2925.24, 2925.31,
2925.32, 2925.36, or 2925.37.
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state or of the United States, that is substantially equivalent to
any section listed in division (1) of this definition.
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state, or of the United States, of which planting, cultivating,
harvesting, processing, making, manufacturing, producing, shipping,
transporting, delivering, acquiring, possessing, storing, distributing,
dispensing, selling, inducing another to use, administering to another, using,
or otherwise dealing with a controlled substance is an element.
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing or attempting to commit, any offense under division (1), (2), or (3)
of this definition.
   DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   FELONY DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any drug abuse offense that would constitute a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States.
   FENTANYL-RELATED COMPOUND. Any of the following:
      (1)   Fentanyl;
      (2)   Alpha-methylfentanyl (N-[1-(alpha-methyl-beta-phenyl)ethyl-4-
piperidyl] propionanilide; 1-(1-methyl-2-phenylethyl)-4-(N-propanilido)
piperidine);
      (3)   Alpha-methylthiofentanyl (N-[1-methyl-2-(2-thienyl)ethyl-4-
piperidinyl]-N- phenylpropanamide);
      (4)   Beta-hydroxyfentanyl (N-[1-(2-hydroxy-2-phenethyl-4-piperidinyl]-N-
phenylpropanamide);
      (5)   Beta-hydroxy-3-methylfentanyl (other name: N-[1-(2-hydroxy-2-
phenethyl)-3- methyl-4-piperidinyl]-N-phenylpropanamide);
      (6)   3-methylfentanyl (N-[3-methyl-1-(2-phenylethyl)-4-piperidyl]-N-
phenylpropanamide);
      (7)   3-methylthiofentanyl (N-[3-methyl-1-[2-(thienyl)ethyl]-4-
piperidinyl]-– phenylpropanamide);
      (8)   Para-fluorofentanyl (N-(4-fluorophenyl)-N-[1-(2-phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]propanamide;
      (9)   Thiofentanyl (N-phenyl-N-[1-(2-thienyl)ethyl-4-piperidinyl]-
propanamide;
      (10)   Alfentanil;
      (11)   Carfentanil;
      (12)   Remifentanil;
      (13)   Sufentanil;
      (14)   Acetyl-alpha-methylfentanyl (N-[1-(1-methyl-2-phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]-N- phenylacetamide); and
      (15)   Any compound that meets all of the following fentanyl
pharmacophore requirements to bind at the mu receptor, as identified by a
report from an established forensic laboratory, including acetylfentanyl,
furanylfentanyl, valerylfentanyl, butyrylfentanyl, isobutyrylfentanyl, 4-
methoxybutyrylfentanyl, para-fluorobutyrylfentanyl, acrylfentanyl, and ortho-
fluorofentanyl:
         (a)   A chemical scaffold consisting of both of the following:
            1.   A five, six, or seven member ring structure containing a
nitrogen, whether or not further substituted;
            2.   An attached nitrogen to the ring, whether or not that nitrogen
is enclosed in a ring structure, including an attached aromatic ring or other
lipophilic group to that nitrogen.
         (b)   A polar functional group attached to the chemical scaffold,
including but not limited to a hydroxyl, ketone, amide, or ester;
         (c)   An alkyl or aryl substitution off the ring nitrogen of the
chemical scaffold; and
         (d)   The compound has not been approved for medical use by the United
States food and drug administration.
   HARMFUL INTOXICANT. Does not include beer or intoxicating liquor, but means
any of the following:
      (1)   Any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance the gas, fumes, or
vapor of which when inhaled can induce intoxication, excitement, giddiness,
irrational behavior, depression, stupefaction, paralysis, unconsciousness,
asphyxiation, or other harmful physiological effects, and includes but is not
limited to any of the following:
         (a)   Any volatile organic solvent, plastic cement, model cement,
fingernail polish remover, lacquer thinner, cleaning fluid, gasoline, or other
preparation containing a volatile organic solvent.
         (b)   Any aerosol propellant.
         (c)   Any fluorocarbon refrigerant.
         (d)   Any anesthetic gas.
      (2)   Gamma Butyrolactone;
      (3)   1,4 Butanediol.
   HASHISH.
      (1)   A resin or a preparation of a resin to which both of the following
apply:
         (a)   It is contained in or derived from any part of the plant of the
genus cannabis, whether in solid form or in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form.
         (b)   It has a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of more than
0.3%.
      (2)   The term does not include a hemp byproduct in the possession of a
licensed hemp processor under R.C. Chapter 928, provided that the hemp
byproduct is being produced, stored, and disposed of in accordance with rules
adopted under R.C. § 928.03.
   HYPODERMIC. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   JUVENILE. A person under 18 years of age.
   LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   L.S.D. Lysergic acid diethylamide.
   MAJOR DRUG OFFENDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANUFACTURE. To plant, cultivate, harvest, process, make, prepare, or
otherwise engage in any part of the production of a drug, by propagation,
extraction, chemical synthesis, or compounding, or any  combination of the
same, and includes packaging, repackaging, labeling, and other activities
incident to production.
   MANUFACTURER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   MARIHUANA. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01, except that it does
not include hashish.
   METHAMPHETAMINE. Methamphetamine, any salt, isomer, or salt of an isomer of
methamphetamine, or any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance containing
methamphetamine or any salt, isomer, or salt of an isomer of methamphetamine.
   MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. Either of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996,
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it exists on and after July 1,
1996, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that is a misdemeanor
or a felony of the fifth degree.
   OFFICIAL WRITTEN ORDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PERSON WITH A DRUG DEPENDENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   PHARMACIST. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PHARMACY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   POSSESS or POSSESSION. Having control over a thing or substance but may not
be inferred solely from mere access to the thing or substance through ownership
or occupation of the premises upon which the thing or substance is found.
   PREMISES OF A SUBSTANCE ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER'S FACILITY. Means the
parcel of real property on which any substance addiction service provider's
facility is situated.
   PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   PRESUMPTION FOR A PRISON TERM or PRESUMPTION THAT A PRISON TERM SHALL BE
IMPOSED. A presumption as described in R.C. § 2929.13(D) that a prison term is
a necessary sanction for a felony in order to comply with the purposes and
principles of sentencing under R.C. § 2929.11.
   PROFESSIONAL LICENSE. Any license, permit, certificate, registration,
qualification, admission, temporary license, temporary permit, temporary
certificate, or temporary registration that is described in R.C. § 2925.01(W)
(1) through (W)(37) and that qualifies a person as a professionally licensed
person.
   PROFESSIONALLY LICENSED PERSON. Any of the following:
      (1)   A person who has received a certificate or temporary certificate as
a certified public accountant or who has registered as a public accountant
under R.C. Chapter 4701 and who holds an Ohio permit issued under that chapter;
      (2)   A person who holds a certificate of qualification to practice
architecture issued or renewed and registered under R.C. Chapter 4703;
      (3)   A person who is registered as a landscape architect under R.C.
Chapter 4703 or who holds a permit as a landscape architect issued under that
chapter;
      (4)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4707;
      (5)   A person who has been issued a certificate of registration as a
registered barber under R.C. Chapter 4709;
      (6)   A person licensed and regulated to engage in the business of a debt
pooling company by a legislative authority, under authority of R.C. Chapter
4710;
      (7)   A person who has been issued a cosmetologist’s license, hair
designer’s license, manicurist’s license, esthetician’s license, natural hair
stylist’s license, advanced cosmetologist’s license, advanced hair designer’s
license, advanced manicurist’s license, advanced esthetician’s license,
advanced natural hair stylist’s license, cosmetology instructor’s license, hair
design instructor’s license, manicurist instructor’s license, esthetics
instructor’s license, natural hair style instructor’s license, independent
contractor’s license, or tanning facility permit under R.C. Chapter 4713;
      (8)   A person who has been issued a license to practice dentistry, a
general anesthesia permit, a conscious sedation permit, a limited resident’s
license, a limited teaching license, a dental hygienist’s license, or a dental
hygienist’s teacher’s certificate under R.C. Chapter 4715;
      (9)   A person who has been issued an embalmer’s license, a funeral
director’s license, a funeral home license, or a crematory license, or who has
been registered for an embalmer’s or funeral director’s apprenticeship under
R.C. Chapter 4717;
      (10)   A person who has been licensed as a registered nurse or practical
nurse, or who has been issued a certificate for the practice of nurse-midwifery
under R.C. Chapter 4723;
      (11)   A person who has been licensed to practice optometry or to engage
in optical dispensing under R.C. Chapter 4725;
      (12)   A person licensed to act as a pawnbroker under R.C. Chapter 4727;
      (13)   A person licensed to act as a precious metals dealer under R.C.
Chapter 4728;
      (14)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a pharmacist or
pharmacy intern or registered under that chapter as a registered pharmacy
technician, certified pharmacy technician, or pharmacy technician trainee;
      (15)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a manufacturer of
dangerous drugs, outsourcing facility, third-party logistics provider,
repackager of dangerous drugs, wholesale distributor of dangerous drugs, or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
      (16)   A person who is authorized to practice as a physician assistant
under R.C. Chapter 4730;
      (17)   A person who has been issued a license to practice medicine and
surgery, osteopathic medicine and surgery, or podiatric medicine and surgery
under R.C. Chapter 4731 or has been issued a certificate to practice a limited
branch of medicine under that chapter;
      (18)   A person licensed as a psychologist, independent school
psychologist, or school psychologist under R.C. Chapter 4732;
      (19)   A person registered to practice the profession of engineering or
surveying under R.C. Chapter 4733;
      (20)   A person who has been issued a license to practice chiropractic
under R.C. Chapter 4734;
      (21)   A person licensed to act as a real estate broker or real estate
salesperson under R.C. Chapter 4735;
      (22)   A person registered as a registered environmental health
specialist under R.C. Chapter 3776;
      (23)   A person licensed to operate or maintain a junkyard under R.C.
Chapter 4737;
      (24)   A person who has been issued a motor vehicle salvage dealer’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4738;
      (25)   A person who has been licensed to act as a steam engineer under
R.C. Chapter 4739;
      (26)   A person who has been issued a license or temporary permit to
practice veterinary medicine or any of its branches, or who is registered as a
graduate animal technician under R.C. Chapter 4741;
      (27)   A person who has been issued a hearing aid dealer’s or fitter’s
license or trainee permit under R.C. Chapter 4747;
      (28)   A person who has been issued a class A, class B, or class C
license or who has been registered as an investigator or security guard
employee under R.C. Chapter 4749;
      (29)   A person licensed to practice as a nursing home administrator
under R.C. Chapter 4751;
      (30)   A person licensed to practice as a speech-language pathologist or
audiologist under R.C. Chapter 4753;
      (31)   A person issued a license as an occupational therapist or physical
therapist under R.C. Chapter 4755;
      (32)   A person who is licensed as a licensed professional clinical
counselor, licensed professional counselor, social worker, independent social
worker, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage and family
therapist, or registered as a social work assistant under R.C. Chapter 4757;
      (33)   A person issued a license to practice dietetics under R.C. Chapter
4759;
      (34)   A person who has been issued a license or limited permit to
practice respiratory therapy under R.C. Chapter 4761;
      (35)   A person who has been issued a real estate appraiser certificate
under R.C. Chapter 4763;
      (36)   A person who has been issued a home inspector license under R.C.
Chapter 4764;
      (37)   A person who has been admitted to the bar by order of the Ohio
Supreme Court in compliance with its prescribed and published rules.
   PUBLIC PREMISES. Any hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other
place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort.
   SALE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   SAMPLE DRUG. A drug or pharmaceutical preparation that would be hazardous to
health or safety if used without the supervision of a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs, or a drug of abuse, and that, at
one time, had been placed in a container plainly marked as a sample by a
manufacturer.
   SCHEDULE I, SCHEDULE II, SCHEDULE III, SCHEDULE IV or SCHEDULE V. Have the
same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   SCHOOL. Any school operated by a board of education, any community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or any nonpublic school for which the
Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum standards under R.C. §
3301.07, whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or
training provided by the school is being conducted at the time a criminal
offense is committed.
   SCHOOL BUILDING. Any building in which any of the instruction,
extracurricular activities, or training provided by a school is conducted,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted in the school building at the time a
criminal offense is committed.
   SCHOOL PREMISES. Either of the following:
      (1)   The parcel of real property on which any school is situated,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted on the premises at the time a
criminal offense is committed.
      (2)   Any other parcel of real property that is owned or leased by a
board of education of a school, the governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or the governing body of a nonpublic
school for which the Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum
standards under R.C. § 3301.07 and on which some of the instruction,
extracurricular activities, or training of the school is conducted, whether or
not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training provided by the
school is being conducted on the parcel of real property at the time a criminal
offense is committed.
   STANDARD PHARMACEUTICAL REFERENCE MANUAL. The current edition, with
cumulative changes if any, of references that are approved by the State Board
of Pharmacy.
   SUBSTANCE ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Means an agency, association,
corporation or other legal entity, individual, or program that provides one or
more of the following at a facility:
      (1)   Either alcohol addiction services, or drug addiction services, or
both such services that are certified by the Ohio Director of Mental Health and
Addiction Services under R.C. § 5119.36;
      (2)   Recovery supports that are related to either alcohol addiction
services, or drug addiction services, or both such services and paid for with
federal, state, or local funds administered by the Ohio Department of Mental
Health and Addiction Services or a board of alcohol, drug addiction, and mental
health services.
   UNIT DOSE. An amount or unit or a compound, mixture, or preparation
containing a controlled substance that is separately identifiable and in a form
that indicates that it is the amount or unit by which the controlled substance
is separately administered to or taken by an individual.
   WHOLESALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
(R.C. § 2925.01)
§ 138.02 TRAFFICKING IN CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES; GIFT OF MARIHUANA.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Sell or offer to sell a controlled substance or a controlled
substance analog;
      (2)   Prepare for shipment, ship, transport, deliver, prepare for
distribution, or distribute a controlled substance or a controlled substance
analog, when the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
controlled substance or a controlled substance analog is intended for sale or
resale by the offender or another person.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
and 4741.
      (2)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration.
      (3)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses, or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the “Federal Food, Drug
and Cosmetic Act” (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended), and is sold, offered
for sale, prescribed, dispensed, or administered for that purpose in accordance
with that Act.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of the
following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) of this
section, trafficking in controlled substances is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the offense
involves a gift of 20 grams or less of marihuana, trafficking in marihuana is a
minor misdemeanor upon a first offense and a misdemeanor of the third degree
upon a subsequent offense. If the offense involves a gift of 20 grams or less
of marihuana and if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, trafficking in marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and marihuana, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of trafficking in marihuana and shall be
punished under division (C)(2) of this section. The offender is not guilty of
trafficking in a fentanyl-related compound and shall not be charged with,
convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.03(C)(9) for trafficking in a
fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of trafficking in a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.03(C)(9).
   (D)   As used in this section, “drug” includes any substance that is
represented to be a drug.
(R.C. § 2925.03(A) - (C), (I))
Statutory reference:
   Felony drug trafficking offenses, see R.C. § 2925.03(C)
§ 138.03 DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly obtain, possess, or use a controlled
substance or a controlled substance analog.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
and 4741.
         (b)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration.
         (c)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses, or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act, and is sold, offered for sale, prescribed, dispensed, or
administered for that purpose in accordance with that Act.
         (d)   Any person who obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs if the prescription was issued for a legitimate medical purpose and not
altered, forged, or obtained through deception or commission of a theft
offense. As used in this division (B)(1)(d), "deception" and "theft offense"
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (2)   (a)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section:
            COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 5119.01.
            COMMUNITY CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meanings as in R.C. §
2929.01
            HEALTH CARE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2919.16.
            MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. A violation of this section or R.C.
§ 2925.11 that is a misdemeanor or a felony of the fifth degree.
            PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
            POST-RELEASE CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2967.28.
            PUBLIC AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2930.01.
            QUALIFIED INDIVIDUAL. A person who is acting in good faith who
seeks or obtains medical assistance for another person who is experiencing a
drug overdose, a person who experiences a drug overdose and who seeks medical
assistance for that overdose, or a person who is the subject of another person
seeking or obtaining medical assistance for that overdose as described in
division (B)(2)(b) of this section.
            SEEK OR OBTAIN MEDICAL ASSISTANCE. Includes, but is not limited to
making a 9-1-1 call, contacting in person or by telephone call an on-duty peace
officer, or transporting or presenting a person to a health care facility.
         (b)   Subject to division (B)(2)(e) of this section, a qualified
individual shall not be arrested, charged, prosecuted, convicted, or penalized
pursuant to this chapter for a minor drug possession offense or a violation of
R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. § 2925.141 if all of the
following apply:
            1.   The evidence of the obtaining, possession, or use of the
controlled substance or controlled substance analog, drug abuse instruments, or
drug paraphernalia that would be the basis of the offense was obtained as a
result of the qualified individual seeking the medical assistance or
experiencing an overdose and needing medical assistance.
            2.   Subject to division (B)(2)(f) of this section, within 30 days
after seeking or obtaining the medical assistance, the qualified individual
seeks and obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment from a
community addiction services provider or a properly credentialed addiction
treatment professional.
            3.   Subject to division (B)(2)(f) of this section, the qualified
individual who obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment under
division (B)(2)(b)2. of this section, upon the request of any prosecuting
attorney, submits documentation to the prosecuting attorney that verifies that
the qualified individual satisfied the requirements of that division. The
documentation shall be limited to the date and time of the screening obtained
and referral received.
         (c)   If a person who is serving a community control sanction or is
under a sanction on post-release control acts pursuant to division (B)(2)(b) of
this section, then R.C. § 2929.141(B), R.C. § 2929.15(B)(2), R.C. § 2929.25(D)
(3), or R.C. § 2967.28(F)(3) applies to the person with respect to any
violation of the sanction or post-release control sanction based on a minor
drug possession offense, as defined in R.C. § 2925.11, or a violation of R.C. §
2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. § 2925.141.
         (d)   Nothing in division (B)(2)(b) of this section shall be construed
to do any of the following:
            1.   Limit the admissibility of any evidence in connection with the
investigation or prosecution of a crime with regards to a defendant who does
not qualify for the protections of division (B)(2)(b) of this section or with
regards to any crime other than a minor drug possession offense or a violation
of R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. § 2925.141 committed by a
person who qualifies for protection pursuant to division (B)(2)(b) of this
section;
            2.   Limit any seizure of evidence or contraband otherwise
permitted by law;
            3.   Limit or abridge the authority of a peace officer to detain or
take into custody a person in the course of an investigation or to effectuate
an arrest for any offense except as provided in that division;
            4.   Limit, modify, or remove any immunity from liability available
pursuant to law in effect prior to September 13, 2016 to any public agency or
to an employee of any public agency.
         (e)   Division (B)(2)(b) of this section does not apply to any person
who twice previously has been granted an immunity under division (B)(2)(b) of
this section. No person shall be granted an immunity under division (B)(2)(b)
of this section more than two times.
         (f)   Nothing in this section shall compel any qualified individual to
disclose protected health information in a way that conflicts with the
requirements of the "Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of
1996", 104 Pub. L. No. 191, 110 Stat. 2021, 42 U.S.C. §§ 1320d et seq., as
amended, and regulations promulgated by the United States Department of Health
and Human Services to implement the act or the requirements of 42 C.F.R. Part
2.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of one of the
following:
      (1)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana or hashish, whoever violates division (A) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of drugs.
The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2)(b) of this
section, possession of drugs is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the
offender previously has been convicted of a drug abuse offense, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds the bulk
amount, possession of drugs is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is marihuana or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing marihuana other than hashish,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of
marihuana. The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
of this section, possession of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 100 grams
but is less than 200 grams, possession of marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
possession of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (4)   If the drug involved in the violation is hashish or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing hashish, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of hashish. The penalty
for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(4)(b) or (C)(4)(c)
of this section, possession of hashish is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds five grams
but is less than ten grams of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds one
gram but is less than two grams of hashish in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of hashish is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds ten grams
of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds two grams of hashish in a
liquid concentrate, liquid extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of
hashish is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and marihuana, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(5)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of marihuana and shall be
punished as provided in division (C)(3) of this section. Except as otherwise
provided in division (C)(5)(b) of this section, the offender is not guilty of
possession of a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall
not be charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
      (6)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and any Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is
not a fentanyl-related compound, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(6)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of drugs and shall be punished as
provided in division (C)(2) of this section. Except as otherwise provided in
division (C)(6)(b) of this section, the offender is not guilty of possession of
a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall not be
charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
   (D)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
   (E)   (1)   In addition to any prison term or jail term authorized or
required by division (C) of this section and R.C. §§ 2929.13, 2929.14, 2929.22,
2929.24, and 2929.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
in addition to any other sanction that is imposed for the offense under this
section, R.C. §§ 2929.11 through 2929.18, or R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court that sentences
an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (A)
of this section may suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit for not more than five years. However, if the offender
pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another state or the
United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the violation,
the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or permit for not more than five years.
      (2)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
   (F)   (1)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
      (2)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (F) of this section, the
sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.11)
§ 138.04 POSSESSING DRUG ABUSE INSTRUMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make, obtain, possess, or use any
instrument, article, or thing the customary and primary purpose of which is for
the administration or use of a dangerous drug, other than marihuana, when the
instrument involved is a hypodermic or syringe, whether or not of crude or
extemporized manufacture or assembly, and the instrument, article, or thing
involved has been used by the offender to unlawfully administer or use a
dangerous drug, other than marihuana, or to prepare a dangerous drug, other
than marihuana, for unlawful administration or use.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct was in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719,
4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741.
      (2)   Division (B)(2) of R.C. § 2925.11 applies with respect to a
violation of this section when a person seeks or obtains medical assistance for
another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a person experiences a drug
overdose and seeks medical assistance for that overdose, or a person is the
subject of another person seeking or obtaining medical assistance for that
overdose.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing drug abuse
instruments, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, violation of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (D)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.12)
§ 138.05 PERMITTING DRUG ABUSE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner, operator, or person in charge of a
locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, shall knowingly permit the vehicle to be used for the commission of a
felony drug abuse offense.
   (B)   No person, who is the owner, lessee, or occupant, or who has custody,
control, or supervision of premises, or real estate, including vacant land,
shall knowingly permit his or her premises, or real estate, including vacant
land, to be used for the commission of a felony drug abuse offense by another
person.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting drug abuse.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, permitting
drug abuse is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Permitting drug abuse is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the felony drug abuse offense in question is a
violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, or 2925.04, or if the felony drug abuse
offense in question is a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 and the offender had
actual knowledge, at the time the offender permitted the vehicle, premises, or
real estate to be used as described in division (A) or (B) of this section,
that the person who assembled or possessed the chemicals in question in
violation of R.C. § 2925.041 had assembled or possessed them with the intent to
manufacture a controlled substance in Schedule I or Schedule II in violation of
R.C. § 2925.04.
   (D)   Any premises or real estate that is permitted to be used in violation
of division (B) of this section constitutes a nuisance subject to abatement
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2925.13)
§ 138.06 ILLEGAL CULTIVATION OF MARIHUANA.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cultivate marihuana.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person listed in R.C. § 2925.03(B)
(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, to
the extent and under the circumstances described in that division.
   (C)   Whoever commits a violation of division (A) of this section is guilty
of illegal cultivation of marihuana.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in the following divisions, illegal
cultivation of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor or, if the offense was
committed in the vicinity of a school or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 100 grams but
is less than 200 grams, illegal cultivation of marihuana is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree or, if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school
or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (3)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
illegal cultivation of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
(R.C. § 2925.04(A), (B), (C)(5), (G))
Statutory reference:
   Illegal manufacturing of controlled substances, felony, see R.C. § 2925.04
   Sale or use of drugs not approved by Food and Drug Administration, felony,
see R.C. § 2925.09
§ 138.07 ABUSING HARMFUL INTOXICANTS.
   (A)   Except for lawful research, clinical, medical, dental, or veterinary
purposes, no person, with purpose to induce intoxication or similar
physiological effects, shall obtain, possess, or use a harmful intoxicant.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of abusing harmful
intoxicants, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, abusing harmful intoxicants is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to the September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (C)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.31)
§ 138.08 ILLEGAL DISPENSING OF DRUG SAMPLES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly furnish a sample drug to another person.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to manufacturers,
wholesalers, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, licensed health professionals
authorized to prescribe drugs, and other persons whose conduct is in accordance
with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4725, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal dispensing of
drug samples.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the offense is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the offense is a dangerous drug or a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule
IV or Schedule V, or is marihuana, the penalty for the offense shall be
determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in the following division, illegal
dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         (b)   If the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2925.36(A) - (C))
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see R.C. § 2925.36(C)(2)
§ 138.09 FEDERAL PROSECUTION BAR TO MUNICIPAL PROSECUTION.
   No person shall be prosecuted for a violation of this chapter if the person
has been acquitted or convicted under the federal drug abuse control laws of
the same act or omission which, it is alleged, constitutes a violation of this
chapter.
(R.C. §§ 2925.50, 3719.19)
§ 138.10 NITROUS OXIDE: IMPROPER DISPENSING OR DISTRIBUTION; POSSESSION IN A
MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Improper dispensing or distribution.
      (1)   No person who dispenses or distributes nitrous oxide in cartridges
shall fail to comply with either of the following:
         (a)   The record-keeping requirements established under division (A)
(3) of this section.
         (b)   The labeling and transaction identification requirements
established under division (A)(4) of this section.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(1)(b) of this section is
guilty of improperly dispensing or distributing nitrous oxide, a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
      (3)   Beginning July 1, 2001, a person who dispenses or distributes
nitrous oxide shall record each transaction involving the dispensing or
distribution of the nitrous oxide on a separate card. The person shall require
the purchaser to sign the card and provide a complete residence address. The
person dispensing or distributing the nitrous oxide shall sign and date the
card. The person shall retain the card recording a transaction for one year
from the date of the transaction. The person shall maintain the cards at the
person’s business address and make them available during normal business hours
for inspection and copying by officers or employees of the State Board of
Pharmacy or of other law enforcement agencies that are authorized to
investigate violations of this code, R.C. Chapters 2925, 3719, or 4729, or
federal drug abuse control laws. The cards used to record each transaction
shall inform the purchaser of the following:
         (a)   That nitrous oxide cartridges are to be used only for purposes
of preparing food;
         (b)   That inhalation of nitrous oxide can have dangerous health
effects; and
         (c)   That it is a violation of state law to distribute or dispense
cartridges of nitrous oxide to any person under age 21, punishable as a felony
of the fifth degree.
      (4)   (a)   Each cartridge of nitrous oxide dispensed or distributed in
this municipality shall bear the following printed warning: “Nitrous oxide
cartridges are to be used only for purposes of preparing food. Nitrous oxide
cartridges may not be sold to persons under age 21. Do not inhale contents.
Misuse can be dangerous to your health.”
         (b)   Each time a person dispenses or distributes one or more
cartridges of nitrous oxide, the person shall mark the packaging containing the
cartridges with a label or other device that identifies the person who
dispensed or distributed the nitrous oxide and the person’s business address.
(R.C. § 2925.32(B)(4), (D)(2), (F), (G))
   (B)   Possession in a motor vehicle.
      (1)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE, STREET and HIGHWAY have the
same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      (2)   Unless authorized by this code or by state law, no person shall
possess an open cartridge of nitrous oxide in either of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   While operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on
a street, highway, or other public or private property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking.
         (b)   While being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on a street,
highway, or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular traffic or parking.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of possessing nitrous
oxide in a motor vehicle, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (4)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for
possessing nitrous oxide in a motor vehicle, the court may suspend for not more
than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit.
(R.C. § 2925.33)
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking in harmful intoxicants, see R.C. § 2925.32
§ 138.11 LABORATORY REPORT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of this chapter or
R.C. Chapters 2925 or 3719, a laboratory report from the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation or a laboratory operated by another law
enforcement agency, or a laboratory established by or under the authority of an
institution of higher education that has its main campus in this state and that
is accredited by the Association of American Universities or the North Central
Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, primarily for the purpose of
providing scientific service to law enforcement agencies, and signed by the
person performing the analysis, stating that the substance that is the basis of
the alleged offense has been weighed and analyzed and stating the findings as
to the content, weight, and identity of the substance and that it contains any
amount of a controlled substance and the number and description of unit
dosages, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity, and weight or the
existence and number of unit dosages of the substance. In any criminal
prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 or a violation of this chapter,
R.C. Chapter 2925 or R.C. Chapter 3719 that is based on the possession of
chemicals sufficient to produce a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance
included in Schedule I, II, III, IV, or V, a laboratory report from the Bureau
or from any laboratory that is operated or established as described in this
division that is signed by the person performing the analysis, stating that the
substances that are the basis of the alleged offense have been weighed and
analyzed and stating the findings as to the content, weight, and identity of
each of the substances, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity, and
weight of the substances.
      (2)   Attached to that report shall be a copy of a notarized statement by
the signer of the report giving the name of the signer and stating that the
signer is an employee of the laboratory issuing the report and that performing
the analysis is a part of the signer’s regular duties, and giving an outline of
the signer’s education, training, and experience for performing an analysis of
materials included under this section. The signer shall attest that
scientifically accepted tests were performed with due caution, and that the
evidence was handled in accordance with established and accepted procedures
while in the custody of the laboratory.
   (B)   The prosecuting attorney shall serve a copy of the report on the
attorney of record for the accused, or on the accused if the accused has no
attorney, prior to any proceeding in which the report is to be used against the
accused other than at a preliminary hearing or grand jury proceeding where the
report may be used without having been previously served upon the accused.
   (C)   The report shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents,
identity, and weight or the existence and number of unit dosages of the
substance if the accused or the accused’s attorney demands the testimony of the
person signing the report, by serving the demand upon the prosecuting attorney,
within seven days from the accused or the accused’s attorney’s receipt of the
report. The time may be extended by a trial judge in the interests of justice.
   (D)   Any report issued for use under this section shall contain notice of
the right of the accused to demand, and the manner in which the accused shall
demand, the testimony of the person signing the report.
   (E)   Any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C.
Chapters 2925 or 3719 is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a portion of the substance that is, or of each of the
substances that are, the basis of the alleged violation preserved for the
benefit of independent analysis performed by a laboratory analyst employed by
the accused person, or, if the accused is indigent, by a qualified laboratory
analyst appointed by the court. Such portion shall be a representative sample
of the entire substance that is, or of each of the substances that are, the
basis of the alleged violation and shall be of sufficient size, in the opinion
of the court, to permit the accused’s analyst to make a thorough scientific
analysis concerning the identity of the substance or substances. The
prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused’s analyst with the sample
portion at least 14 days prior to trial, unless the trial is to be held in a
court not of record or unless the accused person is charged with a minor
misdemeanor, in which case the prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused’s
analyst with the sample portion at least three days prior to trial. If the
prosecuting attorney determines that such a sample portion cannot be preserved
and given to the accused’s analyst, the prosecuting attorney shall so inform
the accused person, or the accused’s attorney. In such a circumstance, the
accused person is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have the accused’s privately employed or court appointed analyst
present at an analysis of the substance that is, or the substances that are,
the basis of the alleged violation, and, upon further written request, to
receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the analysis
and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at conclusions, findings, or
opinions concerning the identity of the substance or substances subject to the
analysis.
   (F)   In addition to the rights provided under division (E) of this section,
any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C. Chapters 2925
or 3719 that involves a bulk amount of a controlled substance, or any multiple
thereof, or who is accused of a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, other than a minor misdemeanor violation, that
involves marihuana, is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a laboratory analyst of the accused’s choice, or, if the
accused is indigent, a qualified laboratory analyst appointed by the court,
present at a measurement or weighing of the substance that is the basis of the
alleged violation. Also, the accused person is entitled, upon further written
request, to receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the
measurement or weighing and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at
conclusions, findings, or opinions concerning the weight, volume, or number of
unit doses of the substance subject to the measurement or weighing.
(R.C. § 2925.51)
   (G)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required under
R.C. §§ 2929.18 and 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required
under any provision of law, the court imposing sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a drug abuse offense may order the offender to
pay to the state, municipal, or county law enforcement agencies that handled
the investigation and prosecution all of the costs that the state, municipal
corporation, or county reasonably incurred in having tests performed under this
section or R.C. § 2925.51 or in any other manner on any substance that was the
basis of, or involved in, the offense to determine whether the substance
contained any amount of a controlled substance if the results of the tests
indicate that the substance tested contained any controlled substance. No court
shall order an offender under this section to pay the costs of tests performed
on a substance if the results of the tests do not indicate that the substance
tested contained any controlled substance. The court shall hold a hearing to
determine the amount of costs to be imposed under this section. The court may
hold the hearing as part of the sentencing hearing for the offender.
(R.C. § 2925.511)
§ 138.12 COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly possess any counterfeit controlled
substance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be guilty of
possession of counterfeit controlled substances, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2925.37(A), (G))
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking and other felony counterfeit controlled substance offenses, see
R.C. § 2925.37(H) through (M)
§ 138.13 USE, POSSESSION, OR SALE OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   As used in this section, DRUG PARAPHERNALIA means any equipment,
product, or material of any kind that is used by the offender, intended by the
offender for use, or designed for use, in propagating, cultivating, growing,
harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing,
preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing,
concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the
human body, a controlled substance in violation of this chapter. The term
includes but is not limited to any of the following equipment, products, or
materials that are used by the offender, intended by the offender for use, or
designed by the offender for use, in any of the following manners:
      (1)   A kit for propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting any
species of a plant that is a controlled substance or from which a controlled
substance can be derived.
      (2)   A kit for manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, or preparing a controlled substance.
      (3)   Any object, instrument, or device for manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, or preparing methamphetamine.
      (4)   An isomerization device for increasing the potency of any species
of a plant that is a controlled substance.
      (5)   Testing equipment for identifying, or analyzing the strength,
effectiveness, or purity of, a controlled substance, except for those exempted
in division (D)(4) of this section;
      (6)   A scale or balance for weighing or measuring a controlled
substance.
      (7)   A diluent or adulterant, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose, or lactose, for cutting a controlled substance.
      (8)   A separation gin or sifter for removing twigs and seeds from, or
otherwise cleaning or refining, marihuana.
      (9)   A blender, bowl, container, spoon, or mixing device for compounding
a controlled substance.
      (10)   A capsule, balloon, envelope, or container for packaging small
quantities of a controlled substance.
      (11)   A container or device for storing or concealing a controlled
substance.
      (12)   A hypodermic syringe, needle, or instrument for parenterally
injecting a controlled substance into the human body.
      (13)   An object, instrument, or device for ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing into the human body, marihuana, cocaine, hashish, or
hashish oil, such as a metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or
ceramic pipe, with or without a screen, permanent screen, hashish head, or
punctured metal bowl; water pipe; carburetion tube or device; smoking or
carburetion mask; roach clip or similar object used to hold burning material,
such as a marihuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be
held in the hand; miniature cocaine spoon, or cocaine vial; chamber pipe;
carburetor pipe; electric pipe; air driver pipe; chillum; bong; or ice pipe or
chiller.
   (B)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, the following:
      (1)   Any statement by the owner or by anyone in control of the
equipment, product, or material, concerning its use.
      (2)   The proximity in time or space of the equipment, product, or
material, or of the act relating to the equipment, product, or material, to a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2925.
      (3)   The proximity of the equipment, product, or material to any
controlled substance.
      (4)   The existence of any residue of a controlled substance on the
equipment, product, or material.
      (5)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of the owner, or of
anyone in control, of the equipment, product, or material, to deliver it to any
person whom he or she knows intends to use the equipment, product, or material
to facilitate a violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter
2925. A finding that the owner or anyone in control of the equipment, product,
or material is not guilty of a violation of any other provision of this chapter
or R.C. Chapter 2925 does not prevent a finding that the equipment, product, or
material was intended or designed by the offender for use as drug
paraphernalia.
      (6)   Any oral or written instruction provided with the equipment,
product, or material concerning its use.
      (7)   Any descriptive material accompanying the equipment, product, or
material and explaining or depicting its use.
      (8)   National or local advertising concerning the use of the equipment,
product, or material.
      (9)   The manner and circumstances in which the equipment, product, or
material is displayed for sale.
      (10)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of the sales of the
equipment, product, or material to the total sales of the business enterprise.
      (11)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses of the equipment,
product, or material in the community.
      (12)   Expert testimony concerning the use of the equipment, product, or
material.
   (C)   (1)   Subject to divisions (D)(2), (D)(3), and (D)(4) of this section,
no person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, drug
paraphernalia.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly sell, or possess or manufacture with
purpose to sell, drug paraphernalia, if he or she knows or reasonably should
know that the equipment, product, or material will be used as drug
paraphernalia.
      (3)   No person shall place an advertisement in any newspaper, magazine,
handbill, or other publication that is published and printed and circulates
primarily within this state, if he or she knows that the purpose of the
advertisement is to promote the illegal sale in this municipality or in this
state of the equipment, product, or material that the offender intended or
designed for use as drug paraphernalia.
   (D)   (1)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741. This section shall not be construed to
prohibit the possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. §
3719.172.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a person’s use,
or possession with purpose to use, any drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a
product, or material of any kind that is used by the person, intended by the
person for use, or designed for use in storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body
marihuana.
      (3)   Division (B)(2) of R.C. § 2925.11 applies with respect to a
violation of division (C)(1) of this section when a person seeks or obtains
medical assistance for another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a
person experiences a drug overdose and seeks medical assistance for that
overdose, or a person is the subject of another person seeking or obtaining
medical assistance for that overdose.
      (4)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a person's use,
or possession with purpose to use, any drug testing strips to determine the
presence of fentanyl or a fentanyl-related compound.
   (E)   Notwithstanding R.C. Chapter 2981, any drug paraphernalia that was
used, possessed, sold, or manufactured in violation of this section shall be
seized, after a conviction for that violation, shall be forfeited, and upon
forfeiture shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 2981.12(B).
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (F)(3) of this section, whoever
violates division (C)(2) of this section is guilty of dealing in drug
paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C)(2) of this section by selling drug
paraphernalia to a juvenile is guilty of selling drug paraphernalia to
juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (C)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal advertising of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (G)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.14)
   (H)   Illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia.
      (1)   As used in this division (H), DRUG PARAPHERNALIA has the same
meaning as in division (A) of this section.
      (2)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, all factors identified in division (B) of this
section.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, any
drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a product, or material of any kind that
is used by the person, intended by the person for use, or designed for use in
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body marihuana.
      (4)   This division (H) does not apply to any person identified in
division (D)(1) of this section, and it shall not be construed to prohibit the
possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. § 3719.172.
      (5)   (a)   Division (E) of this section applies with respect to any drug
paraphernalia that was used or possessed in violation of division (H) of this
section.
         (b)   Division (B)(2) of R.C. § 2925.11 applies with respect to a
violation of this division (H) when a person seeks or obtains medical
assistance for another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a person
experiences a drug overdose and seeks medical assistance for that overdose, or
a person is the subject of another person seeking or obtaining medical
assistance for that overdose.
      (6)   (a)   Whoever violates division (H)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia, a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   Arrest or conviction for a violation of division (H)(3) of this
section does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the
person so arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person's
criminal record, including any inquiries contained in any application for
employment, license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with
the person's appearance as a witness.
      (7)   (a)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender
for a violation of division (H) of this section, the court shall do the
following, if applicable:
            1.   If the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a
violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance or
the law of another state or the United States arising out of the same set of
circumstances as the violation, the court shall suspend the offender's driver's
or commercial driver's license or permit for not more than five years.
            2.   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
         (b)   1.   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under division (H)
of this section prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the
sentencing court requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an
offender who pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another
state or the United States that arose out of the same set of circumstances as
the violation for which the offender’s license or permit was suspended under
division (H) of this section shall not file such a motion.
            2.   Upon the filing of a motion under division (H)(7)(b) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.141)
§ 138.14 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE OR PRESCRIPTION LABELS.
   (A)   Whenever a manufacturer sells a controlled substance, and whenever a
wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility sells a controlled substance in
a package the wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility has prepared, the
manufacturer or the wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility, as the
case may be, shall securely affix to each package in which the controlled
substance is contained a label showing in legible English the name and address
of the vendor and the quantity, kind, and form of controlled substance
contained therein. No person, except a pharmacist for the purpose of dispensing
a controlled substance upon a prescription shall alter, deface, or remove any
label so affixed. As used in this division, “repackager” and “outsourcing
facility” have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   (B)   No person shall alter, deface or remove any label affixed pursuant to
R.C. § 3719.08 as long as any of the original contents remain.
(R.C. § 3719.08(A), (E))
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, or R.C. § 3719.07 or 3719.08, or a drug abuse offense, a violation of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
violation involves the sale, offer to sell, or possession of a Schedule I or II
controlled substance, with the exception of marihuana, and if the offender, as
a result of the violation, is a major drug offender, then R.C. § 3719.99(D)
applies.
(R.C. § 3719.99(C))
§ 138.15 POSSESSION, SALE AND DISPOSAL OF HYPODERMICS.
   (A)   Possession of a hypodermic is authorized for the following:
      (1)   A manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in hypodermics, or
medication packaged in hypodermics, and any authorized agent of employee of
that manufacturer, distributor or dealer, in the regular course of business;
      (2)   A terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, in the regular course of
business;
      (3)   A person authorized to administer injections, in the regular course
of the person’s profession or employment;
      (4)   A person, when the hypodermic in his possession was lawfully
obtained and is kept and used for the purpose of self-administration of insulin
or other drug prescribed for the treatment of disease by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs;
      (5)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for legal research, clinical,
educational or medicinal purposes;
      (6)   A farmer, for the lawful administration of a drug to an animal;
      (7)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for lawful professional,
mechanical, trade or craft purposes.
   (B)   No manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in, hypodermics or
medication packaged in hypodermics, or their authorized agents or employees,
and no terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, shall display any hypodermic
for sale. No person authorized to possess a hypodermic pursuant to division (A)
of this section shall negligently fail to take reasonable precautions to
prevent any hypodermic in the person’s possession from theft or acquisition by
any unauthorized person.
(R.C. § 3719.172(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (B) of this section, R.C. § 3719.05, 3719.06,
3719.13, 3719.172(B), or 3719.31, or a drug abuse offense, a violation of
division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 3719.99(E))
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see R.C. § 3719.172(C) and (D)
§ 138.16 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE SCHEDULES.
   Controlled Substance Schedules I, II, III, IV, and V, as established in R.C.
§ 3719.41 and amended by R.C. §§ 3719.43 and 3719.44, are hereby adopted by
reference, and shall be treated as if set forth in full herein.
§ 138.17 UNLAWFUL FURNISHING OF PRESCRIPTION TO ENABLE PERSONS TO BE ISSUED
HANDICAPPED PARKING PLACARDS OR LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No physician or chiropractor shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Furnish a person with a prescription in order to enable the person
to be issued a standard removable windshield placard, temporary removable
windshield placard, permanent removable windshield placard, or license plates
under R.C. § 4503.44, knowing that the person does not meet any of the criteria
contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
      (2)   Furnish a person with a prescription described in division (A)(1)
of this section and knowingly misstate on the prescription the length of time
the physician or chiropractor expects the person to have the disability that
limits or impairs the person’s ability to walk in order to enable the person to
retain a placard issued under R.C. § 4503.44 for a period of time longer than
that which would be estimated by a similar practitioner under the same or
similar circumstances.
(R.C. §§ 4731.481, 4734.161)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. §§ 4731.99(F), 4734.99(B))
Cross-reference:
   Parking privileges for persons with disabilities, see §
76.05
§ 138.18 PSEUDOEPHEDRINE SALES.
   (A)   Unlawful purchases.
      (1)   As used in divisions (A), (B), (C) and (D) of this section:
         CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by humans
and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only pursuant to a
prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or
salts of optical isomers.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale
to the general public.
         SINGLE-INGREDIENT PREPARATION. A compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 4729.01.
      (2)   (a)   1.   No individual shall knowingly purchase, receive, or
otherwise acquire an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
that is greater than either of the following unless the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product is dispensed by a pharmacist pursuant to a valid
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist and the licensed health professional
authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The limits specified in divisions (A)(2)(a)1.a. and (A)(2)
(a)1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine or
base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The limits do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         (b)   It is not a violation of division (B)(1) of this section for an
individual to receive or accept more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product specified in division (A)(2)(a)1.a. or (A)(2)(a)1.b. of
this section if the individual is an employee of a retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   (a)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly purchase,
receive, or otherwise acquire a pseudoephedrine product, or ephedrine product
unless the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product is dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist
and the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741.
         (b)   Division (A)(3)(a) of this section does not apply to an
individual under 18 years of age who purchases, receives, or otherwise acquires
a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product from any of the following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to that individual and whose conduct is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of that individual who provides the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person, as authorized by that individual’s parent or
guardian, who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            4.   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs who
provides the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to that individual if
the individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs and the individual receives or accepts from the retailer or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (4)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly show or give
false information concerning the individual’s name, age, or other
identification for the purpose of purchasing, receiving, or otherwise acquiring
a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
      (5)   No individual shall knowingly fail to comply with the requirements
of R.C. § 3715.051(B).
      (6)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawful purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (A)(3)(a) of this section is guilty of
underage purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of using
false information to purchase a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the first degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (9)   Whoever violates division (A)(5) of this section is guilty of
improper purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2925.55)
   (B)   Unlawful retail sales.
      (1)   (a)   1.   Except as provided in division (B)(1)(b) of this
section, no retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee
of a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall knowingly sell,
offer to sell, hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide to any individual
an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (B)(1)(a)1.a. and
(B)(1)(a)1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine
or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         (b)   1.   Division (B)(1)(a) of this section does not apply to any
quantity of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs if the conduct of the pharmacist and
the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741.
            2.   It is not a violation of division (B)(1)(a) of this section
for a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee of either
to provide to an individual more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product specified in division (B)(1)(a)1.a. or (B)(1)(a)1.b. of this
section under either of the following circumstances:
               a.   The individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product in a sealed container in
connection with manufacturing, warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging,
loading, or unloading of the product;
               b.   A stop-sale alert is generated after the submission of
information to the national precursor log exchange under the conditions
described in R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this section, no
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee of a
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall sell, offer to sell,
hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual who is under 18 years of age.
         (b)   Division (B)(2)(a) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age and whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of an individual under 18 years of age
who provides a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person who, as authorized by the individual’s parent or
guardian, dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age;
            4.   The provision by a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, or employee of either of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
in a sealed container to an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs who is under 18 years of age in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.051(A) or R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (4)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.052(A)(1).
      (5)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(2)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to a minor, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of
improper sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a misdemeanor
of the second degree.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of
failing to submit information to the national precursor log exchange, a
misdemeanor for which the offender shall be fined not more than $1,000 per
violation.
(R.C. § 2925.56)
   (C)   Transaction scans.
      (1)   As used in this division and division (D) of this section:
         CARD HOLDER. Means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive any pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product from the seller, agent, or employee.
         IDENTIFICATION CARD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2927.021.
         SELLER. Means a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs.
         TRANSACTION SCAN. Means the process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks by means of a transaction scan device the validity
of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card that is
presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving any pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product.
         TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2927.021.
      (2)   (a)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away, or otherwise distributing
to the card holder a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
         (b)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (C)(2)(a) of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away, or otherwise distribute any
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the card holder.
         (c)   Division (C)(2)(a) of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller as a condition for selling, giving away, or
otherwise distributing a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the
person presenting the document from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or an identification card if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (C) and division (D) of this section.
      (4)   (a)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except the following:
            1.   The name, address, and date of birth of the person listed on
the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by
a card holder;
            2.   The expiration date, identification number, and issuing agency
of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by a card holder.
         (b)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (C)(4)(a) of this section except for
purposes of division (D) of this section, R.C. § 2925.58, or R.C. § 3715.052(A)
(1).
         (c)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (C)(2)(a) of this section.
         (d)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (D) of this section
or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (C) or division (D) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable state or federal laws or rules governing the
sale, giving away, or other distribution of pseudoephedrine products or
ephedrine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (C)(2)(b) or (C)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil penalty of
up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay each
collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the County
Treasury.
(R.C. § 2925.57)
   (D)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (B) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of a pseudoephedrine product is an
element of the alleged violation if the seller, agent, or employee raises and
proves as an affirmative defense that all of the following occurred:
         (a)   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive a
pseudoephedrine product presented a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
an identification card.
         (b)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that
the license or card was valid.
         (c)   The pseudoephedrine product was sold, given away, or otherwise
distributed to the card holder in reasonable reliance upon the identification
presented and the completed transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (D)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (B) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (B) of this
section. For purposes of division (D)(1)(c) of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         (a)   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away, or otherwise distributes a pseudoephedrine product is
18 years of age or older;
         (b)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (D)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
deputy registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50
through 4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of
that issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2925.58)
   (E)   Retailer’s duties.
      (1)   As used in divisions (E) and (F) of this section:
         CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by humans
and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only pursuant to a
prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         DRUG. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. An officer or employee of any agency or
authority of the United States, a state, a territory, a political subdivision
of a state or territory, or an Indian tribe, who is empowered by the law to
investigate or conduct an official inquiry into a potential violation of law or
prosecute or otherwise conduct a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding
arising from an alleged violation of law.
         LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         NATIONAL PRECURSOR LOG EXCHANGE or EXCHANGE. The electronic system for
tracking sales of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products on a national
basis that is administered by the National Association of Drug Diversion
Investigators or a successor organization.
         PHARMACIST. A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 to engage in the
practice of pharmacy.
         PHARMACY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PRESCRIBER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PROOF OF AGE. A driver’s license, a commercial driver’s license, a
military identification card, a passport, or an identification card issued
under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows a person is 18 years of age or
older.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or
salts of optical isomers.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale
to the general public.
         SINGLE-INGREDIENT PREPARATION. A compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         STOP-SALE ALERT. A notification sent from the national precursor log
exchange to a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs indicating
that the completion of a sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
would result in a violation of R.C. § 2925.56(A)(1) or federal law.
         TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meanings as in
R.C. § 4729.01.
         WHOLESALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
      (2)   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs that sells,
offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers, or otherwise provides a
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the public shall do all of the
following:
         (a)   Segregate pseudoephedrine products or ephedrine products from
other merchandise so that no member of the public may procure or purchase such
products without the direct assistance of a pharmacist or other authorized
employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
         (b)   With regard to each time a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product is sold or otherwise provided without a valid prescription:
            1.   Determine, by examination of a valid proof of age, that the
purchaser or recipient is at least 18 years of age;
            2.   a.   Using any information available, including information
from the national precursor log exchange if the information is accessible, make
a reasonable attempt to ensure that no individual purchases or receives an
amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
                  I.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single
day;
                  ii.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
               b.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (E)(2)(b)2.a.i.
and (E)(2)(b)2.a.ii. of this section apply to the total amount of base
pseudoephedrine or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product, respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s
overall weight.
         (c)   Maintain a log book of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product purchases, in accordance with R.C. § 3715.051;
         (d)   If required to comply with section R.C. § 3715.052, submit the
information specified in divisions (A)(1)(a) to (A)(1)(d) of that section to
the national precursor log exchange.
      (3)   Prescriptions, orders, and records maintained pursuant to this
section and stocks of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products shall be
open for inspection to federal, state, county, and municipal officers, and
employees of the State Board of Pharmacy whose duty it is to enforce the laws
of this state or of the United States relating to controlled substances. Such
prescriptions, orders, records, and stocks shall be open for inspection by the
State Medical Board and its employees for purposes of enforcing R.C. Chapter
4731.
(R.C. § 3715.05)
   (F)   Theft or loss; reporting requirements.
      (1)   Each retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy,
prescriber, or wholesaler that sells, offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers,
or otherwise provides any pseudoephedrine product and that discovers the theft
or loss of any pseudoephedrine product in an amount of more than nine grams per
incident of theft or loss shall notify all of the following upon discovery of
the theft or loss:
         (a)   The State Board of Pharmacy, by telephone immediately upon
discovery of the theft or loss;
         (b)   Law enforcement authorities. If the incident is a theft and the
theft constitutes a felony, the retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, pharmacy, prescriber, or wholesaler shall report the theft to the law
enforcement authorities in accordance with R.C. § 2921.22.
      (2)   Within 30 days after making a report by telephone to the State
Board of Pharmacy pursuant to division (F)(1)(a) of this section, a retailer,
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy, prescriber, or wholesaler
shall send a written report to the State Board of Pharmacy.
      (3)   The reports required under this section shall identify the product
that was stolen or lost, the amount of the product stolen or lost, and the date
and time of discovery of the theft or loss.
(R.C. § 3715.06)
§ 138.19 SALE OF PURE CAFFEINE PRODUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section, PURE CAFFEINE PRODUCT means:
      (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) of this section, a product that consists
solely or primarily of caffeine and is manufactured into a crystalline, liquid,
or powdered form.
      (2)   The phrase does not include any of the following that contains
caffeine and is formulated, manufactured, and labeled in accordance with the
laws and regulations enforced by the United States Food and Drug
Administration:
         (a)   Coffee, tea, any soft drink, any energy drink, or any other
caffeine-containing beverage;
         (b)   Any energy product.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, no person shall
knowingly sell or offer for sale a pure caffeine product.
   (C)   Division (B) of this section does not prohibit a person from selling
or offering for sale any product manufactured in a unit-dose form such as a
pill, tablet, or caplet, but only if each unit dose of the product contains not
more than 250 milligrams of caffeine.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits either of the following:
      (1)   Possession of a product described in division (C) of this section;
      (2)   Possession of a pure caffeine product by any of the following:
         (a)   A food processing establishment, as defined in R.C. § 3715.021;
         (b)   A manufacturer of a drug that is available without a
prescription;
         (c)   A laboratory that holds a current, valid category III terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs license issued by the state board of pharmacy
under R.C. § 4729.54;
         (d)   A laboratory of any agency or department of this state that
performs testing, analysis, and other laboratory services on behalf of the
state;
         (e)   A postal or delivery service that transports or delivers a pure
caffeine product to an entity specified in divisions (D)(2)(a) to (D)(2)(d) of
this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegal
sale of pure caffeine, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor
of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 2925.34)
§ 138.20 SALE OF DEXTROMETHORPHAN.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      DEXTROMETHORPHAN. Means the dextrorotatory isomer of 3-methoxy-N-
methylmorphinan, including its salts, but not including its racemic or
levorotatory forms.
      EVIDENCE OF MAJORITY AND IDENTITY. Means a document issued by the federal
government or a state, county, or municipal government, or a subdivision or
agency of any of the foregoing, including a driver's or commercial driver's
license, an identification card issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52, a
military identification card, or any other form of identification that bears
the name, date of birth, description, and picture of the person identified.
      RETAILER. Means a place of business that offers consumer products for
sale to the general public, including a terminal distributor of dangerous drugs
that is licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 and operated as a pharmacy.
   (B)   No retailer or employee of a retailer shall knowingly supply, deliver,
give, or otherwise provide a drug, material, compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance containing any quantity of dextromethorphan through the sale of any
product to a person under 18 years of age, unless the person has been issued a
prescription for the product being purchased.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) of this section, the person making the
sale of a product containing dextromethorphan shall require and obtain evidence
of majority and identity from the purchaser, unless from the purchaser's
outward appearance the person making the sale would reasonably presume the
purchaser to be 25 years of age or older. Proof that the person making the sale
demanded, was shown, and acted in reasonable reliance on the purchaser's
evidence of majority and identity is a defense to any charge of a violation of
division (B) of this section.
   (D)   A retailer or employee of a retailer is not liable for damages in a
civil action for injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly
arises from an act or omission associated with a failure to prevent the sale of
a product containing dextromethorphan to a person under 18 years of age, unless
the act or omission constitutes willful or wanton misconduct.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegally
selling dextromethorphan, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2925.62)
§ 138.21 ADULT USE CANNABIS CONTROL; LIMITATIONS ON CONDUCT BY INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780 and notwithstanding
any conflicting provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, an adult use
consumer, may do the following:
      (1)   Use adult use cannabis;
      (2)   Possess, transfer without remuneration to another adult consumer,
or transport adult use cannabis, subject to division (B) of this section; and
      (3)   Purchase adult use cannabis from an adult use dispensary per day in
amounts that do not exceed the possession limits set forth in division (B)(1)
of this section.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3796:
      (1)   The amount of cannabis that may be possessed by an adult use
consumer shall not exceed:
         (a)   Two and one-half ounces of adult use cannabis in any form except
adult use extract; and
         (b)   Fifteen grams of adult use cannabis in the form of adult use
extract.
      (2)   The amount of cannabis that may be transferred by an adult use
consumer without remuneration and not advertised or promoted to the public
shall not exceed:
         (a)   Two and one-half ounces of adult use cannabis in any form except
adult use extract; and
         (b)   Fifteen grams of adult use cannabis in the form of adult use
extract.
      (3)   The amount of cannabis that may be transported by an adult use
consumer shall not exceed:
         (a)   Two and one-half ounces of adult use cannabis in any form except
adult use extract; and
         (b)   Fifteen grams of adult use cannabis in the form of adult use
extract.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780, an adult use
consumer shall not be subject to arrest, criminal prosecution, or civil penalty
for engaging in any of the activities authorized under R.C. Chapter 3780,
including:
      (1)   Obtaining, using, possessing, or transporting adult use cannabis;
      (2)   Performing conduct authorized under R.C. § 3780.29;
      (3)   Acquiring, possessing, using, purchasing, manufacturing, selling,
or transporting paraphernalia; and
      (4)   Assisting another adult use consumer, or allowing property to be
used, in any of the acts authorized by R.C. Chapter 3780.
   (D)   (1)   An individual is prohibited from operating a vehicle, motor
vehicle, streetcar, trackless trolley, bike, watercraft, or aircraft while
using adult use cannabis or while under the influence of adult use cannabis and
is subject to R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance
for any violation of this division.
      (2)   An individual is prohibited from smoking, vaporizing, or using any
other combustible adult use cannabis product while in a vehicle, motor vehicle,
streetcar, trackless trolley, bike, watercraft, or aircraft and is subject to
R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for any
violation of this division.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780, no individual under
21 years of age shall knowingly show or give false information concerning the
individual's name, age, or other identification for the purpose of purchasing
adult use cannabis from an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C. Chapter
3780.
   (F)   Nothing in R.C. Chapter 3780 is intended to permit the transfer or
sale of adult use cannabis, with or without remuneration, to an individual
under 21 years of age, or to allow an individual under 21 years of age to
purchase, possess, use, process, transport, or cultivate cannabis except where
authorized by R.C. Chapter 3796.
   (G)   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian to knowingly permit their
residence, any other private property under their control, or any vehicle,
conveyance, or watercraft under their control to be used by an invitee of the
parent's child or the guardian's ward, if the invitee is under 21 years of age,
in a manner that constitutes a violation of R.C. Chapter 3780.
      (1)   A parent or guardian is deemed to have knowingly permitted their
residence, any other private property under their control, or any vehicle,
conveyance, or watercraft under their control to be used in violation of R.C.
Chapter 3780 if they knowingly authorize or permit consumption of cannabis by
underage invitees.
      (2)   Where the residence or other property has an owner and a tenant or
lessee, the trier of fact may infer that the residence or other property is
occupied only by the tenant or lessee.
(R.C. § 3780.36)
   (H)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3796, R.C. § 2925.11
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall apply when an adult use
consumer possesses an amount of cannabis greater than the limits set forth in
division (B)(1) of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780, an adult use
consumer who uses adult use cannabis in public areas, or who violates division
(D)(2) of this section as a passenger, is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   (a)   An individual under 21 years of age who knowingly shows or
gives false information concerning the individual's name, age, or other
identification for the purpose of purchasing or otherwise obtaining adult use
cannabis from an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C. Chapter 3780 is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If, in committing a first
violation, the offender presented to an adult use dispensary licensed under
R.C. Chapter 3780 a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver's license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver's
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $250 and not
more than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more
than six months.
         (b)   On a second violation in which, for the second time, the
offender presented to an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C. Chapter 3780
a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false or fictitious
driver's license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver's license issued
by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000,
and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than six months. The
court also may impose a class seven suspension of the offender's driver's or
commercial driver's license or permit or nonresident operating privilege from
the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7). The court, in lieu of suspending
the offender's temporary instruction permit, probationary driver's license, or
driver's license, instead may order the offender to perform a determinate
number of hours of community service, with the court determining the actual
number of hours and the nature of the community service the offender shall
perform.
         (c)   On a third or subsequent violation in which, for the third or
subsequent time, the offender presented to an adult use dispensary licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3780 a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a
false or fictitious driver's license purportedly issued by any state, or a
driver's license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than
$500 nor more than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of
not more than six months. Except as provided in this division, the court also
may impose a class six suspension of the offender's driver's or commercial
driver's license or permit or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6), and the court may order that the suspension
or denial remain in effect until the offender attains the age of 21 years. The
court, in lieu of suspending the offender's temporary instruction permit,
probationary driver's license, or driver's license, instead may order the
offender to perform a determinate number of hours of community service, with
the court determining the actual number of hours and the nature of the
community service the offender shall perform.
      (4)   An individual who is under 21 years of age and who solicits another
individual to purchase adult use cannabis from an adult use dispensary licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3780 is guilty of:
         (a)   For a first violation, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; and
         (b)   For a second or subsequent violation, a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
      (5)   An employee or agent of an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C.
Chapter 3780 who knowingly sells cannabis to an individual under 21 years of
age is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   Any individual who violates R.C. § 3780.10(A), or R.C. § 3780.29
(F), is guilty of the illegal trafficking in drugs under R.C. § 2925.03 and the
illegal manufacture of drugs under R.C. § 2925.04.
      (7)   Any individual who violates division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this
section guilty of the illegal trafficking in drugs under R.C. § 2925.03.
      (8)   Any individual who violates R.C. § 3780.20(B) is guilty of illegal
dispensing of drug samples under R.C. § 2925.36 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
      (9)   (a)   An individual who violates division (G) of this section is
guilty of:
            1.   For a first violation, a misdemeanor of the third degree; and
            2.   For a second or subsequent violation, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
         (b)   If a violation of division (G) of this section directly or
indirectly results in great bodily harm or death to any individual, the
individual violating division (G) is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 3780.99)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   FLOOD HAZARD REGULATIONS
      
152.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
153.   ZONING CODE
      
154.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Building and Electrical Code adopted
   
150.02   Historic Preservation Plan adopted
   
150.03   Comprehensive Plan adopted
   
150.04   Property inspection program
Cross-reference:
   Flood hazard regulations, see
Ch. 151
   Property Maintenance Code, see
Ch. 154
   Right-of-way regulations, see
Ch. 94
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Ch. 94
   Subdivision regulations, see
Ch. 152
   Zoning Code, see
Ch. 153
§ 150.01 BUILDING AND ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The Warren County Building and Electrical Code, as may be amended from time
to time, is hereby adopted by reference as the Building and Electrical Code for
the village, and such Code shall be treated as if set forth in full herein.
(Ord. 96-103, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 150.02 HISTORIC PRESERVATION PLAN ADOPTED.
   The village’s Historic Preservation Plan developed and recommended by the
village’s Historical Preservation Board, and as may be amended from time to
time, is hereby adopted by reference and shall be treated as if set forth in
full herein.
(Ord. 96-159, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 150.03 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED.
   The Comprehensive Plan for the village as prepared by Myers, Schmalenberger,
and Meisner and having been recommended by the Planning Commission, and as may
be amended from time to time, is hereby adopted by reference and shall be
treated as if set forth in full herein.
(Ord. 96-185, passed 12-16-1996)
§ 150.04 PROPERTY INSPECTION PROGRAM.
   (A)   As part of the routine inspection services performed by the Code
Enforcement Officer, the village will offer to all properties, residential or
nonresidential, a no-cost inspection of the property and structures to assure
the safety of those dwelling or working therein, and to maintain compliance
with the zoning and building regulations currently in force within the village.
   (B) An external building inspection will be performed when any of the
following opportunities occur:
      (1)   The Code Enforcement Officer, through his or her daily duties and
observations, witnesses an obvious zoning issue on the exterior area of a
property, which may indicate a potential violation;
      (2)   The Code Enforcement Officer or a village representative receives a
complaint concerning a zoning issue, which will result in an investigation of
the property in question; or
      (3)   The Code Enforcement Officer or a village representative is
contacted by a resident or business proprietor requesting an inspection.
   (C)   When any of the above situations occur, the Code Enforcement Officer
shall visit the property in question, and complete an external inspection of
the property. If a violation exists, the Code Enforcement Officer shall issue a
violation notice or warning based on the nature of the infraction. The Code
Enforcement Officer will send the documents via certified mail to the resident
and to the record property owner (if different), along with a letter explaining
the violation and required time to comply.
The violation or warning notice will also advise that a no-cost internal
inspection is available should any notified party have a need or desire for
this service. If a resident chooses to decline the optional internal
inspection, the Code Enforcement Officer will note this accordingly in his or
her report, and no further action will be taken.
   (D)   Should there be reasonable cause to believe a violation or hazard may
exist internally due to evidence observed during an external inspection (i.e.
toxic odors, smoke, or other perceptible indicators of a potential problem),
and where there is reason to believe that such an immediate hazard or danger
exists which may have serious impact on citizen health, safety, and welfare,
the Code Enforcement Officer may attempt to enter and inspect the property
immediately. If the resident refuses to permit the inspection at that time, the
Code Enforcement Officer will notify the resident and property owner (if
different) of the legal actions which may be taken to facilitate the required
inspection, and shall consult with the Village Manager and the Law Director
about the advisability of pursuing such action.
   (E)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall be provided with, and, at all times
while engaged in the performance of his or her duties, shall display proper
identification.
   (F)   Any and all actions taken by the Code Enforcement Officer in the
fulfillment of daily duties will be conducted in full compliance with and under
the limitations of this code and all ordinances and resolutions which govern
the village, the BOCA Property Maintenance Code of 1996 as adopted by the
village, and applicable state and federal law.
   (G)   This program shall apply to all properties within the village limits
and boundaries. This program is intended to ensure the public health, safety,
and welfare in all existing structures, residential and nonresidential, and on
all existing premises in the village.
   (H)   This program will be managed and administered under the auspices of
the Village Manager as provided in the BOCA Property Maintenance Code of 1996
as adopted by the village, and as directed by Council in these guidelines.
(Ord. 2001-018, passed 4-2-2001)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD HAZARD REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Statutory authorization
   
151.002   Findings of fact
   
151.003   Statement of purpose
   
151.004   Methods of reducing flood loss
   
151.005   Definitions
   
151.006   Lands to which these regulations apply
   
151.007   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
151.008   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.009   Interpretation
   
151.010   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
151.025   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
   
151.026   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
151.027   Floodplain development permits
   
151.028   Application required
   
151.029   Review and approval of a floodplain development permit application
   
151.030   Inspections
   
151.031   Post-construction certifications required
   
151.032   Revoking a floodplain development permit
   
151.033   Exemption from filing a development permit
   
151.034   Map maintenance activities
   
151.035   Data use and flood map interpretation
   
151.036   Substantial damage determinations
Use and Development Standards for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.050   Use regulations
   
151.051   Water and wastewater systems
   
151.052   Subdivisions and large developments
   
151.053   Residential structures
   
151.054   Nonresidential structures
   
151.055   Accessory structures
   
151.056   Recreational vehicles
   
151.057   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks
   
151.058   Assurance of flood carrying capacity
Appeals and Variances
   
151.070   Appeals Board established
   
151.071   Powers and duties
   
151.072   Appeals
   
151.073   Variances
   
151.074   Procedure at hearings
   
151.075   Appeal to the court
Enforcement
   
151.090   Compliance required
   
151.091   Notice of violation
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   Article XVIII, § 3, of the Ohio Constitution grants municipalities the legal
authority to adopt land use and control measures for promoting the health,
safety, and general welfare of its citizens. Therefore, the Village Council
does ordain as follows.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The village has special flood hazard areas that are subject to periodic
inundation which may result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base.
Additionally, structures that are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or
otherwise protected from flood damage also contribute to the flood loss. In
order to minimize the threat of such damages and to achieve the purposes
hereinafter set forth, these regulations are adopted.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of these regulations to promote the public health, safety,
and general welfare, and to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains; electric, telephone, and sewer lines; streets; and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the proper use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to protect property and
minimize future flood blight areas;
   (G)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions;
   (H)   Minimize the impact of development on adjacent properties within and
near flood-prone areas;
   (I)   Ensure that the flood storage and conveyance functions of the
floodplain are maintained;
   (J)   Minimize the impact of development on the natural, beneficial values
of the floodplain;
   (K)   Prevent floodplain uses that are either hazardous or environmentally
incompatible; and
   (L)   Meet community participation requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.004 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSS.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, these regulations include methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood
waters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, excavating, and other
development which may increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers, which
will unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards in
other areas.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure on the same lot with, and of a nature
customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal structure.
   APPEAL. A request for review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of these regulations or a request for a
variance.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. The BASE FLOOD may also be referred to as the 1% chance annual
flood or 100-year flood.
   BASE (100-YEAR) FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The water surface elevation of the
base flood in relation to a specified datum, usually the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum of 1929 or the North American Vertical Datum of 1988, and
usually expressed in feet mean sea level (MSL). In Zone AO areas, the BASE
FLOOD ELEVATION is the natural grade elevation plus the depth number (from one
to three feet).
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ENCLOSURE BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR. See LOWEST FLOOR.
   EXECUTIVE ORDER 11988 (FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT). Issued by President Carter in
1977, this order requires that no federally assisted activities be conducted in
or have the potential to affect identified special flood hazard areas, unless
there is no practicable alternative.
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA). The agency with the overall
responsibility for administering the National Flood Insurance Program.
   FILL. A deposit of earth material placed by artificial or unnatural means.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). Usually the initial map, produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, or U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, for a community depicting approximate special flood hazard areas.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development has delineated the areas of special flood hazard.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RISK ZONES. Zone designations on FHBMs and FIRMs that
indicate the magnitude of the flood hazard in specific areas of a community.
Following are the zone definitions:
      (1)   ZONE A. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood;
base flood elevations are not determined.
      (2)   ZONES AL-30 AND ZONE AE. Special flood hazard areas inundated by
the 100-year flood; base flood elevations are determined.
      (3)   ZONE AO. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood; with flood depths of one to three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping
terrain); average depths are determined.
      (4)   ZONE AH. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood; flood depths of one to three feet (usually areas of ponding); base flood
elevations are determined.
      (5)   ZONE A99. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood to be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection
system under construction; no base flood elevations are determined.
      (6)   ZONE B AND ZONE X (SHADED). Areas of 500-year flood; areas subject
to the 100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot or with
contributing drainage area less than one square mile; and areas protected by
levees from the base flood.
      (7)   ZONE C AND ZONE X (UNSHADED). Areas determined to be outside the
500-year floodplain.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report in which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development has provided flood profiles, floodway boundaries (sometimes shown
on flood boundary and floodway maps), and the water surface elevations of the
base flood.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The base flood elevation, in areas where
no base flood elevations exist from any authoritative source, the flood
protection elevation can be historical flood elevations, or base flood
elevations determined and/or approved by the Floodplain Administrator.
   FLOODWAY. 
      (1)   The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that have been reserved in order to pass the base flood discharge. A
FLOODWAY is typically determined through a hydraulic and hydrologic engineering
analysis such that the cumulative increase in the water surface elevation of
the base flood discharge is no more than a designated height. In no case shall
the designated height be more than one foot at any point within the community.
      (2)   The FLOODWAY is an extremely hazardous area, and is usually
characterized by any of the following: Moderate to high velocity flood waters,
high potential for debris and projectile impacts, and moderate to high erosion
forces.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for the purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams, and the
hydrologic effect of urbanization in a watershed.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listings on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on the state’s inventory of historic places
maintained by the state’s Historic Preservation Office; or
      (4)   Individually listed on the inventory of historic places maintained
by village’s Historical Preservation Board, which program is certified by the
state’s Historic Preservation Office.
   HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING ANALYSIS. An analysis performed by a
professional engineer, registered in the State of Ohio, in accordance with
standard engineering practices as accepted by FEMA, used to determine flood
elevations and/or floodway boundaries.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective flood insurance rate maps, flood boundary and
floodway maps, and flood insurance studies. LOMCs are broken down into the
following categories.
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated special flood
hazard area. A LOMA amends the current effective flood insurance rate map and
establishes that a specific property is not located in a special flood hazard
area.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to human-made changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features. One
common type of LOMR, a LOMR-F, is a determination concerning whether a
structure or parcel has been elevated by fill above the base flood elevation
and is, therefore, excluded from the special flood hazard area.
      (3)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A formal review and
comment by FEMA as to whether a proposed project complies with the minimum
National Flood Insurance Program floodplain management criteria. A CLOMR does
not amend or revise effective flood insurance rate maps, flood boundary and
floodway maps, or flood insurance studies.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement) of a structure. This definition excludes an “enclosure below the
lowest floor” which is an unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure usable solely
for parking of vehicles, building access, or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, provided that such enclosure is built in accordance with the
applicable design requirements specified in these regulations for enclosures
below the lowest floor.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”. For the purposes
of these regulations, a MANUFACTURED HOME includes manufactured homes and
mobile homes as defined in R.C. §§ 4781.26 et seq.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A manufactured home park means any tract of land
upon which three or more manufactured homes, used for habitation are parked,
either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and includes any roadway,
building, structure, vehicle, or enclosure used or intended for use as part of
the facilities of the park. A tract of land that is subdivided and the
individual lots are not for rent or rented, but are for sale or sold for the
purpose of installation of manufactured homes on the lots, is not a
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK, even though three or more manufactured homes are parked
thereon, if the roadways are dedicated to the local government authority.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The NFIP is a federal program
enabling property owners in participating communities to purchase insurance
protection against losses from flooding. This insurance is designed to provide
an insurance alternative to disaster assistance to meet the escalating costs of
repairing damage to buildings and their contents caused by floods.
Participation in the NFIP is based on an agreement between local communities
and the federal government that states if a community will adopt and enforce
floodplain management regulations to reduce future flood risks to all
development in special flood hazard areas, the federal government will make
flood insurance available within the community as a financial protection
against flood loss.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the “start of construction” commenced
on or after the initial effective date of the village’s flood insurance rate
map, August 1, 1980, and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
   PERSON. Includes any individual or group of individuals, corporation,
partnership, association, or any other entity, including state and local
governments and agencies. An agency is further defined in the R.C. § 111.15 as
any governmental entity of the state and includes, but is not limited to, any
board, department, division, commission, bureau, society, council, institution,
state college or university, community college district, technical college
district, or state community college. “Agency” does not include the general
assembly, the controlling board, the adjutant general’s department, or any
court.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self- propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ARCHITECT. A person registered to engage in the
practice of architecture under the provisions of R.C. §§ 4703.01 to 4703.19.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person registered as a professional
engineer under R.C. Chapter 4733.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL SURVEYOR. A person registered as a professional
surveyor under R.C. Chapter 4733.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Also known as AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD, it
is the land in the floodplain subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in
any given year. SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS are designated by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency on flood insurance rate maps, flood insurance
studies, flood boundary and floodway maps and flood hazard boundary maps as
Zones A, AE, AH, AO, Al-30, and A99. SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS may also refer
to areas that are flood-prone and designated from other federal, state, or
local sources of data including, but not limited to, historical flood
information reflecting high water marks, previous flood inundation areas, and
flood-prone soils associated with a watercourse.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual START means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation
of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of
excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and
filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor
does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or
the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of a building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, manufactured home, or gas or liquid
storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. 
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement
of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of
the structure before the “start of construction” of the improvement. This term
includes structures, which have incurred “substantial damage”, regardless of
the actual repair work performed.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include:
         (a)   Any improvement to a structure that is considered “new
construction”;
         (b)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified prior to the application for a development permit by
the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
         (c)   Any alteration of a “historic structure”, provided that the
alteration would not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the standards of these regulations
consistent with the variance conditions herein.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with these regulations.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.006 LANDS TO WHICH THESE REGULATIONS APPLY.
   These regulations shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within
the jurisdiction of the village as identified in §
151.007, including any additional areas of special flood hazard annexed by the
village.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.007 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   (A)   For the purposes of these regulations, the following studies and/or
maps are adopted:
      (1)   “Flood Insurance Study Warren County, Ohio and Incorporated Areas”
and “Flood Insurance Rate Map Warren County, Ohio and Incorporated Areas” both
effective December 17, 2010.
      (2)   Any other studies and/or maps which may be relied upon for
establishment of the flood protection elevation, delineation of the 100-year
floodplain, floodways, or delineation of other areas of special flood hazard as
determined by FEMA, or authorized officials representing the village.
      (3)   Any hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis authored by a
registered professional engineer in the State of Ohio which has been approved
by the village as required by §
151.052.
   (B)   Any revisions to the aforementioned maps and/or studies are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations. Such maps
and/or studies are on file at the village’s Government Center, located at 1400
Lytle Road, Waynesville, Ohio 45068.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.008 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   These regulations are not intended to repeal any existing ordinances
including subdivision regulations, zoning or building codes. In the event of a
conflict between these regulations and any other ordinance, the more
restrictive shall be followed. These regulations shall not impair any deed
restriction, covenant, or easement, but the land subject to such interests
shall also be governed by the regulations.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.009 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of these regulations, all provisions
shall be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes. Where a provision of these regulations may be in conflict with
a state or federal law, such state or federal law shall take precedence over
these regulations.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.010 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by these regulations is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. These regulations do
not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. These regulations
shall not create liability on the part of the village, any officer or employee
thereof, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency for any flood damage that
results from reliance on these regulations or any administrative decision
lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.025 DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Village Manager is hereby appointed to administer and implement these
regulations and is referred to herein as the Floodplain Administrator. This
responsibility may be delegated partially or in full by the Village Manager, as
dictated in § 6.09 of the Village Charter.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.026 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
   (A)   Evaluate applications for permits to develop in special flood hazard
areas;
   (B)   Interpret floodplain boundaries and provide flood hazard and flood
protection elevation information;
   (C)   Issue permits to develop in special flood hazard areas when the
provisions of these regulations have been met, or refuse to issue the same in
the event of noncompliance;
   (D)   Inspect buildings and lands to determine whether any violations of
these regulations have been committed;
   (E)   Make and permanently keep all records for public inspection necessary
for the administration of these regulations including flood insurance rate
maps, letters of map amendment and revision, records of issuance and denial of
permits to develop in special flood hazard areas, determinations of whether
development is in or out of special flood hazard areas for the purpose of
issuing floodplain development permits, elevation certificates, variances, and
records of enforcement actions taken for violations of these regulations;
   (F)   Enforce the provisions of these regulations;
   (G)   Provide information, testimony, or other evidence as needed during
variance hearings;
   (H)   Coordinate map maintenance activities and FEMA follow-up; and
   (I)   Conduct substantial damage determinations to determine whether
existing structures, damaged from any source and in special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA, must meet the development standards of these regulations.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.027 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to begin construction or other
development activity, including, but not limited to: filling; grading;
construction; alteration, remodeling, or expanding any structure; or alteration
of any watercourse wholly within, partially within, or in contact with any
identified special flood hazard area, as established in §
151.007, until a floodplain development permit is obtained from the Floodplain
Administrator. Such floodplain development permit shall show that the proposed
development activity is in conformity with the provisions of these regulations.
No such permit shall be issued by the Floodplain Administrator until the
requirements of these regulations have been met.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.028 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   An application for a floodplain development permit shall be
required for all development activities located wholly within, partially
within, or in contact with an identified special flood hazard area.
      (2)   Such application shall be made by the owner of the property or his
or her authorized agent, herein referred to as the applicant, prior to the
actual commencement of such construction on a form furnished for that purpose.
      (3)   Where it is unclear whether a development site is in a special
flood hazard area, the Floodplain Administrator may require an application for
a floodplain development permit to determine the development’s location.
   (B)   Such applications shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Site plans drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions,
and topography of the area in question; the location of existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing;
      (2)   Elevation of the existing, natural ground where structures are
proposed;
      (3)   Elevation of the lowest floor, including basement, of all proposed
structures;
      (4)   Such other material and information as may be requested by the
Floodplain Administrator to determine conformance with, and provide enforcement
of these regulations;
      (5)   Technical analyses conducted by the appropriate design professional
registered in the State of Ohio and submitted with an application for a
floodplain development permit when applicable:
         (a)   Flood-proofing certification for nonresidential flood-proofed
structure as required in §
151.054;
         (b)   Certification that fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor
of a structure not meeting the design requirements of §
151.053(E) are designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces;
         (c)   Description of any watercourse alteration or relocation that the
flood carrying capacity of the watercourse will not be diminished, and
maintenance assurances as required in §
151.058(D);
         (d)   A hydrologic and hydraulic analysis demonstrating that the
cumulative effect of proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood by more than one foot in special flood hazard areas
where the Federal Emergency Management Agency has provided base flood
elevations but no floodway as required by §
151.058(C);
         (e)   A hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis showing impact
of any development on flood heights in an identified floodway as required by §
151.058(B); and/or
         (f)   Generation of base flood elevation(s) for subdivision and large-
scale developments as required by §
151.052.
      (6)   A floodplain development permit application fee set by the schedule
of fees adopted by the Village Council.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.029 REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF A FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Review.
      (1)   After receipt of a complete application, the Floodplain
Administrator shall review the application to ensure that the standards of
these regulations have been met. No floodplain development permit application
shall be reviewed until all information required in §
151.028 has been received by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator shall review all floodplain
development permit applications to assure that all necessary permits have been
received from those federal, state, or local governmental agencies from which
prior approval is required. The applicant shall be responsible for obtaining
such permits as required, including permits issued by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers under § 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 403 and §
404 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1344, and the Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency under § 401 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1341.
   (B)   Approval. Within 30 days after the receipt of a complete application,
the Floodplain Administrator shall either approve or disapprove the
application. If an application is approved, a floodplain development permit
shall be issued. All floodplain development permits shall be conditional upon
the commencement of work within one year. A floodplain development permit shall
expire one year after issuance unless the permitted activity has been
substantially begun and is thereafter pursued to completion.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.030 INSPECTIONS.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall make periodic inspections at appropriate
times throughout the period of construction in order to monitor compliance with
permit conditions.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.031 POST-CONSTRUCTION CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   The following as built certifications are required after a floodplain
development permit has been issued.
   (A)   For new or substantially improved residential structures, or
nonresidential structures that have been elevated, the applicant shall have a
Federal Emergency Management Agency elevation certificate completed by a
registered surveyor to record as built elevation data. For elevated structures
in Zone A and Zone AO areas without a base flood elevation, the elevation
certificate may be completed by the property owner or owner’s representative.
   (B)   For all development activities subject to the standards of §
151.034(B), a letter of map revision.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.032 REVOKING A FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be revocable, if among other things,
the actual development activity does not conform to the terms of the
application and permit granted thereon. In the event of the revocation of a
permit, an appeal may be taken to the Appeals Board (Variance Board for
counties) in accordance with §§
151.070 through
151.075.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.033 EXEMPTION FROM FILING A DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   An application for a floodplain development permit shall not be
required for:
      (1)   Maintenance work such as roofing, painting, and basement sealing,
or for small nonstructural development activities (except for filling and
grading) valued at less than $5,000;
      (2)   Development activities in an existing or proposed manufactured home
park that are under the authority of the state’s Department of Health and
subject to the flood damage reduction provisions of the O.A.C. § 3701;
      (3)   Major utility facilities permitted by the state’s Power Siting
Board under R.C. § 4906;
      (4)   Hazardous waste disposal facilities permitted by the Hazardous
Waste Siting Board under R.C. § 3734; or
      (5)   Development activities undertaken by a federal agency and which are
subject to Federal Executive Order 11988 - Floodplain Management.
   (B)   Any proposed action exempt from filing for a floodplain development
permit is also exempt from the standards of these regulations.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.034 MAP MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Map maintenance. To meet National Flood Insurance Program minimum
requirements to have flood data reviewed and approved by FEMA, and to ensure
that village flood maps, studies, and other data identified in §
151.007 accurately represent flooding conditions so appropriate floodplain
management criteria are based on current data, the following map maintenance
activities are identified.
   (B)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
      (1)   For all development proposals that impact floodway delineations or
base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that technical data
reflecting such changes be submitted to FEMA within six months of the date such
information becomes available. These development proposals include:
         (a)   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
         (b)   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts; and
         (d)   Subdivision or large scale development proposals requiring the
establishment of base flood elevations in accordance with §
151.052.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have technical data,
required in accordance with this division (B), prepared in a format required
for a conditional letter of map revision or letter of map revision, and
submitted to FEMA. Submittal and processing fees for these map revisions shall
be the responsibility of the applicant.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require a conditional letter of
map revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for:
         (a)   Proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base flood
elevation; and
         (b)   Proposed development which increases the base flood elevation by
more than one foot in areas where FEMA has provided base flood elevations but
no floodway.
      (4)   Floodplain development permits issued by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a letter of map
revision from FEMA for any development proposal subject to division (B)(1)
above.
   (C)   Right to submit new technical data. The Floodplain Administrator may
request changes to any of the information shown on an effective map that does
not impact floodplain or floodway delineations or base flood elevations, such
as labeling or planimetric details. Such a submission shall include appropriate
supporting documentation made in writing by the Village Manager, and may be
submitted at any time.
   (D)   Annexation/detachment. Upon occurrence, the Floodplain Administrator
shall notify FEMA in writing whenever the boundaries of the village have been
modified by annexation or the community has assumed authority over an area, or
no longer has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations
for a particular area. In order that the flood insurance rate map accurately
represents the village boundaries, include within such notification a copy of a
map of the village suitable for reproduction, clearly showing the new corporate
limits or the new area for which the village has assumed or relinquished
floodplain management regulatory authority.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.035 DATA USE AND FLOOD MAP INTERPRETATION.
   The following guidelines shall apply to the use and interpretation of maps
and other data showing areas of special flood hazard.
   (A)   In areas where FEMA has not identified special flood hazard areas, or
in FEMA identified special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation and
floodway data have not been identified, the Floodplain Administrator shall
review and reasonably utilize any other flood hazard data available from a
federal, state, or other source.
   (B)   Base flood elevations and floodway boundaries produced on FEMA flood
maps and studies shall take precedence over base flood elevations and floodway
boundaries by any other source that reflect a reduced floodway width and/or
lower base flood elevations. Other sources of data, showing increased base
flood elevations and/or larger floodway areas than are shown on FEMA flood maps
and studies, shall be reasonably used by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   When preliminary flood insurance rate maps and/or flood insurance
study have been provided by FEMA:
      (1)   Upon the issuance of a letter of final determination by the FEMA,
the preliminary flood hazard data shall be used and replace all previously
existing flood hazard data provided from FEMA for the purposes of administering
these regulations; and
      (2)   Prior to the issuance of a letter of final determination by FEMA,
the use of preliminary flood hazard data shall only be required where no base
flood elevations and/or floodway areas exist or where the preliminary base
flood elevations or floodway area exceed the base flood elevations and/or
floodway widths in existing flood hazard data provided from FEMA. Such
preliminary data may be subject to change and/or appeal to FEMA.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall make interpretations, where needed,
as to the exact location of the flood boundaries and areas of special flood
hazard. A person contesting the determination of the location of the boundary
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as
provided in §§
151.070 through
151.075.
   (E)   Where a map boundary showing an area of special flood hazard and field
elevations disagree, the base flood elevations or flood protection elevations
(as found on an elevation profile, floodway data table, established high water
marks, and the like) shall prevail.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.036 SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   Damages to structures may result from a variety of causes including
flood, tornado, wind, heavy snow, fire, and the like. After such a damage
event, the Floodplain Administrator shall:
      (1)   Determine whether damaged structures are located in special flood
hazard areas;
      (2)   Conduct substantial damage determinations for damaged structures
located in special flood hazard areas; and
      (3)   Make reasonable attempt to notify owners of substantially damaged
structures of the need to obtain a floodplain development permit prior to
repair, rehabilitation, or reconstruction.
   (B)   Additionally, the Floodplain Administrator may implement other
measures to assist with the substantial damage determination and subsequent
repair process. These measures include issuing press releases, public service
announcements, and other public information materials related to the floodplain
development permits and repair of damaged structures; coordinating with other
federal, state, and local agencies to assist with substantial damage
determinations; providing owners of damaged structures materials and other
information related to the proper repair of damaged structures in special flood
hazard areas; and assist owners of substantially damaged structures with
increased cost of compliance insurance claims.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
USE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.050 USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Permitted uses. All uses not otherwise prohibited in this section or
any other applicable land use regulation adopted by the village are allowed,
provided they meet the provisions of these regulations.
   (B)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Private water supply systems in all special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA, permitted under R.C. § 3701.
      (2)   Infectious waste treatment facilities in all special flood hazard
areas, permitted under R.C. § 3734.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.051 WATER AND WASTEWATER SYSTEMS.
   The following standards apply to all water supply, sanitary sewerage, and
waste disposal systems not otherwise regulated by the Ohio Revised Code.
   (A)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems.
   (B)   New and replacement sanitary sewerage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters.
   (C)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.052 SUBDIVISIONS AND LARGE DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage and are subject to all applicable standards in these
regulations.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage.
   (D)   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data
are not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and other proposed developments containing at least 50 lots or five
acres, whichever is less.
   (E)   The applicant shall meet the requirement to submit technical data to
FEMA in §
151.034(B)(1)(d) when a hydrologic and hydraulic analysis is completed that
generates base flood elevations as required by division (D) above.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.053 RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
Where a structure, including its foundation members, is elevated on fill to or
above the base flood elevation, the requirements for anchoring and construction
materials resistant to flood damage are satisfied (division (B) below).
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with methods and materials resistant to flood damage.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or elevated so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure, including manufactured homes, shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to or above the flood protection elevation.
   (E)   New construction and substantial improvements, including manufactured
homes, that do not have basements and that are elevated to the flood protection
elevation using pilings, columns, posts, or solid foundation perimeter walls
with openings sufficient to allow unimpeded movement of flood waters may have
an enclosure below the lowest floor provided the enclosure meets the following
standards:
      (1)   Be used only for the parking of vehicles, building access, or
storage;
      (2)   Be designed and certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls
by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters; or
      (3)   Have a minimum of two openings on different walls having a total
net area not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area,
and the bottom of all such openings being no higher than one foot above grade.
The openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other coverings or
devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
   (F)   Manufactured homes shall be affixed to a permanent foundation and
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.
   (G)   Repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination
that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s
continued designation as a historic structure and is the minimum necessary to
preserve the historic character and design of the structure, shall be exempt
from the development standards of this section.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.054 NONRESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial, or other nonresidential structure shall meet the requirements of §
151.053(A), (C), (E), and (G).
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial, or other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated to or above the level of the flood
protection elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall meet all of the following standards:
      (1)   Be dry flood-proofed so that the structure is water-tight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water to the level of the
flood protection elevation;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
      (3)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect,
through the use of a Federal Emergency Management Agency flood-proofing
certificate, that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with
divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) of this section.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.055 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   Relief to the elevation or dry flood-proofing standards may be granted for
accessory structures containing no more than 600 square feet. Such structures
must meet all of the following standards:
   (A)   They shall not be used for human habitation;
   (B)   They shall be constructed of flood-resistant materials;
   (C)   They shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
   (D)   They shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
   (E)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall be
elevated or flood-proofed to or above the level of the flood protection
elevation; and
   (F)   They shall meet the opening requirements of §
151.053(E)(3).
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.056 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Recreational vehicles must meet at least one of the following standards:
   (A)   They shall not be located on sites in special flood hazard areas for
more than 180 days;
   (B)   They must be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
   (C)   They must meet all standards of §
151.053.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.057 ABOVE GROUND GAS OR LIQUID STORAGE TANKS.
   All above ground gas or liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent
flotation or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic
loads.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.058 ASSURANCE OF FLOOD CARRYING CAPACITY.
   (A)   Additional standards. Pursuant to the purpose and methods of reducing
flood damage stated in these regulations, the following additional standards
are adopted to assure that the reduction of the flood carrying capacity of
watercourses is minimized.
   (B)   Development in floodways.
      (1)   In floodway areas, development shall cause no increase in flood
levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge. Prior to issuance of
a floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a hydrologic and
hydraulic analysis, conducted by a registered professional engineer,
demonstrating that the proposed development would not result in any increase in
the base flood elevation; or
      (2)   Development in floodway areas causing increases in the base flood
elevation may be permitted provided all of the following are completed by the
applicant:
         (a)   Meet the requirements to submit technical data in §
151.034(B);
         (b)   An evaluation of alternatives, which would not result in
increased base flood elevations and an explanation why these alternatives are
not feasible;
         (c)   Certification that no structures are located in areas that would
be impacted by the increased base flood elevation;
         (d)   Documentation of individual legal notices to all impacted
property owners within and outside the community, explaining the impact of the
proposed action on their property; and
         (e)   Concurrence of the Village Manager and the Chief Executive
Officer of any other communities impacted by the proposed actions.
   (C)   Development in riverine areas with base flood elevations but no
floodways.
      (1)   In riverine special flood hazard areas identified by FEMA where
base flood elevation data are provided but no floodways have been designated,
the cumulative effect of any proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, shall not increase the base flood
elevation more than one foot at any point. Prior to issuance of a floodplain
development permit, the applicant must submit a hydrologic and hydraulic
analysis, conducted by a registered professional engineer, demonstrating that
this standard has been met; or
      (2)   Development in riverine special flood hazard areas identified by
FEMA where base flood elevation data are provided but no floodways have been
designated causing more than one foot increase in the base flood elevation may
be permitted provided all of the following are completed by the applicant:
         (a)   An evaluation of alternatives which would result in an increase
of one foot or less of the base flood elevation and an explanation why these
alternatives are not feasible; and
         (b)   Division (B)(2)(a) and (B)(2)(c) through (B)(2)(e).
   (D)   Alterations of a watercourse. For the purpose of these regulations, a
watercourse is altered when any change occurs within its banks. The extent of
the banks shall be established by a field determination of the “bankfull
stage”. The field determination of “bankfull stage” shall be based on methods
presented in Chapter 7 of the USDA Forest Service General Technical Report RM-
245, Stream Channel Reference Sites: An Illustrated Guide to Field Technique or
other applicable publication available from a federal, state, or other
authoritative source. For all proposed developments that alter a watercourse,
the following standards apply:
      (1)   The bankfull flood carrying capacity of the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse shall not be diminished. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a description of the
extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of the
proposed development, and certification by a registered professional engineer
that the bankfull flood carrying capacity of the watercourse will not be
diminished.
      (2)   Adjacent communities, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and the
state’s Department of Natural Resources, Division of Water, must be notified
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse. Evidence of such
notification must be submitted to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      (3)   The applicant shall be responsible for providing the necessary
maintenance for the altered or relocated portion of said watercourse so that
the flood carrying capacity will not be diminished. The Floodplain
Administrator may require the permit holder to enter into an agreement with the
village specifying the maintenance responsibilities. If an agreement is
required, it shall be made a condition of the floodplain development permit.
      (4)   The applicant shall meet the requirements to submit technical data
in §
151.034(B)(1)(c) when an alteration of a watercourse results in the relocation
or elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
APPEALS AND VARIANCES
§ 151.070 APPEALS BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals, appointed by Village Council as dictated
by Village Charter, shall hear and take action on any decision by the Village
Manager or his or her designee regarding zoning for which the petitioner has
appropriately filed with the village in application of the appeal.
   (B)   A Chairperson shall be elected by the members of the Appeals Board.
Meetings of the Appeals Board shall be held as needed and shall be held at the
call of the Chairperson, or in his or her absence, the acting Chairperson. All
meetings of the Appeals Board shall be open to the public except that the Board
may deliberate in executive sessions as part of quasi-judicial hearings in
accordance with law. The Appeals Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings
showing the vote of each member upon each question and shall keep records of
all official actions. Records of the Appeals Board shall be kept and filed at
the village’s Government Center.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.071 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Appeals Board shall:
   (A)   Hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in any
order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the Floodplain
Administrator in the administration or enforcement of these regulations; and
   (B)   Authorize variances in accordance with §
151.073.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.072 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person affected by any notice and order, or other official action
of the Floodplain Administrator may request and shall be granted a hearing on
the matter before the Appeals Board, provided that such person shall file,
within ten days of the date of such notice and order, or other official action,
a brief statement of the grounds for such hearing or for the mitigation of any
item appearing on any order of the Floodplain Administrator’s decision. Such
appeal shall be in writing, signed by the applicant, and be filed with the
Floodplain Administrator. Upon receipt of the appeal, the Floodplain
Administrator shall transmit said notice and all pertinent information on which
the Floodplain Administrator’s decision was made to the Appeals Board.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the Appeals Board shall fix a
reasonable time for the appeal, give notice in writing to parties in interest,
and decide the appeal within a reasonable time after it is submitted.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.073 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Authority. Any person believing that the use and development standards
of these regulations would result in unnecessary hardship may file an
application for a variance. The Appeals Board shall have the power to
authorize, in specific cases, such variances from the standards of these
regulations, not inconsistent with federal regulations, as will not be contrary
to the public interest where, owning to special conditions of the lot or
parcel, a literal enforcement of the provisions of these regulations would
result in unnecessary hardship.
   (B)   Application for a variance.
      (1)   Any owner, or agent thereof, of property for which a variance is
sought shall make an application for a variance by filing it with the
Floodplain Administrator, who upon receipt of the variance shall transmit it to
the Appeals Board.
      (2)   Such application at a minimum shall contain the following
information: name, address, and telephone number of the applicant; legal
description of the property; parcel map; description of the existing use;
description of the proposed use; location of the floodplain; description of the
variance sought; and reason for the variance request.
      (3)   All applications for a variance shall be accompanied by a variance
application fee set in the schedule of fees adopted by the village.
   (C)   Notice for public hearing. The Appeals Board shall schedule and hold a
public hearing within 45 days after the receipt of an application for a
variance from the Floodplain Administrator. Prior to the hearing, a notice of
such hearing shall be given in one or more newspapers of general circulation in
the community at least ten days before the date of the hearing.
   (D)   Public hearing.
      (1)   At such hearing, the applicant shall present such statements and
evidence as the Appeals Board requires. In considering such variance
applications, the Appeals Board shall consider and make findings of fact on all
evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other sections of
these regulations and the following factors:
         (a)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (b)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         (e)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
that are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
         (f)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (j)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         (k)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship due to the physical characteristics of the property.
Increased cost or inconvenience of meeting the requirements of these
regulations does not constitute an exceptional hardship to the applicant;
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights beyond that which is allowed in these regulations;
additional threats to public safety; extraordinary public expense, nuisances,
fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws;
         (d)   A determination that the structure or other development is
protected by methods to minimize flood damages; and
         (e)   A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
      (3)   Upon consideration of the above factors and the purposes of these
regulations, the Appeals Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of these regulations.
   (E)   Other conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (2)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing items in division (D)(1)(a)-(D)(1)(k) of
this section have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-
half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
      (3)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation and the cost of flood insurance will
be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest floor
elevation.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.074 PROCEDURE AT HEARINGS.
   (A)   All testimony shall be given under oath.
   (B)   A complete record of the proceedings shall be kept, except
confidential deliberations of the Board, but including all documents presented
and a verbatim record of the testimony of all witnesses.
   (C)   The applicant shall proceed first to present evidence and testimony in
support of the appeal or variance.
   (D)   The Administrator may present evidence or testimony in opposition to
the appeal or variance.
   (E)   All witnesses shall be subject to cross-examination by the adverse
party or their counsel.
   (F)   Evidence that is not admitted may be proffered and shall become part
of the record for appeal.
   (G)   The Board shall issue subpoenas upon written request for the
attendance of witnesses. A reasonable deposit to cover the cost of issuance and
service shall be collected in advance.
   (H)   The Board shall prepare conclusions of fact supporting its decision.
The decision may be announced at the conclusion of the hearing and thereafter
issued in writing or the decision may be issued in writing within a reasonable
time after the hearing.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.075 APPEAL TO THE COURT.
   Those aggrieved by the decision of the Appeals Board may appeal such
decision to the Warren County Court of Common Pleas, as provided in R.C.
Chapter 2506.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.090 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, erected, constructed,
reconstructed, repaired, extended, converted, enlarged, or altered without full
compliance with the terms of these regulations and all other applicable
regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of these regulations,
unless specifically exempted from filing for a development permit as stated in
§
151.033.
   (B)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit shall be a violation
of these regulations and shall be punishable in accordance with §
151.999.
   (C)   Floodplain development permits issued on the basis of plans and
applications approved by the Floodplain Administrator authorize only the use
and arrangement set forth in such approved plans and applications or amendments
thereto. Use, arrangement, or construction contrary to that authorized shall be
deemed a violation of these regulations and punishable in accordance with §
151.999.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.091 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever the Floodplain Administrator determines that there has been a
violation of any provision of these regulations, he or she shall give notice of
such violation to the person responsible therefor and order compliance with
these regulations as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Such notice and order shall:
      (1)   Be put in writing on an appropriate form;
      (2)   Include a list of violations, referring to the section or sections
of these regulations that have been violated, and order remedial action, which,
if taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of these regulations;
      (3)   Specify a reasonable time for performance;
      (4)   Advise the owner, operator, or occupant of the right to appeal; and
      (5)   Be served on the owner, occupant, or agent in person. However, this
notice and order shall be deemed to be properly served upon the owner,
occupant, or agent if a copy thereof is sent by registered or certified mail to
the person’s last known mailing address, residence, or place of business, and/
or a copy is posted in a conspicuous place in or on the dwelling affected.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of these regulations or failure to comply with
any of its requirements shall be deemed to be a strict liability offense, and
shall constitute a fourth-degree misdemeanor. Any person who violates these
regulations or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined or imprisoned as provided by the laws of the
village. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the village from taking such
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. The
village shall prosecute any violation of these regulations in accordance with
the penalties stated herein.
(Ord. 2010-043, passed 12-6-2010)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Title
   
152.002   Authority
   
152.003   Jurisdiction
   
152.004   Effective date
   
152.005   Purpose and intent
   
152.006   Relationship to existing subdivision ordinance
   
152.007   Relationship to comprehensive planning
   
152.008   Severability
   
152.009   Platting required
   
152.010   Conflicting ordinances
   
152.011   Definitions
Application Procedure and Approval Process
   
152.025   Application required
   
152.026   Pre-application conference
   
152.027   Submittal of preliminary plats
   
152.028   Submittal of final plats
   
152.029   Special procedures for minor subdivisions
Plat Requirements
   
152.045   Plat requirements
   
152.046   Preliminary plat requirements
   
152.047   Final plat requirements
   
152.048   Minor subdivision plats
Required Improvements
   
152.065   Required improvements; construction and material specifications;
plans
   
152.066   Monuments
   
152.067   Streets
   
152.068   Street lighting
   
152.069   Signs
   
152.070   Water
   
152.071   Sanitary sewers
   
152.072   Drainage
   
152.073   Bridges
   
152.074   Erosion and sedimentation control
   
152.075   Landscaping
   
152.076   Subdivision information signs
   
152.077   Hillside regulations
   
152.078   Public sites and open spaces
   
152.079   Sewage disposal and water supply
   
152.080   Variances and revisions
   
152.081   Easements
   
152.082   Private utilities
   
152.083   Protection of wells
   
152.084   Protection of historic properties
Bonds, Deposits, and Insurance
   
152.100   General requirements
   
152.101   Bonding requirements
   
152.102   Indemnity insurance
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.115   Administration and enforcement generally
   
152.116   Waivers
   
152.117   Plat adjustments
   
152.118   Testing
   
152.119   Vacation of plats
   
152.120   Violations and penalties
   
152.121   Appeals
   
152.122   Notices
   
152.123   Fee schedule for subdivision submittals
Cross-reference:
   Building regulations, see
Ch. 150
   Code Enforcement Officer, see §
31.02
   Comprehensive Plan adopted, see §
150.03
   Flood hazard regulations
      Generally, see
Ch. 151
      Specific regulations for subdivisions, see §
151.052
   Right-of-way regulations, see
Ch. 94
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Ch. 94
   Utilities Rules and Regulations, see
Ch. 50
   Zoning Code, see
Ch. 153
Statutory reference:
   Planning and zoning, see R.C. Chapter 713
   Subdivisions and plats, see R.C. Chapter 711
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 TITLE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known and may be designated and cited as “The
Village of Waynesville, Ohio, Subdivision Regulations”, and heretofore may be
referred to as “the Subdivision Ordinance” or “Subdivision Regulations”.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this chapter as those governing the interpretation
of the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.002 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority contained in the R.C.
Chapters 711 and 713 and the Village Charter.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.003 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall be applicable throughout the village’s planning
jurisdiction. The village’s planning jurisdiction comprises the area within the
corporate boundaries of the village and to all subdivisions which are subject
to extraterritorial jurisdiction, which the village may choose to exercise
under the provision of R.C. § 711.09.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.004 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The provisions of these subdivision regulations were adopted by Ordinance
96-106 and became effective on March 20, 1996.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.005 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish subdivision standards and
procedures for the village.
   (B)   This chapter is to guide and facilitate the orderly, beneficial growth
of the community by assuring the orderly subdivision of land and its
development, and to promote the public health, safety, convenience, comfort,
prosperity, and general welfare.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.006 RELATIONSHIP TO EXISTING SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE.
   This Subdivision Code is adopted in whole and is a replacement of the
subdivision ordinance of Waynesville of 1979, as amended.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.007 RELATIONSHIP TO COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING.
   It is the intention of the Village Council that this chapter shall implement
the subdivision policies adopted by the Village Council, as reflected in a
Comprehensive Plan, Land-Use Plan, and all other planning documents formally
adopted by the Village Council. While the Council reaffirms its commitment that
this chapter and any amendment to it be in conformity with adopted planning
policies, the Council hereby expresses its intent that neither this code nor
any amendment to it may be challenged on the basis of any alleged nonconformity
with any planning document.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
Cross-reference:
   Comprehensive plan adopted, see §
150.03
§ 152.008 SEVERABILITY.
   Each chapter, section, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase, or other
divisible part of this Subdivision Code is hereby declared to be severable and
if any such chapter, section, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase, or other
divisible part is declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court
of competent jurisdiction in a valid judgement or decree, such
unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining
chapters, sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, phrases, or other devisable
part of this chapter since the same would have been enacted without the
incorporation into this chapter of such unconstitutional or invalid chapter,
section, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase, or other devisable part.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.009 PLATTING REQUIRED.
   (A)   No land shall be subdivided except in compliance with this chapter, §
152.029, and with the provisions of the Zoning Code of the village (see
Chapter 153 of these codified ordinances).
   (B)   No land shall be subdivided within the corporate limits of the village
until:
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit plats as described in this chapter;
      (2)   The plats have been approved as provided in this chapter; and
      (3)   The approved plats are recorded in the County Record of Plats.
   (C)   No certificate of zoning compliance or certificate of occupancy shall
be issued for any parcel or plat of land which was created by subdivision after
the effective date of, and not in conformity with, the provisions of this
chapter, and no excavation of land or construction of any public or private
improvements shall take place or be commenced except in conformity with these
regulations and other applicable village codes.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.010 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   Where conflicts exist between requirements of this Subdivision Code and
other ordinances adopted by the Village Council, the most strict interpretation
as interpreted by the Village Manager shall apply and thereby supersede the
less strict requirements.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.011 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General definitions. Except where specifically defined herein, all
words used in this chapter shall carry customary meanings. Words used in the
present tense include the future tense; the plural includes the singular and
the singular includes the plural; the word “lot” includes the words “parcel”
and “plot”; the word “building” includes the word “structure”; the word “shall”
is mandatory, the word “may” is permissive, and the word “should” is preferred;
the words “used” or “occupied” include the words “intended, designed, or
arranged to be used or occupied”; the word “person” includes a firm,
association, organization, partnership, trust, company, or corporation as well
as an individual. Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to
include the feminine and neuter genders. A general term following specific
enumeration of terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless
expressly so limited.
   (B)   Specific definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AGENT. The representative of the applicant. The authority of the
representative shall be established to the satisfaction of the Village Manager.
      ALLEY. A public right-of-way not less than 20 feet or more than 30 feet
wide which affords only a secondary means of access to property abutting
thereon.
      ANSI. American National Standards Institute.
      APPLICANT. The owner or authorized representative of land proposed to be
subdivided. The authority of the representative shall be established to the
satisfaction of the Village Manager. Consent to subdivide shall be required
from the legal owner of the premises.
      ARCHITECT. An architect registered by the state.
      AS BUILT PLANS. Plans that have been revised to incorporate all changes
that occurred during construction of the project, on matte Mylar material and
magnetic data files compatible with village mapping systems.
      ASTM. American Society of Testing and Materials.
      AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC (ADT). The total traffic volume during a given time
period in whole days greater than one day and less than one year divided by the
number of days in that time period.
      AWWA. American Water Works Association.
      BLOCK. All that part of one side of a street between two intersecting
streets.
      BOND. Any form of security including cash deposit, surety bond,
collateral, property, or instrument of credit in an amount and form
satisfactory to the Village Council.
      BUFFER. Any combination of mounds, fencing, plantings, and the like,
intended to separate one land use from another.
      BUILDING. Any structure with substantial walls and roof securely affixed
to land and entirely separated on all sides from any similar structure by space
or by walls in which there are no communicating doors, windows, or similar
openings.
      CALIPER. The diameter of a tree as measured approximately four feet above
the ground.
      CERTIFICATE OF DEPOSIT. A certificate held on deposit by a financial
institution for the village until such time as the subdivider has fulfilled his
or her obligation to install the required improvements, including proper
inspection and testing, in accordance with approved plans and specifications.
      CLERK. The Clerk of Council of the village.
      COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the village.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The plan or plans made and adopted by the village as
may be amended, indicating the general locations recommended for the principal
streets, parks, public buildings, zoning districts, historic districts,
wellhead protection districts, character and extent of community development
and other physical aspects of urban and rural planning.
      CONSTRUCTION PLANS. The maps or drawings accompanying a subdivision plat
and showing the specific location and design of improvements to be installed in
a subdivision.
      COUNCIL. The Village Council of the village.
      CUT SHEET. Tabular survey information used for the purpose of
construction layout staking.
      DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per unit of land. To determine
DENSITY, divide the total number of dwelling units by the net developable site
as measured in acres. See NET DEVELOPABLE SITE.
      DEVELOPER. See APPLICANT.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate.
      DIRECTOR. The Director of Inspection and Engineering of the village, or
authorized representative.
      EASEMENT. A grant of one or more of the property rights by the property
owner to and/or for the use by the public, a corporation, or another person or
entity.
      ENGINEER, PROJECT. See ENGINEER, REGISTERED.
      ENGINEER, REGISTERED. An engineer registered by the state.
      ENGINEER, VILLAGE. The Village Engineer of the village.
      EROSION. The wearing away of the land surface by running water, wind,
ice, or other geological agents, including such processes as gravitational
creep and/or detachment and movement of soil or rock fragments by wind, water,
ice, or gravity.
      ESCROW. A deposit of cash with the village in lieu of an amount required
and still in force on a performance or maintenance bond.
      ESCROW FUND. Cash placed by the subdivider in an account to be held by a
financial institution in favor of the village to guarantee the installation of
improvements according to the provisions of this chapter.
      EXCAVATION. The removal or recovery by any means whatsoever of soil,
rock, mineral substances, or organic substances other than vegetation, from
water or land on or beneath the surface thereof, or beneath the land surface,
whether exposed or submerged, whether by mechanical or manual means.
      FINANCE DIRECTOR. The Finance Director of the village.
      FIRE CHIEF. The Fire Chief of Wayne Township Fire Department.
      FLOODPLAIN. The areas adjoining a watercourse which are expected to be
flooded as a result of a severe combination of meteorological and hydrological
conditions, as identified by Chapter 151 of these codified ordinances, as
amended (Ordinance 96-106 or its successor).
      FLOODWAY. The channel of the watercourse and those portions of the
adjoining floodplain which are reasonably required to carry and discharge the
100-year flood, as identified by Chapter 151 of these codified ordinances, as
amended (Ordinance 96-106 or its successor).
      FLOODWAY FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway,
as identified by Chapter 151 of these codified ordinances, as amended
(Ordinance 96-106 or its successor).
      FRONTAGE. The portion of a lot abutting on a dedicated right-of-way.
      GRADE. The slope of any surface specified in percentage terms.
      GRADE, ESTABLISHED STREET. The elevation of the street, established by
the Village Engineer, measured at the centerline of the street.
      GRADE, FINISHED. The elevation of the surface of the ground of any parcel
of land after construction of buildings, parking, driveways, streets, the
completion of all landscaping, and any other improvements.
      GRADE, NATURAL. The elevation of the undisturbed surface of any land.
      HILLSIDE. An area with an average slope of more than 15%.
      HISTORIC PRESERVATION BOARD. The Historic Preservation Board of the
village.
      IES. Illuminating Engineering Society.
      IMPROVEMENT, PUBLIC. Any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway, sidewalks,
pedestrian way, tree lawn, off-street parking area, lot improvement, or other
facility for which the village may ultimately assume the responsibility for
operation and maintenance or which may effect an improvement for which the
village is responsible.
      IMPROVEMENTS. Street pavement or resurfacing, curbs, gutters, sidewalks,
water lines, sewer lines, storm drains, street lights, flood control and
drainage facilities, utility lines, landscaping, grading, and other related
matters normally associated with development of raw land into building sites.
      IN-LIEU FEES. Fees paid by a private individual or party to the village
to compensate for the mandatory dedication provisions of the Subdivision Code
and the Zoning Code when the land dedication is waived by Village Council.
      INSPECTION FEE. Cost to the village of supervising construction, to be
paid by the developer.
      LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT. A landscape architect registered by the state.
      LAW DIRECTOR. The Law Director of the village.
      LETTER OF CREDIT. An irrevocable letter of credit issued by a bank in the
Central Ohio area, subject to the provisions of R.C. Chapter 1305.
      LOT. A tract, plat, or portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land
intended as a unit for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of
ownership for building development.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot located at the intersection of two or more streets.
      LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot, other than a corner lot, with frontage on
more than one street.
      LOT IMPROVEMENT. Any building, structure, place, work of art, or other
object or improvement of the land on which they are situated constituting a
physical betterment of real property, or any part of such betterment.
      LOT, INTERIOR. A lot with only one frontage on a street.
      LOT, IRREGULAR. A lot that is neither square nor rectangular.
      LOT, MINIMUM AREA. The area of a lot is computed exclusive of any portion
of the right-of- way of any public or private street.
      LOT MEASUREMENT. A lot shall be measured as follows:
         (a)   The depth of a lot shall be considered to be the distance
between the mid-points of straight lines connecting the foremost points of the
side lot lines in the front to the rearmost points of the side lot lines in the
rear. However, straight line connecting the rearmost side lot lines shall not
be less than one-half of the length of the straight line connecting the
foremost points of the side lot lines.
         (b)   The width of a lot shall be considered to be the distance
between straight lines connecting front and rear lot lines at each side of the
lot, measured at the building setback line.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the
office of the County Recorder, or a lot or parcel described by metes and
bounds, the description of which has been recorded.
      LOT, REVERSE FRONTAGE. A double frontage lot located along a collector or
arterial that derives access from an interior local street.
      MANAGER. The Village Manager of the village or an authorized
representative.
      MANDATORY LAND DEDICATION. The required dedication of private land to the
village for the purpose of providing space for park, recreation, open space,
and other public uses.
      MAP INDEX. A map supplied with street improvement plans showing the
street and storm system at a scale of one inch = 200 feet.
      MAP LOCATION. A map supplied with the plat that shows legibly, by
dimension and/or other means, the proposed subdivision and enough area beyond
the bounds of the proposed subdivision to locate and orient the subdivision and
show the relationship of the site to the community facilities that serve or
influence the property, at a scale of one inch = 1,000 feet.
      NET DEVELOPABLE SITE. The remainder of a parcel of land following the
subtraction of all areas designated for public and private streets and alleys,
open bodies of water excluding streams, creeks and ditches, and all other
dedicated rights-of-way.
      NO BUILD ZONE. An area or portion of a lot that is designated by deed not
to contain any buildings, structures, or other built improvement on a permanent
basis.
      ODOT. Ohio Department of Transportation.
      OEPA. Ohio Environmental Protection Agency.
      OFFICIAL THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The system of streets for the village as
adopted by the village, on file in the Village Clerk’s office, together with
all amendments thereto subsequently adopted.
      OFF-SITE. Any premises not located within the area of the property to be
subdivided or improved, whether or not in the same ownership of the applicant
for subdivision.
      OKI. Ohio, Kentucky, and Indiana Regional Council of Governments.
      PARK BOARD. The Park Board of the village.
      PERFORMANCE AND INDEMNITY BOND or SURETY BOND. An agreement by and
between a subdivider and a bonding company in favor of the village for the
amount of the estimated construction cost guaranteeing the completion of
physical improvements, engineering inspection and testing according to plans
and specifications within the time prescribed by subdivider’s agreement.
      PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the village.
      PLAN, IMPROVEMENT. Detailed construction drawings, maps, and other
materials depicting a proposed subdivision meeting the requirements of this
chapter.
      PLAN, SKETCH. A drawing of a proposed subdivision intended to be used as
a general indicator of how the proposed area may be subdivided, as per this
chapter.
      PLAT, FINAL. The plat of a proposed subdivision, drawn on durable
material as specified in this document and intended for recording, meeting all
the requirements of this chapter.
      PLAT, PRELIMINARY. The plat of a proposed subdivision that meets all of
the requirements of this chapter.
      REGIONAL PLANNING COMMISSION. Warren County Regional Planning Commission.
      RESERVES. Parcels of land within a subdivision set aside for future
subdivision or set aside for other purposes, as noted on the plat.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, crosswalk, walkway, bikeway, or other public improvement relating to
public travel or access.
      SEDIMENT. Solid material, both mineral and organic, that is in
suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site or origin by
surface water, and has come to rest on the earth’s surface above or below
ground level.
      SEDIMENT BASIN. A barrier, dam, or other suitable detention facility
built across an area of water flow to settle and retain sediment carried by
runoff waters.
      SETBACK, FRONT. The minimum distance between the right-of-way and a
building facing the right-of-way, as required by the Zoning Code.
      SETBACK, PLATTED. The minimum distance between the building and the
right-of-way, rear lot line, and/or side lot line as required by the Zoning
Code and shown on the recorded plat of the subdivision.
      SETBACK, REAR. The minimum distance between the rear lot line and a
building, as required by the Zoning Code.
      SETBACK, SIDE. The minimum distance between the side lot line and a
building, as required by the Zoning Code.
      SOLICITOR. The Law Director or Village Solicitor of the village.
      STREET, ARTERIAL. A street which accommodates traffic to and from the
expressways or to or through major commercial districts. Traffic volumes are
generally greater than 10,000 ADT.
      STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A local street having only one outlet and a paved
terminal for safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
      STREET, DEAD-END. A local street having only one outlet without a safe
and convenient means for reversal of traffic.
      STREET, EXPRESSWAY. A street entirely devoted to the movement of large
volumes of traffic at relatively high speeds. Access is completely controlled,
not intended to serve abutting property.
      STREET, INDUSTRIAL. A street intended to provide access to other streets
from industrial properties, generally being a volume of traffic that includes a
relatively large amount of vehicles other than passenger automobiles.
      STREET, LOCAL. A street intended to provide access to other streets from
individual properties, generally bearing a volume of traffic no greater than
800 ADT.
      STREET, MAJOR COLLECTOR. A street which carries traffic from the minor
collector system to the arterial. Traffic usually has origin and destination
within the community and does not exceed 10,000 ADT.
      STREET, MINOR COLLECTOR. A street which carries internal traffic within a
given neighborhood, connecting local streets to the major collectors or to the
arterial system and generally bearing volume of traffic no greater than 4,000
ADT.
      STRUCTURE. That which is constructed having a location on or in the
ground or attached to that having a location on or in the ground. The term
shall include buildings, outdoor seating facilities, outdoor theaters, swimming
pools, platforms, decks, tents, towers, bridges, poles, and roadside signs.
      SUBDIVIDER. See APPLICANT.
      SUBDIVIDER’S AGREEMENT. An agreement by and between a subdivider and the
village that sets forth the manner in which the subdivider agrees to proceed
with the construction of public improvements and the disposition of lots in the
subject subdivision.
      SUBDIVISION. Any or all of the following:
         (a)   The division of any parcel of land shown as a unit or as
contiguous units on the last preceding tax toll, into two or more parcels,
sites, or lots any one of which is less than five acres for the purpose,
whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership; provided, that the
division or partition of land into parcels of more than five acres not
involving any new streets or easements of access, and the sale or exchange of
parcels between adjoining lot owners, where such sale or exchange does not
create additional building sites, shall be exempted; or
         (b)   The improvement of one or more parcels of land for residential,
commercial, or industrial structures or groups of structures involving the
division or allocation of land for the opening, widening, or extension of any
street or streets except private streets serving industrial structures; the
division or allocation of land as open spaces for common use by owners,
occupants, or lease holders, or as easements for the extension and maintenance
of public sewer, water, storm drainage, or other public facilities.
(R.C. § 711.001(B))
      SUBDIVISION, MINOR. Any subdivision of less than five acres, all of the
lots of which front on an existing village street and with which there is no
new street or right-of-way required or proposed, which does not require a plat
to be approved by a planning authority according to R.C. § 711.131. Also known
as LOT SPLIT.
      SURETY. A certificate of deposit, performance bond, irrevocable letter of
credit, or cash escrow account in favor of the village designed to guarantee
the construction of required improvements.
      SURVEYOR. A surveyor registered by the state.
      TREE. Any tree, shrub, or other woody plant.
      TREE BOARD. The Tree Board of the village.
      TREE LAWN. The strip of land between the back of curb and sidewalks.
      TREE, LARGE. Any tree species having a trunk diameter of six inches or
more as measured four feet from the ground.
      TREE, SIGNIFICANT. Any individual tree that is of cultural, historical,
biological, or horticultural value as determined by the Village Council with
the advice of the Planning Commission, Village Tree Board, or Historic
Preservation Board.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Waynesville, Ohio.
      VILLAGE FINANCE DIRECTOR. The Village Finance Director of the village.
      VILLAGE CLERK. The Clerk of Council of the village.
      VILLAGE COUNCIL. The Village Council of the village.
      VILLAGE MANAGER. The Village Manager of the village or an authorized
representative.
      VILLAGE MAYOR. The Mayor of the village.
      VILLAGE SOLICITOR. The Law Director or Village Solicitor of the village.
      WCRPC. Warren County Regional Planning Commission.
      ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS. The Board of Zoning and Building Appeals of the
village.
      ZONING CODE. The Zoning Code of the village (see
Chapter 153 of these codified ordinances).
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
APPLICATION PROCEDURE AND APPROVAL PROCESS
§ 152.025 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Application for subdivision must be submitted to the Director of Inspection
and Engineering and the following procedure shall be followed with regard to
the submittal, review, and approval of subdivision plats.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.026 PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE.
   Prior to submission of a preliminary plat, the subdivider may submit to the
Director for review plans and data relative to the proposed development. This
step does not require a formal application fee or filing of the plat with the
Planning Commission.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.027 SUBMITTAL OF PRELIMINARY PLATS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall prepare and submit 15 copies of a preliminary
plat, together with the supplementary material as required by §
152.046. The plat shall be filed with the Director at least 45 days prior to
the meeting at which it is to be considered.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall review the plat and act thereon. The
Commission may approve the plat as submitted or modified, it may conditionally
approve the plat and stipulate the conditions of such approval, or it may
disapprove the plat and express the reasons therefor. The action of the
Commission shall be noted on two copies of the preliminary plat. One copy shall
be returned to the subdivider and the other retained on file by the Director.
   (C)   Approval of a preliminary plat shall not constitute approval of the
final plat and improvement plans, but rather shall be deemed an expression of
approval of the layout as a guide to preparation of the final plat.
   (D)   Review of the preliminary plat is based on conformance with present
zoning and general conformance with the improvement requirements as stipulated
in this chapter.
   (E)   Whether it is proposed to develop the tract in one phase or in
sections or stages, layout of the entire tract is required.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.028 SUBMITTAL OF FINAL PLATS.
   (A)   Final plats shall be subsequent to and substantially in conformance
with a previously approved preliminary plat. A final plat may constitute only
that portion of the project which is proposed for recording and development at
the time. Final plats shall be submitted to the Director within 12 months after
approval of the preliminary plat or such approval shall become null and void
unless an extension of time has been granted by the Planning Commission upon
showing of cause. Only one extension of time may be granted for a period not to
exceed 12 months.
   (B)   Final plats shall be prepared by a registered surveyor and 15 copies
of the plat and supporting data as required in §
152.047 shall be submitted to the Director at least 45 days prior to the
meeting at which it is to be considered.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall, within a period of time, not longer
than 90 days from the receipt of the final plat containing all revisions as
required by the Planning Commission and the village staff, review same and
recommend either approval, approval with conditions, or disapproval. The plat
together with the Commission’s recommendation shall then be immediately
forwarded to the Village Council, and heard by the Village Council within 60
days of receipt of the plat as reviewed by the Planning Commission.
   (D)   (1)   Before any plat is approved by the Planning Commission, the
developer shall give notice to the State Director of Transportation of the
proposed improvements and obtain a letter from the State Director of
Transportation stating that this property is not within 300 feet of the
centerline of a proposed new highway, or within 500 feet of the centerline of a
highway for which changes are proposed, or this property is within these limits
but that acquisition of the land at this time is not in the public interest. If
the State Director of Transportation notifies the Commission that the state
shall proceed to acquire the land needed, then the Commission may refuse to
approve the plat, according to provisions of R.C. § 5511.01.
      (2)   At the request of the subdivider, the Commission may give
conditional approval and allow the developer to proceed with completion of the
plat. However, it shall be clearly at the subdivider’s own risk and the
conditional approval shall be withdrawn if the State Director of Transportation
proceeds to acquire the land.
      (3)   If the State Director of Transportation notifies the Commission
that acquisition at this time is not in the public interest, or upon expiration
of a 120-day period from date of notice to the State Director or any extension
thereof agreed upon by the State Director of Transportation and the property
owner, the Commission shall, if the plat is in conformance with all provisions
of this chapter, approve the plat.
      (4)   A copy of correspondence to the State Director shall be mailed to
the Director. The correspondence to the State Director shall indicate the 120-
day notification deadline.
   (E)   (1)   The Village Council shall, within a reasonable time, either
approve or disapprove the plat. Should the Council approve the final plat, the
subdivider shall deliver to the Clerk of Council a bond and other items as
required by §§
152.101,
152.102, and
152.123. Upon review and approval of the items by the Village Engineer, the
Village Manager and Clerk of Council shall sign the final plat and it may be
recorded. The placement of the Manager’s signature on the plat shall constitute
final approval of the subdivision. The required bonds shall be posted and the
plat placed on record within six months from the date of Council’s approval or
the plat shall be null and void; provided, however, the time may be extended by
the Village Council for good cause.
      (2)   If the plat is disapproved by Council, it shall be returned to the
Planning Commission with recommendations for modification. A two-thirds
majority vote is required by Council to overturn a recommendation by the
Planning Commission.
   (F)   A copy of the final plat as recorded shall be submitted to the
Director. Upon completion of the subdivision, “as built plans” based on village
inspection records and prepared by the developer shall be submitted to the
Director in Mylar form and magnetic data files in a format compatible with
village mapping systems.
   (G)   Application for building permits for lots within the subdivision shall
not be submitted until after the plat is recorded and either improvements
completed, or a bond is posted for 100% of the estimated construction,
inspection, and testing cost of the improvements.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.029 SPECIAL PROCEDURES FOR MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   A minor subdivision may be approved for recording by the Village
Manager without referral to the Planning Commission or Village Council,
provided that all appropriate requirements of this chapter are met and the
minor subdivision plan has received a favorable review by the Village Engineer.
Where there are any unusual conditions associated with a proposed subdivision,
the minor subdivision shall be forwarded to the Planning Commission for review
and approval.
   (B)   Minor subdivisions presented to the Commission shall include such
information as contained in §§
152.046 and
152.047 as deemed necessary and appropriate by the Commission and the Village
Manager.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Director under this section
shall have the right to appeal the decision to the Board of Zoning and Building
Appeals by filing a written appeal within ten days of the decision.
   (D)   Any minor subdivision approved by the Village Manager according to
this section shall be reported to the Commission at its first meeting following
the date of the approval.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
PLAT REQUIREMENTS
§ 152.045 PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   Plats, plans, and data submitted to the village for review shall be in
accordance with the requirements contained in the following sections for such
plats.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.046 PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Preliminary plats shall be prepared at a minimum scale of one inch =
100 feet, and the entire project shall be displayed on a single sheet when
possible. If more than two sheets are required, an index sheet must be
included. Where information is required for items off-site, and access to such
areas is not available to the registered surveyor, required information may be
an approximate nature, based on existing plats of surrounding parcels and must
be so noted.
   (B)   Preliminary plats shall include the following:
      (1)   A location map showing the relationship of the proposed subdivision
to the surrounding area;
      (2)   The name of the subdivision, the name and address of the developer,
the name and registration number of the registered surveyor, date of the
survey, a north arrow, scale, and date;
      (3)   The location by section, range, and township or other surveys;
      (4)   Soils information, presented on a separate drawing, identical in
scale to the preliminary plat. Street and lot layout shall be superimposed upon
the soils information sheet. Data shall be derived from the United States
Department of Agriculture Soil Survey;
      (5)   The names and locations of all adjoining property owners and
adjacent subdivisions within 150 feet of the proposed subdivision;
      (6)   The current zoning of the property to be subdivided and of the
contiguous properties;
      (7)   The location and dimensions of all boundary lines of the property
expressed in feet and decimals of a foot, and the approximate acreage of the
land to be subdivided;
      (8)   The location of existing water bodies, streams, drainage ditches,
and other pertinent features within 500 feet of the proposed subdivision,
including stands of trees, trees defined as significant trees herein, and any
tree having a caliper larger than six inches in diameter that will be impacted
by development or construction activities;
      (9)   The location, width, names, and classification of all existing and
proposed streets, rights-of- way, and easements, and where pertinent, their
designated use within 500 feet of the proposed subdivision;
      (10)   Approximate location of all existing buildings within 500 feet of
the proposed subdivision;
      (11)   Location and illustration of existing storm and sanitary sewers,
culverts, drainage tiles, water lines, gas lines, CATV, utility poles, and
utility lines within and adjacent to the proposed subdivision;
      (12)   The location of all existing wells within 300 feet of the proposed
subdivision;
      (13)   The approximate location, dimensions, and numbering of all
proposed lots;
      (14)   The approximate location, dimensions, and area of all property
proposed to be set aside for parks, open space, other public or private
reservation, with designation of the purpose and proposed ownership thereof;
      (15)   Topography with a maximum contour interval of two feet. Elevations
shall be based on mean sea level datum obtained from bench marks established by
the United States Geological Survey;
      (16)   Indication of the proposed use of any lot other than residential;
      (17)   Lots within the subdivision including future additions shall be
numbered consecutively beginning with “one,” and the total number of lots and
their combined acreage shown on the plat;
      (18)   Preliminary proposals for connection to existing water supply and
sanitary sewer systems and for the collection and discharge of surface water
drainage, including the location and size of existing and proposed water mains,
sanitary sewers, and drainage facilities;
      (19)   Delineation of the drainage areas involved, with a plan for
draining the total upstream watershed through the development. The major storm
routing path shall be delineated;
      (20)   The 100-year floodplain of any stream identified as having a flood
hazard area;
      (21)   Written indication from the Village Engineer that capacity for
both water and sanitary sewer service is available;
      (22)   Where it is proposed to develop the tract in sections or stages, a
tentative delineation of the sections and their phasing, including an estimated
time frame;
      (23)   Delineation of any portion of the tract within the defined
wellhead protection areas as set forth in the Zoning Code of the village;
      (24)   Delineation of any portion of the tract within a defined Historic
District of the village and enumeration of any historic place, building,
structure, work of art, or similar object on the tract listed on the Ohio
Historic Inventory, the National Register of Historic Places, or the village’s
Historic Preservation Plan;
      (25)   Delineation of any wetlands on the tract, or likely to be affected
by development or construction activity; and
      (26)   Supplementary information should be provided for:
         (a)   Exceptions to the subdivision design standards;
         (b)   Sight distance from the intersection of any new road with an
existing road;
         (c)   Statement of the drainage philosophy for the development. It
should be stated how detention, retention basins, or other forms of storing and
controlling stormwater runoff will be maintained. If the rate and volume of
runoff from the post development site is greater than the predevelopment site
conditions, there should be a statement whether or not downstream improvements
regarding capacity and erosion control are necessary; and
         (d)   For office, commercial, and industrial developments, the points
of ingress and egress to the development should be identified. Also, the
anticipated principal routes of travel to the development should be shown
utilizing the village’s Thoroughfare Plan.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.047 FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Final plats shall be prepared and stamped by a registered surveyor or
engineer. The plats shall be drawn in black India ink on reproducible Mylar at
a minimum scale of one inch = 100 feet, and magnetic data files shall be
provided to the village in a format compatible with village mapping systems.
The size of the reproducible Mylar shall be 24 inches by 36 inches.
   (B)   In addition to preliminary plat requirement items, final plats shall
include the following:
      (1)   A location map showing the relationship of the proposed subdivision
to the surrounding area;
      (2)   The name of the subdivision, north arrow, scale, and date;
      (3)   The names of all adjoining property owners as shown on the
preliminary plat;
      (4)   The boundary lines of the area being subdivided with accurate
distance and bearings, including section, corporation, and county lines;
      (5)   Curve data for street including the radii, arcs, chords, chord
bearings, tangent, and central angle;
      (6)   Accurate dimensions for all lots, reserve parcels, rights-of-way,
and easements;
      (7)   Accurate location of all required monuments;
      (8)   A summary of the area of land used for each of the following:
         (a)   Lots;
         (b)   Rights-of-way;
         (c)   Parks; and
         (d)   Other open space.
      (9)   Location of setback lines from all rights-of-way, public or
private, and the building envelope shown on all irregular lots;
      (10)   An acknowledgment by and bearing the signature of the owner that
the plat was prepared with the owner’s consent and approval and dedicating the
streets and the appropriate areas to the village;
      (11)   A statement signed by the owner setting forth the rights
associated with the easements and reserve parcels shown on the plat;
      (12)   Certification by a registered surveyor that the information
contained on the plat is true and correct and conforms to the requirements of
these subdivision regulations;
      (13)   An approval block for the endorsement of the plat by the Village
Manager and Clerk of Council upon the approval by Village Council. The approval
block and associated subdivision plat wording is shown in Appendix E attached
to Ord. 96-106; and
      (14)   Limitations on utility services to any parcels as set forth in §
152.071.
   (C)   The final plat shall not be approved until the following items have
been submitted to the Village Manager:
      (1)   Improvement plans prepared by a registered engineer for all
required improvements at a scale of one inch = 50 feet on 24 inch by 36 inch or
at such other scale acceptable to the Village Engineer;
      (2)   A landscaping plan;
      (3)   A traffic-control and signage plan;
      (4)   A lighting plan;
      (5)   An erosion and sedimentation control plan as described in §
152.074;
      (6)   A grading plan;
      (7)   A letter from the Ohio EPA and the Village Engineer approving the
improvement plans for the sanitary sewer;
      (8)   A letter from the Ohio EPA and the Village Engineer approving the
improvement plans for the water distribution system;
      (9)   Bonds or other guarantees as may be required by §§
152.100 through
152.102;
      (10)   All approvals from regulatory agencies;
      (11)   Payment of all required fees; and
      (12)   Any other items required as a condition of approval by the Village
Council, the Planning Commission, and the Subdivision Code of the village.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.048 MINOR SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   Minor subdivision plats shall contain information sufficient to the Village
Manager and Village Engineer to ensure compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 152.065 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS; CONSTRUCTION AND MATERIAL SPECIFICATIONS;
PLANS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Prior to final approval, the subdivider shall have installed or
furnished surety, in accordance with §
152.101, to guarantee the installation of the improvements hereinafter
required.
      (2)   All items of work covered and stipulated in the improvement plans,
including altering or any extra work, shall be performed in accordance with the
lines, grades, typical cross sections and dimensions shown on the construction
plans. All areas within the rights-of-way and easements shall be graded in
accordance with the grading plan. All other areas shall be rough graded such
that building construction, including basement excavation, will satisfy final
grading in accordance with the grading plan. The setting and marking of all
lines, profile, and grade stakes necessary for the layout of the work in
accordance with the improvement plans will be performed under the supervision
of a registered engineer or registered surveyor. Should any misunderstanding
arise as to the intent or meaning of the construction plans, or any discrepancy
appear in same, or in the proper method of setting and marking of the
construction stakes, the decision of the Village Engineer in such cases shall
be final.
   (B)   Village construction and material specifications. The construction
material specifications of the state’s Department of Transportation, latest
edition, and the village standard drawings and specifications shall govern the
required improvements except as modified within these subdivision regulations.
   (C)   General requirements.
      (1)   All improvement plans shall be prepared, signed, and sealed by a
registered professional engineer. Plans shall include title sheet, index map,
location map, typical sections, plan and profile view, bench marks,
miscellaneous engineering details, and estimate of quantities. Cross sections
shall be submitted upon request by the Village Engineer. All typical sections
and major engineering details to be used on any particular street shall be
approved in advance before completion of the improvement plans. Scale of
improvement plans shall be one inch = 40 feet horizontal and one inch = five
feet vertical.
      (2)   The title sheet of the improvement plans must contain the name of
the subdivision, road or street names, county, and location map. Space shall be
provided on the title sheet or the first sheet of the plan for signature of the
Village Engineer and Village Manager.
      (3)   The necessity of guard rail, seeding, erosion control, type of
backfill, or other special conditions shall be determined with the assistance
of the Village Engineer before completion of the improvement plans.
      (4)   The improvement plans shall show the drainage area and design flow
for all major culverts.
      (5)   The construction plans shall be made with India ink on matte Mylar
material. Freehand linear drawings will not be accepted. No shading or coloring
shall be allowed. The sheets upon which the construction drawings are made
shall measure 24 inches by 36 inches, with one-half inch margin border on three
sides and a one and one-half inch to two-inch binding margin on the short left
side. A poorly drawn or illegible plan is sufficient cause for rejection.
      (6)   Submittal requirements include improvement plans, sanitary sewer
calculations, storm drainage calculations, grading plans, landscaping plans,
erosion and sedimentation control plans, and lighting plans. See §
152.028 for time frames for submittal to the Director in conformance with
policy established with the Planning Commission.
      (7)   Re-submittal of improvement plans shall clearly show all revisions
made thereto, by dated notes in the “revision” block and outlines of the
revisions.
      (8)   After the improvements have been constructed, a complete set of as
built plans on reproducible Mylar and magnetic data files in a format
compatible with village mapping systems shall be submitted to the Village
Manager for village files.
   (D)   Improvement plans.
      (1)   Plan view on improvement plans must include the following:
         (a)   Right-of-way line, centerline, departing lot lines, lot numbers,
subdivision limits, and limits of construction;
         (b)   Centerline curve data, including delta, radius, arc, chord, and
tangent;
         (c)   Radius of all curb returns to face of curb;
         (d)   Approved street name, in accordance with §
152.067;
         (e)   Stations at every 100 feet on centerline. Indicate stations at
points of curve and tangent at the beginning and end of all returns at
centerline intersection, and at subdivision or section limits;
         (f)   The back of curb for full length of all streets;
         (g)   When proposed streets intersect with or join existing streets or
traveled way, indicate both edges of existing pavement, surface, or curb and
gutter for a minimum of 100 feet, or the length of connection, whichever is the
greater distance;
         (h)   All existing or proposed easements;
         (i)   All water mains, their sizes, valves, and fire hydrants, and
location of mains to centerline of street;
         (j)   All storm sewers and appurtenances. Identify storm sewer
appurtenances by type. All appurtenances shall be numbered. Indicate the top
elevation of each structure. Storm sewer appurtenances and locations should be
referenced to the centerline station of street;
         (k)   All sanitary sewers and appurtenances. Identify sanitary sewer
appurtenances by type. All appurtenances shall be numbered;
         (l)   The location of all or any natural springs whether within or
draining to street right-of- way and indicate proposed treatment of same. All
springs will be capped and piped in a minimum six- inch diameter perforated
pipe encased in washed gravel, and connected into the nearest storm manhole or
curb inlet;
         (m)   Proposed stream or channel relocations. Show existing and
proposed locations. Furnish detailed typical section and type of stabilization
to be provided;
         (n)   Guard posts or barricade at the end of streets which are to be
extended in the future. A temporary T-turnaround shall be provided for dead-end
streets exceeding 200 feet in length;
         (o)   Protection of ends of curb and gutter by providing for erosion
control and temporary drainage where required;
         (p)   Where a special typical section is approved, provide detail on
plan;
         (q)   Notes that may be necessary to explain the intent and purposes
of the plan;
         (r)   Symmetrical transition of pavement at intersection with existing
street; and
         (s)   Proposed construction traffic entrance.
      (2)   Profile view on improvement plans must include the following:
         (a)   Elevations at beginning and end of all vertical curves;
         (b)   Length of vertical curves with elevations and stations of
vertical points of intersections (VPI);
         (c)   Elevations computed every 50 feet on all tangent sections, and
grades computed every 25 feet in all vertical curves;
         (d)   Elevations along all curbs and curb returns on intersecting
streets. The grades of intersecting streets shall match at the intersection of
the extensions of the respective curbs. In other words, a hypothetical curb
P.I. must be established;
         (e)   Elevations at all curb inlets;
         (f)   Extension of centerline profile 300 feet beyond property line or
boundary on all streets that provide for access to adjoining property;
         (g)   Existing centerline profiles for 200 feet minimum distance to
ensure proper grade tie, when proposed street is an extension of, or connects
with an existing street or road;
         (h)   Centerline profile of existing street or road 300 feet minimum
distance to right and left of proposed connection, when a proposed street
intersects with an existing street or road;
         (i)   All proposed water mains, storm sewers, and appurtenances;
         (j)   All crossings of existing utilities; and
         (k)   Notes that may be necessary to explain the intent and purposes
of the profile.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.066 MONUMENTS.
   Iron pins and permanent markers shall be set under the direction of a
registered surveyor at all changes in direction of all outside boundary lines
of the platted property and at all changes in direction of the right-of-way
lines. Iron pins shall be thirteen-sixteenths inch inside diameter, 30 inches
long with a plastic plug placed in the top bearing the initials of the
surveyor. Permanent markers shall be one-inch inside diameter, material 30
inches long, buried one foot in depth below final grade with a plastic plug
placed in the top bearing the initials of the surveyor. A minimum of four
permanent markers shall be set. All monumentation shall meet the minimum
standards for boundary surveys in the state.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.067 STREETS.
   Streets shall be designed and constructed so as to meet the following
criteria.
   (A)   (1)   Right-of-way and pavement widths shall be as shown in the
following table. Pavement widths shall be measured back to back of curbs.
 
Street Type     Minimum Right-of-Way (Feet) Minimum Pavement Width (Feet)
Arterial        100                         52
Cul-de-sac      50                          27
Local           54                          30
Major collector 80                          36
Minor collector 66                          36
 
      (2)   Turnarounds on cul-de-sacs shall have a minimum 100-foot diameter
right-of-way. If the turnaround includes a center island, a minimum 26-foot
wide pavement shall be provided around the island.
   (B)   The typical sections contained in Appendix C attached to Ordinance 96-
106 shall be utilized.
   (C)   Pavement shall meet or exceed the following criteria (all reference
numbers refer to Ohio Department of Transportation Construction and Material
Specifications, latest edition):
MINIMUM PAVEMENT COMPOSITION (see note)
 Aggregate Base   Deep Strength Concrete Base Concrete Pavement
 304* 301 402 404 301 402 404   305** 402     404 452
MINIMUM PAVEMENT COMPOSITION (see note)
           Aggregate Base          Deep Strength     Concrete    Concrete
                                                     Base        Pavement
           304*  301   402   404   301   402   404   305** 402   404   452
Arterial
or                                       1-1/  1-1/              1-1/
industrial                     7 in. 2 in. 2 in. 8 in. 1 in. 2 in. 9 in.
street
(75)
Collector
or                                       1-1/  1-1/              1-1/
arterial                       6 in. 2 in. 2 in. 6 in.      2 in. 8 in.
street
(20)
Collector                    1-1/              1-1/              1-1/
street     4 in. 3 in. 2 in. 2 in. 6 in.      2 in. 6 in.      2 in. 6 in.
(10)
Local      9 in.      2 in. 1-1/  5 in.      1-1/  6 in.      1-1/  6 in.
street (3)                   2 in.             2 in.             2 in.
Note:   pavement subgrade compaction shall be in accordance with ODOT Item
203.
*   A prime coat (Item 408) (0.35 gallon per square yard) will be required
between the 304 and bituminous course.
**   A tack coat (Item 407) (0.10 gallon per square yard) will be required
between the 305 and 404 course.
Note:   The number in parenthesis is the design traffic number and is the
minimum n number of 18,000 pounds equivalent loads per day. When it is
possible that this will be exceeded, the developer’s engineer shall check with
the Village Engineer about changing the design.
Legend
301   =   Bituminous Aggregate Base         404   =   Asphalt Concrete
304   =   Aggregate Base            407   =   Tack Coat (RC-70 or RS-1)
305   =   Plain Portland Cement Concrete      408   =   Prime Coat (RC-30, MC-
70, RT-2, RS-1, RS-2)
Pavement (5 Bag)               452   =   Plain Portland Cement Pavement Class
C. - ODOT
402   =   Asphalt Concrete                     Specifications
 
   (D)   Curb and gutter with under drains shall be constructed in accordance
with village standards.
   (E)   Sub-base shall be free of topsoil, vegetation, soft clay, or other
objectionable material for a minimum depth of two feet below finished sub-
grade. The sub-base shall be rolled, shaped, and compacted to a minimum depth
of one foot below subgrade and to a minimum width of 18 inches beyond the back
of curbs. Compaction shall be not less than 100% of maximum dry density.
   (F)   The minimum radius at intersections measured at the face of curb shall
be 20 feet for cul-de-sacs and local streets, 35 feet for collector streets,
and 50 feet for arterial intersections.
   (G)   Horizontal and vertical alignment shall meet the following minimum
standards:
 
                   Arterial  Major Collector Minor Collector Cul-de-sac or
                                                             Local
Centerline radius  1,000 ft. 500 ft.         350 ft.         150 ft.
Maximum gradient   6%        6%              7%              8%
Minimum gradient   0.5%      0.5%            0.5%            0.5%
Minimum street     90°      90°            90°            80°
intersection angle
 
   (H)   Clear sight distance (length along each approach leg) shall be a
minimum of 100 feet.
   (I)   Intersection centerline off-sets shall meet the following minimum
requirements:
      (1)   Local/local, 150 feet;
      (2)   Local/collector, 200 feet;
      (3)   Local/arterial, 300 feet;
      (4)   Collector/collector, 300 feet;
      (5)   Collector/arterial, 1,320 feet;
      (6)   Cul-de-sac/cul-de-sac, 150 feet;
      (7)   Cul-de-sac/local, 150 feet;
      (8)   Cul-de-sac/collector, 200 feet; and
      (9)   Cul-de-sac/arterial, not permitted.
   (J)   (1)   Vertical curves shall be provided at any change of vertical
grade where the algebraic difference on grades is 1.0% or greater unless
otherwise directed by the Village Engineer. Sight distance shall be measured as
the line of sight from a height of 3.75 feet to 0.5 feet above the pavement.
      (2)   The following table shall be used as a guide for minimum lengths of
vertical curves.
 
Algebraic Difference in % Grade Length of Vertical Curve (Feet)
1.0 - 2.0                       50
2.0 - 4.0                       100
4.0 - 4.5                       150
4.5 - 5.0                       200
5.0 - 6.0                       250
6.0 - 7.0                       300
 
   (K)   The maximum profile grade approach to intersections shall be 3%.
   (L)   Sidewalks shall be installed along all streets and shall be
constructed of portland cement concrete and shall be located with the outside
edge six inches inside the right-of-way. Sidewalks shall be minimum width as
indicated below. The minimum thickness of sidewalks shall be four inches. At
driveways, and other points of vehicle crossing, the thickness shall be six
inches. Sidewalks shall extend to the curbs at all intersections and shall
include wheelchair ramps.
 
Type of Street  Sidewalk Width (Feet)
Arterial        8*
Cul-de-sac      4
Local           4
Major collector 6
Minor collector 4
*Or may be bikeway, may be asphalt or concrete.
 
   (M)   Driveway aprons six inches thick shall be provided from the sidewalk
to the curb at all driveway locations in accordance with the village standard
drawing. The maximum grade on driveways shall not exceed 14%.
   (N)   The location, length, width, and construction material of the proposed
construction traffic entrance shall be as approved by the Village Engineer.
   (O)   Street layout: the arrangement, character, extent, width, and location
of all streets shall conform to the Master Street Plan of the village and to
the following.
      (1)   Streets shall be so arranged as to provide for the continuation of
existing streets.
      (2)   Connections shall be provided to adjoining properties for future
access.
      (3)   Local residential streets shall be laid out so as to discourage
through traffic while providing for interconnection of neighborhoods and
reasonable safety and service vehicle access.
      (4)   Cul-de-sacs shall be provided with a bulb-type turnaround. Where
islands are provided in cul-de-sacs, the owners of lots fronting on the
turnaround shall maintain the vegetation on the island as part of their tree
lawn and a note indicating such and identifying of lots shall be included on
the final plat.
      (5)   Permanent cul-de-sacs shall not exceed 600 feet except where this
requirement is specifically waived by the Planning Commission based on
topography or property configuration or such other conditions deemed
reasonable. Temporary cul-de-sacs may exceed 600 feet where they are part of an
overall street network.
      (6)   The following regulations shall govern the design and layout of
blocks.
         (a)   Irregularly shaped blocks, those intended for cul-de-sacs or
loop streets, and those containing interior parks or playgrounds will be
evaluated by the Commission and may be approved by the Commission if properly
designed and located and if the maintenance of interior public spaces is
covered by notation on the plat.
         (b)   No block shall be longer than 1,500 feet and the block width
shall accommodate two tiers of lots, except where unusual topography or other
exceptional physical circumstances exist.
         (c)   Where blocks are over 900 feet in length, a crosswalk easement
no less than ten feet in width at or near the halfway point may be required to
provide proper access to schools, recreational areas, shopping centers, and
other facilities.
      (7)   Street names shall be approved by the Planning Commission and shall
not duplicate names of existing streets in the village.
   (P)   Lots should be designed so as to accomplish the following.
      (1)   Each lot shall have access to a public street as specified in the
Zoning Code.
      (2)   The depth and width of commercial and industrial lots shall be
adequate to provide for the required off-street loading and parking spaces.
      (3)   Corner lots shall have extra width to permit appropriate building
setback from and orientation to both streets.
      (4)   Double frontage, reverse frontage, and irregularly shaped lots
should be avoided.
      (5)   Lot lines shall be substantially at right angles or radial to
street lines.
      (6)   No lot shall have an average depth which is more than three and
one-half times its average width unless otherwise allowed by the Commission.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.068 STREET LIGHTING.
   Street lighting shall be required and shall be designed, selected, and
installed by the subdivider following the recommendations of the current
Illuminating Engineering Society (IES) handbook in accordance with a lighting
plan approved by the village. Illumination provided shall be uniform and
compatible with adjacent light sources. Energy efficient lamps, controlled by
dusk-to-dawn photocells, are required unless otherwise directed by the Village
Engineer. Selection of fixtures shall be approved by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.069 SIGNS.
   All traffic and street name signs shall be installed by the subdivider and
shall conform to the requirements as set forth by the Village Engineer. A plan
of traffic signs, signals, and markings conforming to the current Ohio Manual
of Uniform Traffic-Control Devices shall be submitted for review and approval.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.070 WATER.
   (A)   Water utility systems shall be constructed in accordance with the
General Notes (Water) contained in Appendix D attached to Ord. 96-106, and the
standard drawings and specifications of the village.
   (B)   Evidence that the construction plans of the water supply system have
been approved by the Ohio EPA and the Village Engineer shall be submitted to
the Village Manager prior to approval of the final plat.
   (C)   Adequate public water service shall be provided for all lots in
conformance with the following criteria.
      (1)   Service connections shall be provided for each lot. At
intersections and at cul-de-sac turnarounds the service connections shall be
installed at the time the water main is installed.
      (2)   The standard minimum size of mains shall be eight inches. Line
sizes may need to be larger than the minimums to be in conformance with the
proposed Master Plan sizes of the village or to provide the needed fire hydrant
flows. If larger line sizes are required to be in conformance with the Master
Plan, the village may participate in the cost of oversizing, in accordance with
the subdivider’s agreement.
      (3)   Minimum cover for water mains shall be 48 inches; for water
services, 42 inches.
      (4)   Water mains shall be laid at least ten feet horizontally from any
existing or proposed sanitary sewer or force main. The distance shall be
measured edge to edge. In cases where it is not practical to maintain a ten-
foot separation, the village may allow deviation on a case-by-case basis as
approved by the Village Engineer, provided that the bottom of the water main is
at least 18 inches above the top of the sewer.
      (5)   Water mains crossing sewers shall be laid to provide a minimum
vertical distance of 18 inches between the outside of the water main and the
outside of the sewer. This shall be the case where the water main is either
above or below the sewer. At crossings, one full length of water pipe should be
located so both joints will be as far from the sewer as possible. Special
structural support for the water and sewer pipes may be required. At all
crossings of water mains and other utilities, compacted granular material is
required between the deeper and shallower pipe.
      (6)   The following requirements shall be met for fire protection:
         (a)   In a residential single-family area, there shall be a minimum
distribution of fire hydrants on a ratio of one to each 120,000 square feet of
area. The distance between fire hydrants shall not exceed 400 feet, and one
hydrant shall be placed within 200 feet of the end of a cul-de-sac or dead- end
street.
         (b)   In commercial, business, industrial, and multi-family areas,
there shall be a distribution of public and/or private fire hydrants on a ratio
of one to each 80,000 square feet of area. A minimum of one hydrant shall be
provided within 300 feet of every building or part thereof with a minimum of
one additional hydrant within 500 feet of every building or part thereof.
         (c)   Fire hydrants shall be placed two feet clear behind the back of
curb, whenever possible, or eight feet clear behind the edge of pavement in
uncurbed streets. Fire hydrants shall be placed a minimum of 40 feet from
buildings protected whenever possible.
         (d)   Fire hydrants shall be located in the center of the frontage of
any proposed lot. Fire hydrants shall be located along cul-de-sacs at the
direction of the Village Engineer.
         (e)   Computations may be required to verify that the minimum fire
hydrant flow in the proposed improvement meets the requirements for the
appropriate insurance ratings. The computations shall be based on a Hazen
Williams coefficient of 100. For residential, (single-family) areas, the fire
flow should be 1,000 gallons per minute (gpm) at 20 pounds per square inch
(psi). For industrial, multi- family, or commercial areas, the fire flow should
be a minimum of 2,000 gpm at 20 psi. Higher flows may be required depending on
the type of use. Fire flows shall be provided in addition to maximum daily
requirements.
         (f)   Fire hydrants shall conform to AWWA C502 and village standards.
      (7)   Valves shall be placed outside of pavement unless otherwise
approved by the Village Engineer. In general, two valves shall be installed at
every main line tee, and three valves shall be placed at every main line cross.
The maximum distance between main line valves shall be 1,000 feet.
      (8)   At high points in water mains 12-inch diameter and larger where air
can accumulate, provisions shall be made to remove the air by means of hydrants
or manual air relief valves.
      (9)   All tees, bends, plugs, and hydrants shall be provided with
reaction blocking, tie rods, or joints designed to prevent movement. Tie rods
shall be coated with epoxy or two coats of bitumastic material equal to Inertol
No. 49 Thick.
      (10)   Meters shall be supplied by the village and paid for by the
customer. Meter pits including meter setter conforming to village
specifications shall be provided and installed by the developer as part of
water main construction.
      (11)   The subdivider shall provide the village with all required Ohio
EPA approvals and pay all Ohio EPA review fees.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.071 SANITARY SEWERS.
   (A)   Sanitary sewer utility systems shall be constructed in accordance with
the General Notes (Sewer) contained in Appendix D attached to Ordinance 96-106,
and the standards drawings and specifications of the village.
   (B)   Each lot shall be served by an adequate sanitary sewage collection and
disposal system. Evidence that the sewer construction plans have been reviewed
and approved by Ohio EPA and the Village Engineer shall be submitted to the
Village Manager prior to approval of the final plat.
   (C)   (1)   All sanitary sewer pipe shall be extra strength vitrified clay,
reinforced concrete, ductile iron, or polyvinyl chloride (minimum SDR 35). All
pipe shall have sufficient strength to withstand an HS-20 live load. If PVC
pipe is used, a mandrel test is required just prior to expiration of the one-
year guarantee to assure maximum deflection of 5% has not been exceeded. Any
pipe that fails this test will be replaced at the subdivider’s expense.
      (2)   Reinforced concrete pipe and structures, and PVC pipe, shall be
shop tested at the direction of the Village Engineer at the subdivider’s
expense. A report of the material tests shall be provided to the Village
Engineer.
   (D)   All sanitary sewage collection systems shall be constructed in
accordance with the rules, regulations, standards, and specifications of the
village, OEPA, and the state’s Department of Health.
   (E)   Only under circumstances of extreme hardship shall sewage lift
stations, sewage grinder pumps, or individual household sewage disposal systems
be permitted and only with the approval of the Village Engineer, the County
Board of Health, and the village. Where approved, such systems shall meet the
standards and specifications of the Village Engineer, the County Board of
Health, and the village.
   (F)   A map must be provided delineating the contributing area in acres to
the sanitary sewer system. All sanitary sewer manholes shall be numbered,
consistent with the numbering on the improvement plans. A copy of the location
map may be used for this purpose.
   (G)   Sanitary sewers shall be designed in accordance with the following
table entitled “Sanitary Sewer Design Criteria”.
      (1)   This table is based on a population density of 8.4 persons per acre
(single-family, residential density) with a per capita flow of 100 gallons per
day (gpd).
      (2)   For areas of greater population density than 8.4 persons per acre,
the design flow shall be determined on a basis of population instead of area.
      (3)   The sanitary sewer design shall be in accordance with the current
edition of Ten States - Recommended Standards for Sewage Works and the
requirements of the Ohio EPA.
SANITARY SEWER DESIGN CRITERIA
Data:
   Use:   OEPA Peaking Factor
         8.4 People Per Acre
         100 Gallons Per Capita Per Day
Infiltration at 0.1 CFS Per 100 Acres
Peak Flow = Average Flow (840 Gallons Per Acre) x Peak Factor + Infiltration
Acreage GPD Average GPD Peak Factor GPD          GPD Peak Flow CFS Peak Flow
        Flow                        Infiltration
SANITARY SEWER DESIGN CRITERIA
Data:
   Use:   OEPA Peaking Factor
         8.4 People Per Acre
         100 Gallons Per Capita Per Day
Infiltration at 0.1 CFS Per 100 Acres
Peak Flow = Average Flow (840 Gallons Per Acre) x Peak Factor + Infiltration
Acreage GPD Average GPD Peak Factor GPD          GPD Peak Flow CFS Peak Flow
        Flow                        Infiltration
10      8,400       6.8             6,463        63,583        0.10
20      16,800      6.7             12,926       125,486       0.19
30      25,200      6.3             19,389       178,149       0.28
40      33,600      6.0             25,852       227,452       0.35
50      42,000      5.8             32,315       275,915       0.43
60      50,400      5.7             38,778       326,058       0.50
70      58,800      5.5             45,241       368,641       0.57
80      67,200      5.4             51,704       414,584       0.64
90      75,600      5.3             58,167       458,847       0.71
100     84,000      5.2             64,630       501,430       0.78
125     105,000     5.0             80,788       605,788       0.94
150     126,000     4.8             96,945       701,745       1.09
175     147,000     4.7             113,103      804,003       1.24
200     168,000     4.6             129,260      902,060       1.40
225     189,000     4.4             145,418      977,018       1.51
250     210,000     4.3             161,575      1,064,575     1.65
275     231,000     4.2             177,733      1,147,933     1.78
300     252,000     4.1             193,890      1,227,090     1.90
350     294,000     4.0             226,205      1,402,205     2.17
400     336,000     3.9             258,520      1,568,920     2.43
450     378,000     3.8             290,835      1,727,235     2.67
500     420,000     3.7             323,150      1,877,150     2.90
600     504,000     3.7             387,780      2,252,580     3.49
700     588,000     3.6             452,410      2,569,210     3.98
800     672,000     3.5             517,040      2,869,040     4.44
900     756,000     3.5             581,670      3,227,670     4.99
1,000   840,000     3.4             646,300      3,502,300     5.42
1,200   1,008,000   3.3             775,560      4,101,960     6.35
1,400   1,176,000   3.3             904,820      4,785,620     7.40
1,600   1,344,000   3.2             1,034,080    5,334,880     8.25
1,800   1,512,000   3.1             1,163,340    5,850,540     9.05
2,000   1,680,000   3.0             1,292,600    6,332,600     9.80
 
   (H)   The subdivider shall provide the village with all required Ohio EPA
approvals and pay all Ohio EPA review fees.
   (I)   Minimum line size shall be eight inches. Downstream sanitary sewer
pipe sizes shall be greater than or equal to the upstream size unless otherwise
approved by the village. The flow lines of pipes shall be set such that either
the crown, or the 0.8 depth points at junctions are at the same elevation.
However, the crown of the outlet pipe may be lower. If larger line sizes are
required to be in conformance with the Master Plan, the village may participate
in the cost of oversizing, in accordance with the subdivider’s agreement.
   (J)   All sanitary sewer manholes shall be pre-cast concrete, unless
otherwise approved by the Village Engineer.
   (K)   Service shall be provided to each lot. If basement service is not
provided, it shall be so noted on the sanitary sewer improvement plans and on
the plat. Risers shall be provided where the service is greater than 12 feet
deep, provided that basement service will still be provided.
   (L)   All sanitary sewers shall be visually inspected and the inspection
recorded on appropriate digital media after construction prior to acceptance of
the sewers by the village. The videotape shall remain the property of the
village. The videotape shall clearly identify the location of the camera within
the sewer, date and time of videotape, and be of sufficient quality to
determine the condition of the sewers.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.072 DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Subdivision drainage systems. An adequate storm drainage system shall
be provided for each subdivision. The design of the system shall be prepared
using the rational method and shall be based on a minimum two-year frequency.
Rainfall intensity, runoff coefficients, and concentration time used in
computing flows and structure sizes shall be in accordance with the tables,
charts, and the data established by the Village Engineer for such calculations.
All areas which contribute stormwater to the proposed drainage system must be
considered on the determination of the sizes of structures and channels.
   (B)   Grading and elevation requirements.
      (1)   A separate grading plan shall be submitted at a scale of one inch =
50 feet or one inch = 100 feet. The grading plan shall indicate ground
elevations with existing and proposed contours shown at intervals of not more
than five feet where the slope is greater than 10% and not more than two feet
where the slope is less than 10%. Sufficient proposed elevations shall be shown
such as at all lot corners and the like in order to explain the proposed
grading. First floor elevations of all existing and proposed structures shall
be included. Routing of the major storm shall be shown. Sanitary sewer and
storm sewer top of castings must be shown on the grading plan.
      (2)   The minimum building elevation adjacent to the 100-year routing
path shall be set a minimum of one-foot above the 100-year flood elevation. No
basement entrances, windows, or basement level garages shall be permitted
adjacent to and below the 100-year routing path.
      (3)   Swales necessary to carry surface water must have a minimum
gradient of 1%.
   (C)   Storm sewer requirements.
      (1)   Minimum cover for storm sewer pipe shall be one-foot clear from the
bottom of the curb and gutter or from the bottom of the under drain to the
outside top of the pipe except as approved by the village. Maintain a minimum
of two feet of cover from the finished ground surface to the outside top of the
pipe for any storm sewer system located beyond the limits of street right-of-
way.
      (2)   Standard head walls are to be constructed at the inlet and outfall
of all storm sewers, and shall be shown on the plan and profile.
      (3)   The invert of the first storm sewer appurtenance shall be above the
computed floodplain elevation, unless otherwise permitted by the Village
Engineer.
      (4)   Pipe for storm sewers shall not be less than 12 inches in diameter.
All storm sewer pipe shall be extra strength vitrified clay, reinforced
concrete, or ODOT Item 603 PVC. Other materials may be approved at the
direction of the Village Engineer. All pipes shall have sufficient strength to
withstand an HS-20 live load.
      (5)   All drainage calculations, drainage area outlines, and contributing
areas used in drainage design shall be furnished on a print of the grading
plan.
      (6)   The inverts of all curb inlets, manholes, yard inlets, and other
appurtenances shall be formed to reduce turbulence to a minimum.
      (7)   Manholes shall be provided at all changes in alignment and grade of
storm sewers and at such other locations as necessary to maintain a maximum
interval of 500 feet between manholes or storm sewers.
      (8)   Storm inlet or catch basin grates shall be of a type to permit safe
crossing by bicycles as approved by the Village Engineer.
      (9)   The maximum distance for overland flow shall be 300 feet before
entering a surface yard inlet or 425 feet before entering a curb inlet, except
that the maximum overland drainage area tributary to any yard inlet or curb
inlet shall not exceed one and one-half acres. The maximum spacing for curb
inlets shall not exceed 400 feet unless approved by the village. The maximum
spread of flow during a two-year storm shall not exceed eight feet for 30-foot
wide streets and nine feet for streets wider than 30 feet. Spread calculations
may be required, at the discretion of the Village Engineer.
      (10)   All stormwater runoff shall be conducted through storm drainage
systems up to and including the equivalent of a 72-inch inside diameter pipe.
      (11)   The flow lines of pipes shall be set such that either the crown,
or the 0.8 depth points, at junctions, are at the same elevation. However, the
crown of the outlet pipe may be lower.
      (12)   Where an open watercourse is permitted, an easement shall be
provided at least equal to the area required for the 100-year rainfall. Also,
the easement shall be shown on the final plat as a “Watercourse and Utility
Easement”. Restrictions as to the use of this easement shall be shown on the
final plat.
      (13)   No water will be allowed to cross a street intersection unless it
is carried in storm sewer.
   (D)   Storm sewer design criteria.
      (1)   The method outlines herein will provide a general guide as to the
criteria and procedures to be used for storm sewer design.
         (a)   The rational method shall be used for all stormwater drainage
design for areas up to 200 acres. Storm sewers shall be designed to carry a
two-year storm flowing full Q = CIA, in which:
            Q   =   Quantity of stormwater runoff in cubic feet per second;
            C   =    Coefficient of runoff (0.4 for single-family residential
areas);
            I   =   Average rainfall intensity in inches per hour for the
period of concentration to the point under consideration. The minimum length of
time of concentration is ten minutes to a curb inlet or 15 minutes to a ditch
catch basin; and
            A   =   Drainage area in acres tributary to the point of
concentration.
         (b)   For drainage areas over 200 acres, the method explained in Urban
Hydrology for Small Watershed, Technical Release No. 55 (can be obtained from
the Soil Conservation Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture) shall be used.
      (2)   The minimum time of concentration to the first curb inlet shall be
ten minutes. The minimum time of concentration to the first catch basin shall
be 15 minutes.
      (3)   Storm sewer pipe sizes are to be determined by using Manning’s
formula with a minimum coefficient of roughness of n = .01.
      (4)   The minimum allowable velocity shall be three feet per second (fps)
in pipe. The maximum allowable velocity shall be seven fps.
      (5)   The hydraulic profile must be submitted as part of the storm
drainage calculation required in this section of the code. Storm sewer should
be designed such that hydraulic grade line does not extend above the top of any
inlet grate or manhole for a ten-year design storm.
   (E)   Open watercourses.
      (1)   Access to storm drainage ditches and channels shall be assured by
means of maintenance easements. Such maintenance easements shall be not less
than 20 feet in width, measured horizontally from the top of the bank,
exclusive of the width of the ditch, or channel, and shall be provided on each
side of the ditch. Maintenance easements are to be kept free of obstructions.
Detailed provisions regarding the entities to be responsible for maintenance of
the facility shall be submitted in text form with the subdivision plat. As
applicable, notes regarding maintenance shall be made on the plat.
      (2)   Design storm frequency for open channels shall be based on bank
full for 25-year storm, with a one-foot freeboard.
      (3)   The minimum velocity for open channels shall be two feet per
second. The maximum velocity is dependent on the type of channel protection
provided. The desirable minimum grade for open channel is 0.4%.
      (4)   (a)   The Manning “n” values shall be as follows:
 
Sod or jute mat lining 0.05
Paved lining           0.015
Rock protection        0.08
 
         (b)   Manning “n” values for other lining materials will be reviewed
by the Village Engineer on a case-by-case basis.
      (5)   The minimum side slope shall be 3:1 for unprotected slopes and 2:
1 for slopes protected with riprap. Flatter slopes are more desirable. Steeper
slopes for materials other than riprap will be reviewed on a case-by-case
basis.
      (6)   If the proposed improvements are located in a floodplain area as
identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the limits of this
floodway and floodway fringe must be shown on the improvement plans.
   (F)   Roadway culverts.
      (1)   Single span culverts, including concrete box or slab top, should
always be considered in lieu of multiple cell pipe culverts in order to meet
the physical requirements introduced by rigid headwater controls.
      (2)   The plan for each culvert shall indicate the drainage area in acres
and the design discharge in cubic feet per second.
      (3)   The culvert invert elevation should be set such that it will be
deep enough to provide an adequate outlet for future storm sewer improvements
upstream.
      (4)   The design storm frequency for culverts is 25 years, or as
otherwise approved as required, with a maximum allowable headwater of 12 inches
below edge of pavement, with consideration for effects on upstream property.
      (5)   The Manning’s “n” values shall be as follows:
 
Box culvert      0.011
Slab top culvert 0.03 to 0.05
Smooth pipe      0.012
 
      (6)   The minimum cover to sub-grade shall be nine inches from top of
pipe to bottom of sub- grade. The structural design of culverts shall be the
same as that required by the state’s Department of Transportation.
   (G)   Stormwater detention.
      (1)   If the post-development runoff volume is greater than the
predevelopment runoff volume, stormwater detention must be provided in
accordance with the following table:
 
Increase in Two-Year Volume of Runoff Control Design Frequency (Critical Storm)
1 - 2 times                           10-year
2 - 3 times                           25-year
3 - 4 times                           50-year
Over 4 times                          100-year
 
      (2)   The maximum allowable release rate shall be based on the two-year
storm under pre- developed site conditions, for all rainfall events up to and
including the critical storm. The maximum allowable release rate for storms
greater than the critical storm shall not exceed the pre-developed rate for the
same frequency storm, for storms up to and including the 100-year storm.
      (3)   Appendix B, “Total Runoff Volume Computations Worksheet,” attached
to Ord. 96-106, should be used to determine pre-developed and post-developed
runoff volumes, runoff volumes for critical storm, and required detention
volume calculations.
      (4)   Retention basins shall be lined with riprap or other bank
protection as approved by the Village Engineer, extending at least three feet
horizontally and two feet vertically from the established water table line.
Soils information shall be provided to demonstrate that the retention basin
will be impervious.
         (a)   Detention basins shall have a minimum 1% slope.
         (b)   All control facilities shall be designed with overflow
provisions to handle the developed 100-year discharge.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
Cross-reference:
   Flood hazard regulations, see
Ch. 151
§ 152.073 BRIDGES.
   Bridges over walkways or watercourses shall be designed to ODOT standards.
Calculations shall be submitted to the Village Engineer to demonstrate that
these standards have been met.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.074 EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL.
   (A)   Measures shall be taken to minimize erosion and its impacts during
subdivision construction activity. Detailed erosion control plans shall be
submitted with the improvement plans and shall indicate the techniques to be
used both temporarily (during construction) and permanently, and include a
schedule for implementing or installing same. All erosion control devices shall
be in place at the start of construction and other measures implemented
according to the approved time schedule.
   (B)   Erosion control plans shall be based upon controlling erosion on-site,
with the object of eliminating or minimizing erosion or sedimentation impacts
off-site. Techniques, devices, or measures used shall be as approved by the
Village Engineer based on site conditions and the requirements of the Soil
Conservation Service Handbook Water Management and Sediment Control for
Urbanizing Areas.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.075 LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   All improved areas within dedicated street rights-of-way shall be
graded, top soiled, and seeded in accordance with the construction schedule and
in a manner approved by the Village Engineer. Street trees shall be required
and planted in accordance with the approved landscape plan.
   (B)   The number, type, and location of trees to be planted as well as
existing trees preserved on the site shall be shown on a landscaping plan to be
submitted with the final plat. The Planning Commission, with the advice of the
Village Tree Board, may review and reject the proposed landscape plan if such
plan is not appropriate for the intended use given environmental, technical, or
land use considerations. Landscaping plans shall be in accordance with a Master
Tree Plan. Where such plans do not exist, landscaping shall be based on
criteria derived from the Zoning Code.
   (C)   The subdivider shall be responsible for the establishment of required
trees and such responsibility shall extend for one year from the date of
original planting. A bond shall be posted to ensure the planting and
replacement of trees. The amount of the bond shall be based on the estimated
costs of planting and establishing the required trees, and may be reduced as
trees are planted.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.076 SUBDIVISION INFORMATION SIGNS.
   The developer of each subdivision, other than a minor subdivision, may erect
on the site of the subdivision informational signs meeting the following
criteria:
   (A)   The signs shall be placed at each entrance to the subdivision so as to
be clearly visible from the public streets providing access to the subdivision.
Signs shall not be placed in the public right-of-way.
   (B)   The signs may be erected prior to the start of construction and may
remain until all of the lots have been sold, unless prior permission to remove
same is granted by the Planning Commission.
   (C)   The signs shall be four square feet in size, of materials and design
as approved by the Director, and shall state the name (and phase, if
applicable) of the subdivision and note that “Information on this subdivision
may be obtained from the Village of Waynesville at (513) 897-8015”.
   (D)   Maintenance of the sign shall be the responsibility of the developer.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.077 HILLSIDE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Cuts and fills. No land shall be graded, cut, or filled so as to
create a slope exceeding a vertical rise of one foot for each two and one-half
feet of horizontal distance between abutting lots, or between adjoining tracts
of land, unless a retaining wall of sufficient height and thickness is provided
to retain the graded bank, or other acceptable control measures are provided.
   (B)   Compaction of fill. All fill outside the right-of-way shall be
compacted to a density of 90% dry density or greater, to within four inches of
finished grade.
   (C)   Retaining walls. Retaining walls may be required whenever topographic
conditions warrant or where necessary to retain fill or cut slopes within the
right-of-way. Such improvements shall require the approval of the Village
Engineer.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.078 PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES.
   (A)   Mandatory land dedication.  
      (1)   The subdivider shall be required to set aside in all platted
subdivisions acreage for the provision of public areas. Such public areas shall
be used as sites for public parks, open space, and recreational areas. The
amount of acreage to be set aside shall comply with the following schedule:
 
Zoning District Percent of Net Developable Site
R-1             2.5
R-2 and R-3     5.0
R-4 and R-5     7.5
R-6             7.5
AR-1            10.0
PRD             20.0
 
      (2)   Such lands may be deeded to the village and thereby developed and
managed by the village or held, developed, and maintained by a private
association, the bylaws and creation of which shall be by approval of the
Village Council as an element of the subdivision platting process. The title to
dedicated land shall be transferred to the village within 60 days of final plat
approval.
      (3)   Land proposed for open space shall be suitable for public parks,
open space, or recreational purposes. The Planning Commission, with the advice
of the Park Board, may review and reject the proposed acreage if such site is
not appropriate for the intended use given environmental, technical, or land
use considerations. In such circumstances, the Planning Commission shall
request alternative sites, which may or may not be provided on-site.
   (B)   Fees in-lieu of dedication. The applicant may request the payment of
fees in-lieu of the total or a portion of the mandatory land dedication to the
Planning Commission which, with the advice of the Village Park Board, shall
make a recommendation to the Village Council relative to such a request. The
amount of fees to be paid shall be equal to the assessed value of the acreage
that would have been dedicated to the village under the land dedication
requirement.
   (C)   Payment, deposit, and use of fees. Fees in-lieu of land dedication
shall be paid to the village within 60 days following final plat approval. Such
fees shall be placed in a special fund that records of which shall be available
for public inspection. Such funds shall only be used by the village for the
acquisition and development of public parks, recreation facilities, and open
space.
   (D)   Additional reservation of public land. Where adopted planning
documents recommend sites for public schools, parks, or other public
facilities, including open space, such lands shall be set in reserve by the
owner for a period not to exceed five years from the date of recording of the
approved subdivision plat. The school district in the case of a recommended
school site, or the village in the case of parks, public facilities and open
space, may purchase the reserves by the end of the five-year period for the
fair market value as calculated by a current appraisal prepared by a certified
appraiser. Failure to purchase any reserves within the five-year period shall
revert use of the property to the owner.
   (E)   Park fee. A park fee for each dwelling unit shall be paid to the
village by the developer or builder of any residential structure prior to
issuance of a certificate of zoning compliance or building permit. Such fee
shall be deposited in a special fund and expended by the village for the
improvement and purchase of recreational facilities and equipment excluding
maintenance and maintenance equipment.
   (F)   Minor subdivision. Minor subdivisions shall not be exempt from land
dedication or payment in lieu of dedication requirements, and payment of park
fees.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.079 SEWAGE DISPOSAL AND WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   General policy. Connection to village central sewer and water systems
shall be required for all subdivisions within the village.
   (B)   Exemptions for minor subdivisions (lot splits). Exemptions may be
granted for minor subdivisions by the Planning Commission, subject to the
following:
      (1)   Central sewer and water systems are not available;
      (2)   A minimum lot area of 25,000 square feet and minimum lot width of
100 feet shall be provided for each lot proposed for exemption; and
      (3)   The subdivider provides written evidence from the applicable health
or environmental agency indicating that the lots proposed for exemption can be
properly serviced with systems other than central sewer and water systems.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.080 VARIANCES AND REVISIONS.
   (A)   Hardships and findings of fact - criteria. Where the Board of Zoning
and Building Appeals finds that extraordinary hardships may result from strict
compliance with this chapter and/or the purposes of this chapter may be served
to a greater extend by an alternative proposal, it may approve variances to
this chapter so that substantial justice may be done and the public interest
secured; provided, that such variance shall not have the effect of nullifying
any intent or purpose of this chapter; and further provided the Board shall not
approve variances unless it shall make findings based upon the evidence
presented to it in each specific case that:
      (1)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health, or welfare or injurious to other property;
      (2)   The conditions upon which the request for a variance is based are
unique to the property for which the variance is sought and are not applicable
generally to other property;
      (3)   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape, or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of this chapter are carried out; and/or
      (4)   Variances contrary to other applicable guidelines and ordinances
shall not be granted.
   (B)   Conditions. In approving variances, the Board may require such
conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives of the
standards or requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.081 EASEMENTS.
   The following standards shall govern the provision of easements.
   (A)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way,
channel, storm conduit, or stream, there shall be provided to the village a
stormwater easement or drainage right-of-way conforming substantially with the
lines of such watercourse and containing additional width as required for
maintenance.
   (B)   Easements, a minimum of ten feet in width, shall be provided adjacent
to each side of and contiguous with all proposed rights-of-way. Such easements
shall be used for any and all public or private underground utilities.
   (C)   Utility or drainage easements across lots or along side or rear lot
lines shall be a minimum 20 feet in width. The Village Engineer may require
additional width where appropriate, based on the proposed usage. If a proposed
utility is outside the right-of-way, a minimum of seven and one-half feet of
clearance must be provided between the centerline of the proposed utility and
the edge of the easement. If a proposed utility is within the right-of-way, an
easement must be provided adjacent to the right-of-way if the utility is less
than seven and one-half feet from the right-of-way line.
   (D)   Where subdivisions are adjacent to schools, parks, or other public
facilities, access easements shall be provided to those facilities where deemed
appropriate by the Planning Commission. Such access easement shall be a minimum
of 20 feet in width and side yard setbacks for adjacent lots shall be measured
from the easement.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.082 PRIVATE UTILITIES.
   All utilities (including, but not limited to, gas, electric, telephone, and
CATV cables) shall be located underground throughout the subdivision. Utility
junction boxes and other above ground appurtenances shall be placed at the rear
of lots unless otherwise stipulated by the Village Engineer. Wherever existing
utility facilities are above ground, unless otherwise stipulated by the Village
Engineer, they shall be placed underground.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.083 PROTECTION OF WELLS.
   Where a subdivision is proposed to be located in an area identified as a
wellhead protection area in the Zoning Code of the village, or in which there
are existing water wells within 300 feet of proposed sanitary sewers, the
applicant shall provide a wellhead protection plan and data sufficient for the
Planning Commission to determine the potential impact of the installation of
underground utilities within the subdivision on the water table servicing the
wells. The Village Engineer shall determine if a high probability for impact
exists. If so, the Planning Commission may require that an approved barrier
method be placed on underground lines in such locations as the Village Engineer
shall designate to control the impact. Furthermore, the village may require
wellhead protection easements, groundwater monitoring, and other protective
actions in accordance with the wellhead protection provisions of the Zoning
Code of the village (see § 153.178 of these codified ordinances).
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.084 PROTECTION OF HISTORIC PROPERTIES.
   Where a subdivision is proposed to be located in an area designated as an
Historic District by the village, or where any historic place, building,
structure, work of art, or similar object listed on the Ohio Historic
Inventory, the National Register of Historic Places, or the village’s Historic
Preservation Plan, exists on the tract, a plan for protection and preservation
of the historic property shall be prepared by the applicant and submitted to
the Historic Preservation Board of the village by the Planning Commission for
review and comment before approval of any plat is granted. The Village Planning
Commission, with the advice of the Historic Preservation Board, may modify or
reject the preservation plan. For tracts located within a designated Historic
District of the village, the Historic Preservation Board shall issue a
certificate of appropriateness as provided by the Zoning Code of the village
before approval of any plat is granted (see §§ 153.080 through 153.094 of these
codified ordinances).
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
BONDS, DEPOSITS, AND INSURANCE
§ 152.100 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to final approval of any plat, the following bonds, deposits, and
insurance policies shall be provided by the subdivider.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.101 BONDING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Upon approval of a final plat by Council, the subdivider shall furnish
a performance bond or other acceptable security prior to endorsement of the
plat by the Village Manager. The bond shall be in one of the following forms.
      (1)   (a)   The subdivider shall deposit a cash security with a local
bank in the amount of 100% of the estimated cost of the improvements (storm
sewers, sanitary sewers, water lines, pavements, landscaping, and the like,
excluding sidewalks). The security shall be in favor of the village who shall
have sole control of disbursement. The local bank shall be directed to pay out
portions of the cash security towards the completion of the improvements to the
subdivider only with the approval of the Village Engineer, who may require a
balance to be maintained, which in his or her opinion, is sufficient to
complete said improvements in accordance with the plans and specifications of
the village and shall authorize the release of any balance to the subdivider
only upon acceptance of the improvements by Council.
         (b)   The Director, Village Manager, and the Village Engineer, in
consultation with the subdivider, shall establish a time period for the
completion of required improvements. In the event the improvements are not
constructed within the designated time period and not maintained, the village
shall have the option after 30 days written notice to the subdivider to
complete and maintain the improvements and to collect and receive from the
local bank any remaining balance of the deposit to be applied toward payment of
costs and expenses of completing the improvements.
      (2)   The subdivider may furnish corporate surety bond in the principal
amount of the estimated cost of the improvements with surety to the
satisfaction of the Manager and Council, in such a form approved by the Law
Director, guaranteeing completion and maintenance of the improvements according
to plans, profiles, and specifications and to the satisfaction of the Village
Engineer. The bond shall remain in effect until the improvements have been
completed and maintained as provided in these regulations and until released by
authority of Council. The bond shall provide that upon default of performance
by the subdivider, the village may complete the same after 30 days written
notice.
      (3)   The subdivider may petition the village, at the village discretion,
to construct the improvements and assess the total against the benefitted lots.
This procedure may be followed upon conditions that the subdivider furnishes
the village with a bond, with surety to the satisfaction of the Manager and
Council, guaranteeing the payment of the assessments as they fall due. The bond
may provide that as structures are constructed and sold to the individual
owners the amount of the bond shall be reduced not more than once each year in
proportion to the amount of the assessment against such lots. When structures
have been completely constructed on 75% of the lots, the bond shall be
released.
   (B)   In addition to the required performance bond, a maintenance
(restoration) bond shall be posted by the developer and shall be in effect for
at least one year after the acceptance of the public improvements by the
Village Council. The bond shall be to insure repair of any damage done to
existing curb, gutter, sidewalk, driveways, street pavement, landscaping, or
other items within the right-of-way adjacent to a subdivision, and damages as a
result of construction traffic, uncontrolled erosion and sedimentation, and the
like. The amount of the bond shall be a minimum of 10% of the estimated cost of
the improvements as determined by the Village Engineer plus any additional
amount the Village Engineer deems necessary to insure repair of any damaged
facilities. Restoration bonds shall be released when all damaged facilities, if
any, have been restored to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer. Where the
subdivider is aggrieved by a decision of the Village Engineer, he or she may
appeal the decision to the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.102 INDEMNITY INSURANCE.
   A policy of indemnity insurance in the amount of $500,000/$1,000,000
personal liability and $1,000,000 property damage protecting the village
against any claims for damage to person or property resulting from or by reason
of the construction of the above mentioned improvements shall be furnished to
the village and maintained in force by the subdivider. The insurance policy
shall remain in full force and effect until all improvements are completed and
maintained to the satisfaction of the Village Council.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.115 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT GENERALLY.
   Administration of these regulations shall be as set forth herein and in
accordance with the following.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.116 WAIVERS.
   The Village Council, where they find extraordinary and unnecessary hardship
may result from strict compliance with these regulations as a result of
topographic or other physical conditions, may waive such requirements;
provided, that such a waiver does not violate the intent of these regulations
and will not be detrimental to the public interest. Under no circumstances
shall waiver be granted under this section to any requirements of the Zoning
Code.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.117 PLAT ADJUSTMENTS.
   No changes shall be made to any final plat after approval by Village Council
except that minor technical adjustments or corrections which do not
significantly change the plat as approved may be made with the approval of the
Village Manager and Village Engineer.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.118 TESTING.
   Testing to ensure compliance with the standards contained in this chapter
shall be required by the Village Engineer and shall be at the expense of the
subdivider.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.119 VACATION OF PLATS.
   The owner of any platted property may request vacation of any plat or
portion thereof by filing a written instrument declaring the plat or portion
thereof to be vacated. Such instrument shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission who shall review same and make a recommendation to the Village
Council. Council may approve or reject any such instrument. A two-thirds
majority vote by Council is required to overturn a recommendation by the
Planning Commission. Upon approval by Council, the instrument may be recorded
in like manner as plats of subdivisions and shall operate to destroy the force
and effect of the plat, or portion thereof, so vacated.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Vacation of plats, alternate procedures authorized, see R.C. §§ 711.17 et
seq.
§ 152.120 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who fails to comply with, or violates, any
of the subdivision regulations or R.C. Chapter 711 shall be subject to the
penalties as set forth in R.C. Chapter 711.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Violation of rules and regulations, penalty, see R.C. § 711.102
§ 152.121 APPEALS.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who believes he or she has been aggrieved
by these regulations has all the rights of appeal as set forth in R.C. Chapter
711.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.122 NOTICES.
   The Director shall serve a written notice or order upon the person
responsible whenever the Director is satisfied that any work is being done or
any transactions are being made in violation of the provisions of these
subdivision regulations. Such notice shall direct the discontinuance of any
illegal action and the remedying of the condition that is in violation. In case
such notice or order is not promptly complied with, the Director shall stop all
services to the property where such violation is concerned and to refuse such
services until the violation is corrected. The Director may also request the
Law Director to institute the appropriate action or proceeding at law or equity
to restrain, correct, remove, or prosecute such violation.
(Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 152.123 FEE SCHEDULE FOR SUBDIVISION SUBMITTALS.
   Subdividers or developers shall be responsible for payment of the following
fees, such payment to be submitted with the plats.
   (A)   For processing of a preliminary subdivision plat, the sum as set forth
in the village’s fee schedule, as adopted by reference in §
36.05.
   (B)   For processing of a final subdivision plat, the sum as set forth in
the village’s fee schedule, as adopted by reference in §
36.05.
   (C)   For processing minor subdivision plats which require improvement
plans, the sum as set forth in the village’s fee schedule, as adopted by
reference in §
36.05.
   (D)   For processing minor subdivision plats which do not require
improvement plans, the sum as set forth in the village’s fee schedule, as
adopted by reference in §
36.05.
   (E)   For processing resubmittals of the final plat, the sum as set forth in
the village’s fee schedule, as adopted by reference in §
36.05. Processing of resubmittals of improvement plans are subject to a fee of
up to 50% of the original fees as set forth above.
   (F)   A retainer for inspection and supervision of construction in the
amount of 4.5% of the estimated cost of construction will be deposited by the
subdivider or developer with the village prior to recordation of the plat, such
detailed estimate of construction costs prepared by the subdivider or developer
and approved by the Village Engineer.
   (G)   Tests performed for the village by commercial laboratories to verify
compliance with construction standards shall be billed to the subdivider or
developer at the rates as charged by the laboratory.
   (H)   Other third party professional expenses incurred by the village will
be paid by the subdivider or developer in accordance with §
36.01 of these codified ordinances (Ord. 95-194). The village may require an
advance deposit to cover this obligation, with any surplus to be refunded at
once and any deficiency to be paid by the applicant immediately.
(Ord. 96-102, passed 1-16-1996; Ord. 96-106, passed 3-20-1996)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Title
   
153.002   Authority
   
153.003   Jurisdiction
   
153.004   Effective date
   
153.005   Purpose
   
153.006   Relationship to existing zoning ordinance
   
153.007   Relationship to comprehensive planning
   
153.008   No use or sale of land or buildings except in conformity with chapter
provisions
   
153.009   Severability
   
153.010   Conflicting ordinances
   
153.011   Amendments; effective date and referendum
   
153.012   Definitions
   
153.013   Relationship to public works and buildings
   
153.014   Public right-of-way construction standards
   
153.015   Demolition permits
   
153.016   Certificates of occupancy
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.030   Enforcement by Director of Inspection and Engineering
   
153.031   Certificate of zoning compliance
   
153.032   Application procedure
   
153.033   Review procedure
   
153.034   Issuance and expiration
   
153.035   Violations; remedies
   
153.036   Complaints
   
153.037   Failure to act
   
153.038   Technical Review Group
   
153.039   Director of Inspection and Engineering
   
153.040   Planning Commission; Board of Zoning and Building Appeals; Village
Council
   
153.041   Amendments
   
153.042   Conditional uses
   
153.043   Variances
   
153.044   Nonconforming lots, uses, and structures
   
153.045   Schedule of fees
Site Development Plans
   
153.060   Purpose and intent
   
153.061   Site development plans required
   
153.062   Preparation
   
153.063   Approval process
   
153.064   Preliminary site plans
   
153.065   Final site plans
   
153.066   Required improvements
   
153.067   Administration and enforcement
Historic Preservation Districts and Listed Properties
   
153.080   Declaration of public policy and purpose
   
153.081   Definitions
   
153.082   Establishment of the Waynesville Historic Preservation District
   
153.083   Establishment of the Historic Preservation Board
   
153.084   Organization and procedure of the Board
   
153.085   Duties of the Board
   
153.086   Limitations on issuance of building, demolition and sign permits
   
153.087   Issuance of certificate of appropriateness
   
153.088   Criteria for evaluating application for certificate of
appropriateness
   
153.089   Exclusions
   
153.090   Provisions of subchapter prevail in case of conflict
   
153.091   Designation criteria for additional preservation districts and listed
properties
   
153.092   Procedure for establishing preservation districts and listing of
properties
   
153.093   Violations and enforcement
   
153.094   Appeals procedures
Districts Established
   
153.110   Division into districts
   
153.111   Boundaries; zoning map
   
153.112   Vacated street or alley
   
153.113   Annexations
General Zoning Regulations
   
153.130   Conformance required
   
153.131   Prohibited uses
   
153.132   Conversion to dwellings
   
153.133   Accessory buildings without main building
   
153.134   Required area or space cannot be reduced
   
153.135   Unsafe buildings
   
153.136   Pending applications for building permits
   
153.137   Corner lot visibility
   
153.138   Storage of construction materials
   
153.139   Objectionable element or condition
   
153.140   Platting required
   
153.141   Building lines established
   
153.142   Prohibition of mineral extraction
   
153.143   Modification of development standards
   
153.144   Corner lot setbacks
   
153.145   One use per recorded lot
   
153.146   Multiple commercial/manufacturing uses permitted
   
153.147   Location of vending machines
   
153.148   Vehicle sales
   
153.149   Architectural design requirements and architectural review guidelines
for nonresidential developments outside of historic districts
   
153.150   Medical marijuana prohibition
District Regulations
   
153.165   Limited Density Residential District (R-1)
   
153.166   Low Density Residential District (R-2 and R-3)
   
153.167   Medium Density Residential District (R-4 and R-5)
   
153.168   Two-Family Residential District (R-6)
   
153.169   Multi-Family Residential District (AR-1)
   
153.170   Neighborhood Commercial District (NC)
   
153.171   General Commercial District (GC)
   
153.172   Suburban Office and Institution District (SO)
   
153.173   Limited Manufacturing District (LM)
   
153.174   Planned Districts (PRD, PCD, PID, PUD)
   
153.175   Overlay Districts (LC and LR)
   
153.176   Floodplain District (FP)
   
153.177   Exceptional Use District (EU)
   
153.178   Wellhead Protection District (WHP)
Supplemental Regulations
   
153.190   Swimming pools
   
153.191   Open storage and display of material
   
153.192   Public nuisance regulations
   
153.193   Land dedications and in-lieu fees
   
153.194   Mobile homes, modular homes, recreational and camping vehicles
   
153.195   Keeping of horses
   
153.196   Fences and hedges
   
153.197   Home occupations
   
153.198   Satellite ground stations
   
153.199   Wireless telephone facility regulations
   
153.200   Accessory uses and structures
   
153.201   Bed and breakfast inns
   
153.202   Recreational equipment
Height, Area and Yard Modifications
   
153.215   Height modifications
   
153.216   Yard projections
   
153.217   Lot area requirements; private sanitary facilities
   
153.218   Assigned yards for arrangement of structures
Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
153.230   Off-street parking generally
   
153.231   Dimensions
   
153.232   Schedule of parking spaces
   
153.233   Development standards
   
153.234   Access drives
   
153.235   Off-street loading
   
153.236   Limitations in residential districts
   
153.237   Commercial parking in residential areas
Signs
   
153.250   Purpose and scope
   
153.251   General provisions
   
153.252   Signs prohibited in all zoning districts
   
153.253   Exemptions
   
153.254   Regulations for signs in residential districts, Planned Residential
District (PRD), Planned Unit District (PUD), and Limited Residential Overlay
District (LR)
   
153.255   Regulations in commercial and planned commercial districts
   
153.256   Regulations in the Limited Manufacturing District (LM)
   
153.257   Temporary signs
   
153.258   Legal nonconformity
   
153.259   Removal and disposition of signs
   
153.260   Permits, fees and inspections
   
153.261   Violations, penalties and appeals
Landscaping and Screening
   
153.275   Purpose
   
153.276   Development standards
   
153.277   Landscape standards
   
153.278   Submittal requirements
   
153.279   Installation and maintenance
   
153.280   Woodlands
   
153.281   Public spaces
   
153.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Citizen Participation Plan Guidelines adopted, see §
37.03
   Code Enforcement Officer, see §
31.02
Statutory reference:
   Municipal planning and zoning, see R.C. Chapter 713
   Violation of zoning ordinances, see R.C. § 713.13
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 TITLE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known and may be designated and cited as “The
Village of Waynesville, Ohio, Zoning Ordinance,” and heretofore and hereafter
may be referred to as “this chapter”, “the zoning ordinance”, “Zoning Code”, or
“code”.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this chapter as those governing the interpretation
of the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.002 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority contained in R.C. Chapter
713 and the Village Charter.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.003 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall be effective throughout the village’s planning
jurisdiction. The village’s planning jurisdiction comprises the area within the
corporate boundaries of the village.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.004 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The provisions of this chapter were originally adopted and became effective
on November 7, 1996, and as subsequently amended.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.005 PURPOSE.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements unless otherwise stated
herein; adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, convenience,
comfort, prosperity, and the general welfare by regulating and restricting the
location of buildings and other structures and of premises to be used for
trade, industry, residences and other specified uses; by regulating and
limiting the height of buildings and other structures hereafter erected or
altered; by regulating the bulk and location of buildings or other structures
hereafter erected or altered, the percentage of lot occupancy, setback building
lines and the area of yards, courts and other open spaces; and for all of the
purposes herein before described, by dividing the village into districts as
herein provided, which districts are deemed and determined best suited to carry
out such purposes.
   (B)   Whenever the requirements of this chapter are at variance with the
requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations, ordinances, or
resolutions, the most restrictive or that imposing the higher standards shall
govern.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.006 RELATIONSHIP TO EXISTING ZONING ORDINANCE.
   This Zoning Code is adopted in whole and is a replacement of the Zoning
Ordinance of Waynesville of 1985, as amended, which was repealed by the Village
Council effective November 7, 1996.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.007 RELATIONSHIP TO COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING.
   It is the intention of the Village Council that this chapter shall implement
the planning policies adopted by the Village Council for the village, as
reflected in a Comprehensive Plan, Land Use Plan, and all other planning
documents formally adopted by the Village Council. While the Council reaffirms
its commitment that this code and any amendment to it be in conformity with
adopted planning policies, the Council hereby expresses its intent that neither
this code nor any amendment to it may be challenged on the basis of any alleged
nonconformity with any planning document.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
Cross-reference:
   Comprehensive Plan adopted, see §
150.03
§ 153.008 NO USE OR SALE OF LAND OR BUILDINGS EXCEPT IN CONFORMITY WITH CHAPTER
PROVISIONS.
   Subject to §
153.044, no person may use, occupy, or sell any land or buildings or authorize
or permit the use, occupancy, or sale of land or buildings under his or her
control except in accordance with all of the applicable provisions of this
code. For purposes of this section, the “use” or “occupancy” of a building or
land relates to anything and everything that is done to, on, or in that
building or land.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.009 SEVERABILITY.
   Each subchapter, section, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase, or other
devisable part of this Zoning Code is hereby declared to be severable and if
any such subchapter, section, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase, or other
divisible part is declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court
of competent jurisdiction in a valid judgment or decree, such
unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining
subchapters, sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, phrases, or other
devisable part of this chapter because the same would have been enacted without
the incorporation into this chapter of such unconstitutional or invalid
subchapter, section, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase, or other devisable
part.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.010 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   Where conflicts exist between requirements of this Zoning Code and
ordinances adopted by Village Council, the most strict interpretation shall
apply and thereby supersede the less strict requirements.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.011 AMENDMENTS; EFFECTIVE DATE AND REFERENDUM.
   (A)   Amendments, as in §
153.041, adopted by Village Council shall become effective 30 days after the
date of such adoption. Such amendment fails to become effective if, within 30
days after the passage of the ordinance, there is presented to the Village
Clerk a petition, signed by a number of qualified voters residing in the
village equal to but not less than 10% of the total vote cast in such area at
the last preceding general election at which a Governor was elected, requesting
the Village Council to submit such ordinance to the electors of the village for
approval or rejection at the next general election.
   (B)   No amendment for which such referendum vote has been requested shall
be put into effect unless a majority of the vote cast on the issue is in favor
of the amendment. Upon certification by the applicable County Board of
Elections that the amendment has been approved by the voters, it shall take
immediate effect.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.012 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General definitions. Words denoting the masculine gender shall be
deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders. Words in the singular shall
include the plural and words in the plural shall include the singular. A
general term following specific enumeration of terms is not to be limited to
the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
   (B)   General interpretation. Except where specifically defined herein, all
words used in this Zoning Code shall carry customary meanings. Words used in
the present tense include the future tense; the plural includes the singular
and the singular includes the plural; the word “lot” includes the words
“parcel” and “plot”; the word “building” includes the word “structure”; the
word “shall” is a mandatory requirement, the word “may” is a permissive
requirement, and the word “should” is a preferred requirement; the words “used”
or “occupied” include the words “intended, designed or arranged to be used or
occupied”; and the word “person” includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company, or corporation as well as an individual. Words not
particularly defined herein shall be defined as found in The Illustrated Book
of Development Definitions, Center for Urban Policy Research, Rutgers
University. If not defined therein, words shall be defined as found in
Webster’s New Universal Unabridged Dictionary.
   (C)   Specific definitions.
      ACCESS DRIVE. A way or means of approach to provide physical entrance to
a property, as in driveway or curb cut.
      ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use of land or of a structure or portion
thereof customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use of the land
or structure and located on the same lot with such principal use.
      ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited
wherein coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically, or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other
image-producing devices are regularly maintained to show images to five or
fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon matter exhibiting or
describing “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial
establishment which has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock-
in-trade or derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues or
devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display space
to the sale or rental, for any form of consideration, of any one or more of the
following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides, or
other visual representations which are characterized by their emphasis upon the
exhibition or description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas”;
         (b)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for
use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of themselves or others; or
         (c)   An establishment may have other principal business purposes that
do not involve the offering for sale, rental, or viewing of materials
exhibiting or describing “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical
areas,” and still be categorized as adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or
adult video store. Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such
establishments from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, or adult video store so long as one of its principal business purposes
is offering for sale or rental, for some form of consideration, the specified
materials which exhibit or describe “specified anatomical areas” or “specified
sexual activities”.
      ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle club, or
similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are
served, which regularly features: persons who appear semi-nude; live
performances which are characterized by “specified sexual activities”, or
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or
description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT USES. Any use of a sexual nature, including retail
establishments selling publications and other material of a sexual nature,
adult motion picture theater used for presenting films and other material of a
sexual nature, and adult only entertainment establishment featuring services of
a sexual nature.
      ADULT MOTEL. A motel, hotel, or similar commercial establishment which:
offers public accommodations, for any form of consideration, which provides
patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion pictures,
video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which are
characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” and which
advertises the availability of this sexually oriented type of material by means
of a sign visible from the public right-of-way, or by means of any off-premises
advertising, including but not limited to, newspapers, magazines, pamphlets or
leaflets, radio, or television; or offers a sleeping room for rent for a period
of time less than ten hours; or allows a tenant or occupant to sub-rent the
sleeping room for a time period of less than ten hours.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where films,
motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic reproductions
which are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” are regularly
shown for any form of consideration.
      ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which, for any form of consideration, regularly features persons
who appear in state of semi-nudity or live performances which are characterized
by their emphasis upon “specified sexual activities”.
      AGENT. The representative of the applicant. The authority of the
representative shall be established to the satisfaction of the Village Manager.
      AGRICULTURE. The production, keeping, or maintenance, for sale, lease, or
personal use of plants and animals useful to humans, including, but not limited
to: forages and sod crops; grains and seed crops; dairy animals and dairy
products, poultry and poultry products; livestock, including beef cattle,
sheep, swine, horses, ponies, mules, or goats, or any mutations or hybrids
thereof, including the breeding and grazing of any or all of such animals; bees
and apiary products; fur animals; trees and forest products; fruits of all
kinds, including grapes, nuts and berries; vegetables; nursery, floral,
ornamental, and greenhouse products; or lands devoted to a soil conservation or
forestry management program.
      ALLEY or LANE. A public right-of-way not less than 20 feet or more than
30 feet wide which affords only a secondary means of access to property
abutting thereon.
      ALTERATION. Any change or rearrangement in the supporting members of an
existing building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders, or interior
partitions, as well as any change in doors or windows, or any enlargement to or
diminution of a building or structure, whether horizontally or vertically, or
the moving of a building or structure from one location to another.
      ANIMAL HOSPITAL. A place which animals or pets are given medical or
surgical treatment and the boarding of animals is limited to short-term care
incidental to the hospital use.
      ATTENTION-GETTING DEVICE. A device designed or intended to attract by
noise, sudden intermittent or rhythmic movement, physical change, or lighting
change, such as banners, flags, streamers, balloons, propellers, whirligigs,
search lights, and flashing lights.
      ATTIC. The part of a building which is immediately below and wholly or
partly within the roof framing.
      AUTOMOBILE. A self-propelled free moving vehicle, with four or more
wheels, primarily for conveyance on a street or roadway.
         (a)   AUTOMOBILE SALES or TRAILER SALES. The use of any building, land
area, or other premises for the display, sale, and rental of new or used
automobiles, panel trucks or vans, trailers, or recreation vehicles and where
warranty repair work and other repair service incidental to such sales is
conducted.
         (b)   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. Any building, land area or premises,
or portion thereof, used or intended to be used for the retail dispensing or
sales of vehicular fuels; and including as an accessory use the sale and
installation of lubricants, tires, batteries, and similar services.
         (c)   AUTOMOBILE WASH and AUTOMATIC CAR WASH. Any building or premises
or portions thereof where mechanical devices are used for washing automobiles.
         (d)   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR SERVICES and GARAGES. Establishments primarily
engaged in furnishing automobile repair, rental, leasing, and parking services
to the general public.
      AUTOMOTIVE. Motor vehicle dealers (new and/or used); truck dealers (new
and/or used); tire, battery, and accessory dealers; miscellaneous aircraft,
marine, and automotive dealers; automotive rentals; and automobile services
except repair.
      BASEMENT. A space having one-half or more of its floor-to-ceiling height
below the average level of the adjoining ground and with a floor-to-ceiling
height of not less than six and one-half feet.
      BEDROOM. A private room planned and intended for sleeping, separable from
other rooms by a door, and accessible to a bathroom without crossing another
bedroom or living room.
      BOARDING HOME FOR SHELTERED CARE. Home for the sheltered care of adult
persons which, in addition to providing food and shelter to four or more
persons unrelated to the proprietor, also provides any personal care or service
beyond orphans, foster children, the elderly, and battered persons.
      BUFFER STRIP. A land area used to visibly separate one use from another
or to shield or block noise, lights, or other nuisances.
      BUILDABLE AREA. The area of a lot remaining after the minimum yard and
open space requirements of this Zoning Code have been met.
      BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for the shelter, housing, or enclosure of any individual, animal,
process, equipment, goods, or materials of any kind or nature.
         (a)   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A subordinate structure on the same lot as
the principal or main building or use occupied or devoted to a use incidental
to the principal use.
         (b)   BUILDING COVERAGE. The horizontal area measured within the
outside of the exterior walls of the ground floor of all principal and
accessory buildings on a lot.
         (c)   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance of a building measured
from the average elevation of the finished grade within 20 feet of the
structure to the highest point of the roof.
         (d)   BUILDING LINE. A line parallel to the street line at a distance
therefrom equal to the depth of the front yard required for the zoning district
in which the lot is located.
         (e)   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. The main building or use occupied or
devoted to a permitted use on the property.
      CALIPER (TREE). The trunk diameter in inches of a tree measured at four
feet from the ground.
      CARPORT. A roofed structure providing space for the parking or storage of
motor vehicles and enclosed on not more than three sides.
      CARRY-OUT RESTAURANT. An establishment which by design of physical
facilities or by service or packaging procedures permits or encourages the
purchase of prepared ready-to-eat foods intended primarily to be consumed off
the premises, and where the consumption of food in motor vehicles on the
premises is not permitted or not encouraged.
      CEMETERY. Property used for the interring of the dead.
      CENSUS TRACT. Areas into which communities are divided by the United
States Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census, for statistical purposes.
      CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT. The east and west sides of Main Street from
the southern village corporation limit, north to Church Street, east on High,
Miami, North and Franklin Streets to State Route 42, west on South, High,
Miami, North and Chapman to first alley on the west side of Main Street.
      CERTIFIED ARBORIST. Any individual certified by the National Arborist
Association.
      CHIMNEY. A structure lesser in function than a smoke stack and containing
one or more flues for drawing off emissions from stationary sources of
combustion.
      CHURCH or HOUSE OF WORSHIP. A building or structure or groups of
buildings or structures which by design and construction are primarily intended
for the conducting of organized religious services and accessory uses
associated therewith.
      CLERK. The Clerk of Council of the village.
      CLUSTER. A development design technique that concentrates buildings in
specific areas on the site to allow the remaining land to be used for
recreation, common open space, and preservation of environmentally sensitive
features.
      COMMERCIAL USE. Any activity carried out for pecuniary gain.
      COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the village.
      COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION or HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION. An association organized
to own, maintain, and operate common facilities and to enhance and protect
their common interests.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The plan or plans made and adopted by the village as
may be amended, indicating the general locations recommended for the principal
streets, parks, public buildings, zoning districts, historic districts,
wellhead protection districts, character and extent of community development,
and other physical aspects of urban and rural planning.
      CONDOMINIUM. A building or group of buildings in which units are owned
individually and the structure, common areas, and facilities are owned by all
the owners on a proportional, undivided basis.
      CONDOMINIUM ASSOCIATION. The community association which administers and
maintains the common property and common elements of a condominium.
      CONGREGATE HOUSING. A dwelling providing shelter and services for the
elderly which may include meals, housekeeping, and personal care assistance.
      CONVENIENCE FOOD MARKET. A retail establishment offering for sale limited
food, beverage, and related consumer products with or without on premises
preparation of food and beverages.
      COUNCIL. The Village Council of the village.
      COUNTY. Warren County, Ohio.
      CRAWL SPACE. A space with more than one-half of its floor-to-ceiling
height below the average level of the adjoining ground and with a floor-to-
ceiling height of less than six and one-half feet.
      CUSTOMARY AGRICULTURAL OPERATIONS. See AGRICULTURE.
      DAY CARE CENTER. A private establishment enrolling children and where
tuition, fees, or other forms of compensation for the care of the children is
charged, and which is licensed or approved to operate as a day care center.
      DECORATIVE FEATURES. Any approved natural or constructed feature,
including mulch, gravel, stone, brick, sculpture, and lighting.
      DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per unit of land. To determine
DENSITY, divide the total number of dwelling units by the net developable site
as measured in acres. (See NET DEVELOPABLE SITE).
      DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate.
      DIRECTOR. The Director of Inspection and Engineering of the village, or
authorized representative.
      DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY AN EMPHASIS UPON. The dominant or
principal theme of the object described by such phrase. For instance, when the
phrase refers to films
“which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis upon the exhibition or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas”, the
films so described are those whose dominant or principal character and theme
are the exhibition or description of the enumerated sexual activities.
      DRIVE-IN (DRIVE THRU) RESTAURANT. A building or portion thereof where
food and/or beverages are sold in a form ready for consumption and where all or
a significant portion of the consumption takes place or is designed to take
place outside the confines of the building, often in a motor vehicle on or off
the site.
      DRIVE-IN (DRIVE THRU) USE. An establishment which by design, physical
facilities, service, or by packaging procedures encourages or permits customers
to receive services, obtain goods, or be entertained while remaining in their
motor vehicles.
      DWELLING. A structure or portion thereof in which person or persons
reside.
         (a)   DWELLING, ATTACHED. A one-family dwelling attached to two or
more one-family dwellings by common vertical walls.
         (b)   DWELLING, DETACHED. A dwelling which is not attached to any
other dwelling by any means.
         (c)   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A dwelling containing more than two
dwelling units.
         (d)   DWELLING, SEMI-DETACHED. A one-family dwelling attached to one
other one- family dwelling by a common vertical wall, and each dwelling located
on a separate lot.
         (e)   DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE. A one-family dwelling in a row of at least
three such units in which each unit has its own front and rear access to the
outside, no unit is located over another unit, and each unit is separated from
any other unit by one or more common fire resistant walls.
         (f)   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A structure on a single lot containing two
dwelling units, each of which is totally separated from the other by an
unpierced wall extending from ground to roof or an unpierced ceiling and floor
extending from exterior wall to exterior wall, except for a common stairwell
exterior to both dwelling units.
         (g)   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms, designed, occupied or intended
for occupancy as separate living quarters, with cooking, sleeping, and sanitary
facilities provided within the dwelling unit for the exclusive use of a single-
family maintaining a household.
         (h)   DWELLING UNIT, EFFICIENCY. A dwelling unit consisting of not
more than one habitable room together with kitchen or kitchenette and sanitary
facilities.
      EASEMENT. A grant of one or more of the property rights by the property
owner to and/or for the use by the public, a corporation, or another person or
entity.
      ELDERLY HOUSEHOLD. Not more than two persons, related or unrelated, who
occupy a single dwelling unit of whom at least one person is an elderly person.
      ELDERLY MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING. A building or buildings containing 12 or
more dwelling units where occupancy is restricted to elderly households.
      ELDERLY PERSON. A person who is 62 years of age or older.
      EMPLOY, EMPLOYEE, and EMPLOYMENT. Describe and pertain to any person who
performs any service on the premises of a sexually oriented business, on a
full-time, part-time, or contract basis, whether or not the person is
denominated an employee, independent contractor, agent, or otherwise. EMPLOYEE
does not include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance
of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
      ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The Zoning Enforcement Officer of the village as
designated by the Village Manager.
      EPIPHYTOTIC. The sudden and destructive development of a plant disease,
usually over large areas. Corresponds to an epidemic of a human disease.
      ESTABLISHED or ESTABLISHMENT. Includes any of the following:
         (a)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as
a new business;
         (b)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a
sexually oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
         (c)   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business; or
         (d)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
      EXCAVATION. The removal or recovery by any means whatsoever of soil,
rock, mineral substances, or organic substances other than vegetation, from
water or land on or beneath the surface thereof, or beneath the land surface,
whether exposed or submerged.
      EXTENDED CARE FACILITY. A long-term care facility or a distinct part of a
facility licensed or approved as a nursing home, infirmary unit of a home for
the aged, or a governmental medical institution.
      EXTENSION. A physical expansion of an existing structure.
      FAMILY. One or more individuals occupying a dwelling unit and living as a
single household unit.
      FARM. A parcel of land used for agricultural activities.
      FARM ANIMALS. Those animals or livestock typically associated with a farm
or agricultural operation.
      FARM STAND. A booth or stall located on a farm from which produce and
farm products are sold to the general public.
      FAST-FOOD RESTAURANT. An establishment whose principal business is the
sale of pre- prepared or rapidly prepared food directly to the customer in a
ready-to-consume state for consumption either within the restaurant building or
off premises.
      FENCE. An artificially constructed barrier of any material or combination
of materials erected to enclose or screen areas of land.
      FINANCE DIRECTOR. The Finance Director of the village.
      FIRE CHIEF. The Fire Chief of Wayne Township Fire Department.
      FLOOR AREA, FINISHED. The sum of the gross horizontal area of all
interior floors of a residential building that are finished and heated,
excluding basements, breezeways, carports, garages, storage areas with only
outside access, porches, and other unheated and/or unfinished areas attached to
the dwelling.
      FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several
floors of a building measured from the exterior face of exterior walls, or from
the centerline of a wall separating two buildings, but not including interior
parking spaces, loading space for motor vehicles, or any space where the floor-
to-ceiling height is less than six feet.
      FLOOR AREA, GROUND. The sum of the gross horizontal area of the ground
floor of a residential building, excluding basements, breezeways, carports,
garages, storage areas with only outside access, porches, and other unheated
and/or unfinished areas attached to the dwelling.
      FLOOR AREA, NET. The total of all floor areas of a building, excluding
stairwells and elevator shafts, equipment rooms, interior vehicular parking or
loading; and all floors below the first or ground floor, except when used or
intended to be used for human habitation or service to the public.
      GARAGE. A deck, building, or structure, or part thereof, used or intended
to be used for the parking and storage of vehicles.
      GLARE. The effect produced by brightness sufficient to cause annoyance,
discomfort, or loss in visual performance and visibility.
      GROUP CARE FACILITY. A facility or dwelling unit housing persons
unrelated by blood or marriage and operating as a group family household.
      HISTORIC PRESERVATION BOARD. The Historic Preservation Board of the
village.
      HOME OCCUPATION. Any activity carried out for gain by a resident
conducted as an accessory use in the resident’s dwelling unit.
      IN-LIEU FEES. Fees paid by a private individual or party to the village
to compensate for the mandatory land dedication provisions of the Zoning Code
when the land dedication is waived by Village Council.
      INDUSTRIAL PARK. A large tract of land that has been planned, developed,
and operated as an integrated facility for a number of individual uses, with
special attention to circulation, parking, utility needs, aesthetics, and
compatibility.
      INOPERABLE VEHICLE. A vehicle that is not mechanically operable.
      INSTITUTIONAL USE. A nonprofit or quasi-public use or institution such as
a church or similar house of worship, library, public or private school,
hospital, or publicly-owned or operated building, structure, or land used for
public purpose.
      JUNKYARD. Any area, lot, land, parcel, building, or structure or part
thereof used for the storage, collection, processing, purchase, sale, or
abandonment of wastepaper, rags, scrap metal, or other scrap or discarded
goods, materials, machinery, or two or more unregistered, inoperable motor
vehicles or other type of junk.
      KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. Any building or buildings and/or land used, designed,
or arranged to facilitate the raising, breeding, boarding, and grooming of such
domesticated animals as dogs and cats for profit. Farm animals such as pigs and
fowl or exotic animals, such as snakes, are expressly prohibited.
      KENNEL, PRIVATE. Any building or buildings and/or land used, designed, or
arranged for the care of three or more dogs and/or cats belonging to the owner
of the principal use, kept for purposes of show, hunting, or as pets.
      LANDSCAPING. Any portion of a parcel of land that includes trees, shrubs,
bushes, planting bed, hedges, earth mounds, or other natural or decorative
material or feature.
      LAW DIRECTOR. The Law Director of the village.
      LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual or individuals listed as an
applicant on the application for sexually oriented business license. In case of
an “employee”, it shall mean the person in whose name the employee license has
been issued.
      LOT. A designated parcel, tract, or area of land established by plat,
subdivision, or as otherwise permitted by law, to be used, developed, or built
upon as a unit.
         (a)   LOT, BUILDABLE. A lot having the required street frontage as
required by the zoning district on an improved public right-of-way.
         (b)   LOT, CORNER. A lot or parcel of land abutting upon two or more
streets at their intersection, or upon two parts of the same street forming an
interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
         (c)   LOT COVERAGE. The portion of the lot that is covered by
buildings and structures.
         (d)   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot which fronts upon two parallel
streets, or which fronts upon two streets which do not intersect at the
boundaries of the lot.
      MANDATORY LAND DEDICATION. The mandatory dedication of private land to
the village for the purpose of providing space for park, recreation, open
space, and other public uses.
      MINI-WAREHOUSE. A structure containing separate storage spaces of varying
sizes leased or rented on an individual basis.
      MOBILE HOME. A structure intended for residential use which is designed
to permit its conveyance upon a public street by means of integral structural
elements consisting of a permanent chassis attached to axles, wheels, and a
towing hitch. MOBILE HOME specifically includes, but is not limited to, any
structure defined as a “manufactured home” under the provisions of the
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq., and any amendments thereto or regulations in supplement
thereof, whether or not the design of the structure has been approved and/or
certified by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
      MODULAR HOME. A structure intended for residential use which is
constructed or manufactured partially at an off-site facility then transported
to a permanent site where its construction is completed. MODULAR HOME
specifically includes, but is not limited to, structures without permanent
integrated chassis which are variously described as “precut”, “modular”, or
“panelized” homes or any structures which are constructed at one location and
transported to another location to be permanently placed.
      NET DEVELOPABLE SITE. The remainder of a parcels of land following the
subtraction of all areas designated for public and private streets and alleys,
open bodies of water excluding streams, creeks and ditches, and all other
dedicated rights-of-way.
      NO-BUILD ZONE. An area or portion of a lot that is designated by deed not
to contain any buildings, structures, or other built improvement on a permanent
basis.
      NONCONFORMANCE. A situation wherein the lawful conditions existing prior
to the adoption, revision, or amendment of the zoning ordinance fail by reason
of such adoption, revision, or amendment to conform to the present requirements
of the zoning district.
         (a)   NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot, the area, dimensions, or location of
which was lawful prior to the adoption, revision, or amendment of the zoning
ordinance, but which fails by reason of such adoption, revision, or amendment
to conform to the present requirements of the zoning district.
         (b)   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE OR BUILDING. A structure or building the
size, dimensions, or location of which was lawful prior to the adoption,
revision, or amendment to the zoning ordinance, but which fails by reason of
such adoption, revision, or amendment to conform to the present requirements of
the zoning district.
         (c)   NONCONFORMING USE. A use or activity which was lawful prior to
the adoption, revision, or amendment of the zoning ordinance, but which fails
by reason of such adoption, revision, or amendment to conform to the present
requirements of the zoning district.
      NONPOROUS. Excludes any wood, plywood, composition board, or other porous
materials.
      NUDITY or A STATE OF NUDITY.
         (a)   The appearance of the cleft of the buttocks, anus, male
genitals, female genitals, or areola of the female breast; or
         (b)   A state of dress which fails to opaquely cover the cleft of the
buttocks, anus, male genitals, female genitals, or areola of the female breast.
      NURSING HOME. An extended or intermediate care facility licensed or
approved to provide full-time convalescent or chronic care to individuals who,
by reason of advanced age, chronic illness, or infirmity, are unable to care
for themselves.
      OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE. A temporary storage area for a motor vehicle
that is directly accessible to an access aisle, and which is not located on a
dedicated street right-of-way.
      ON-STREET PARKING SPACE. A temporary storage area for a motor vehicle
which is located on a dedicated street right-of-way.
      ONE-AND-A-HALF-STORY. A residential dwelling having a ground floor and a
second floor equal to less than 100% of the finished floor area of the first
floor, under a gable, hip or gambrel roof, the wall plates of which on at least
two opposite exterior walls (also known as “knee wall”) are not more than five
feet above the floor of such story.
      OPACITY. A degree of obscuration of light.
      OPEN SPACE. Any parcel or area of land or water essentially unimproved
and set aside, dedicated, designated, or reserved for public or private use or
enjoyment, or for the use and enjoyment of owners and occupants of land
adjoining or neighboring such open space.
      OPEN SPACE, COMMON. Land within or related to a development, not
individually owned or dedicated for public use, which is designed and intended
for the common use or enjoyment of the residents of the development and may
include such complementary structures and improvements as are necessary and
appropriate.
      OPERATE or CAUSE TO BE OPERATED. To cause to function or to put or keep
in operation.
      OPERATOR. Any persons on the premises of a sexually oriented business who
is authorized to exercise overall operational control of the business or who
causes to function or who puts or keeps in operation the business. A person may
be found to be operating or causing to be operated a sexually oriented business
whether or not that person is an owner, part owner, or licensee of the
business.
      OUPS. The Ohio Underground Utilities Protection Service.
      OUTDOOR DISPLAY. The temporary outdoor display of material and
merchandise for the purposes of retail sales.
      OUTDOOR STORAGE. The keeping, in an unroofed area, of any goods, junk,
material, merchandise, or vehicles in the same place.
      OVERLAY DISTRICT. A type of zoning district that applies more restrictive
standards to an underlying zoning district.
      PARISH HOUSE. A residential structure, such as a parsonage, that is
subordinate to a church or other place of worship.
      PARK. A tract of land designated and designed for the use by members of
the public for active and passive recreation.
      PARK BOARD. The Park Board of the village.
      PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
      PERSONAL SERVICES. Establishments primarily engaging in providing
services involving the care of a person or his or her apparel.
      PLAN, IMPROVEMENT. Detailed construction drawings, maps, and other
materials depicting a proposed improvement.
      PLAT, FINAL. The plat of a proposed subdivision, drawn on durable
material and intended for recording, meeting all the requirements of the
subdivision ordinance of the village (see
Chapter 152 of these codified ordinances).
      PLAT, PRELIMINARY. The plat of a proposed subdivision that meets all the
requirements of the subdivision ordinance of the village (see
Chapter 152 of these codified ordinances).
      PRINCIPAL USE. The primary or predominant use of any lot.
      PUBLIC USE. A land use that is owned and/or operated by the public and is
accessible to the public.
      RECONSTRUCTION. The rebuilding or substantial remodeling of an existing
structure.
      RECREATIONAL AND CAMPING EQUIPMENT. Boats, boat trailers, snowmobiles,
snowmobile trailers, utility trailers, recreational and camping vehicles, horse
trailers, and other similar equipment.
      RECREATIONAL AND CAMPING VEHICLES. Vehicular-type structures primarily
designed as temporary living quarters for recreation, camping, or travel use
which either has its own motive power or is mounted on or drawn by another
vehicle which is self-powered.
      REGULARLY FEATURES or REGULARLY SHOWN. With respect to an adult theater
or adult cabaret, a consistent course of conduct, such that the films or
performances exhibited constitute a substantial portion of the films or
performances offered as a part of the regular business of the adult theater or
adult cabaret.
      RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. A zoning district in which residential uses are
included as permitted uses.
      RESTRICTIVE COVENANT. A restriction on the use of land usually set forth
in the deed.
      RETAIL SERVICES. Establishments providing services or entertainment as
opposed to products.
      SATELLITE GROUND STATION. A ground station or other antenna, including
dish antennas, designed to transmit or receive radio or television signals to
or from earth satellites.
      SCENIC EASEMENT. An easement, the purpose of which is to limit
development in order to preserve a view or scenic area.
      SCHOOL. Any building or portion thereof which is designed, constructed,
or used for educational or instruction in any branch of knowledge.
      SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region, and areola of the female breast, as well as portions of
the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
      SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person, who regularly appears
in a state of semi-nudity, is provided for money or any form of consideration
to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or
similarly depicted by other persons. It is a defense to prosecution for any
violation of this chapter that a person appearing in a state of nudity or semi-
nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
         (a)   By a college, junior college, or university supported entirely
or partly by taxation;
         (b)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
         (c)   In a structure:
            1.   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure
and no other advertising that indicates a semi-nude person is available for
viewing;
            2.   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must
enroll at least three days in advance of the class; and
            3.   Where no more than one semi-nude model is on the premises at
any one time.
      SETBACK. The distance between the street right-of-way line or any other
lot line and the front line of a building or any projection thereof, excluding
uncovered steps.
      SETBACK LINE. The line that is required minimum distance from the street
right-of-way line or any other lot line that establishes the area within which
the principal structure must be erected or placed.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT. A business or commercial establishment,
that as one of its principal business purposes, offers for any form of
consideration, a place where two or more persons may congregate, associate, or
consort for the purpose of “specified sexual activities” or when one or more of
the persons is semi-nude. The definition of “sexually oriented businesses”
shall not include an establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized sexual therapy.
      SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult
novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, or adult
entertainment out-call service in the form of semi-nude dancing or exhibition,
adult motion picture theater, adult theater, semi-nude model studio, or sexual
encounter establishment.
      SIGN. Any object, device, display, or structure, or part thereof,
situated outdoors or indoors, which is used to advertise, identify, display,
direct, or attract attention to an object, person, institution, organization,
business, product, service, event, or location by any means, including words,
letters, figures, design, symbols, fixtures, colors, illumination, or projected
images.
         (a)   SIGN, BANNER. A permitted temporary sign made of cloth fastened
to or supported by or from poles, posts, pillars, columns, uprights, braces, or
other structures, or fastened or affixed on a building in such a way that the
sign is wholly or partly dependent upon a building for support.
         (b)   SIGN, BILLBOARD. A sign which directs attention to a business,
commodity, service, or entertainment conducted, sold, or offered at a location
other than the premises on which the sign is located.
         (c)   SIGN, ELECTRONIC MESSAGE CENTER. A sign that provides
information electronically by emitting illumination at predetermined intensity
levels and changes messages in a manner that is not a distraction to motorists.
         (d)   SIGN, FREESTANDING. A non-movable sign supported by or from
poles, posts, pillars, columns, uprights, braces, constructed base, or other
structures on the ground and which are not affixed to a building.
         (e)   SIGN, PROJECTING. A sign that is wholly or partly dependent upon
a building for support and which projects more than 12 inches from such
building.
         (f)   SIGN, WALL. A sign fastened to or painted on the wall of a
building in such a manner that the wall becomes the supporting structure for,
or forms the background surface of the sign.
         (g)   SIGN, WINDOW. A sign fastened to, displayed in, or painted on
the surface of a window.
      SIGNIFICANT TREE. Any individual tree that is of cultural, historical,
biological, or horticultural value as determined by the Village Council with
the advice of the Planning Commission.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Human genitals in a state of sexual arousal;
the appearance of the cleft of the buttocks, anus, male or female genitals, or
areola of the female breast; or a state of dress which fails to opaquely cover
the cleft of the buttocks, anus, male or female genitals, or areola of the
female breast.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Has the same meaning as “sexual activity”, as
defined in R.C. § 2907.01(C).
      SPLIT LEVEL. A residential dwelling containing finished floor area on two
or more levels with not less than three feet nor more than six feet vertical
distance between the plane of one floor level and the place of the next higher
level.
      SPOT ZONING. The rezoning of a lot or parcel of land to benefit an owner
for a use incompatible with surrounding uses and not for the purpose or effect
of furthering the Comprehensive Zoning Plan of the village.
      STORY. That portion of a building, including between the surface of any
floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or, if there is no floor
above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
      STREET. Any vehicular way which is an existing state, county, municipal,
or village roadway: is shown upon a plat approved pursuant to law; is approved
by other official action; or is shown on a plat duly filed and recorded in the
office of the County Recorder prior to the appointment of the Planning
Commission and the grant to such Commission of the power to review plats; and
includes the land between the street lines, whether improved or unimproved.
         (a)   STREET, ARTERIAL. A street which accommodates traffic to and
from the expressways or to or through major commercial districts. Traffic
volumes are generally greater than 10,000 ADT (average daily traffic).
         (b)   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A street having only one outlet and a paved
terminal for safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
         (c)   STREET, DEAD-END. A local street having only one outlet without
a safe and convenient means for reversal of traffic.
         (d)   STREET, EXPRESSWAY. A street devoted to the movement of large
volumes of traffic at relatively high speeds. Access is completely controlled,
not intended to serve abutting property.
         (e)   STREET, INDUSTRIAL. A street intended to provide access to other
streets from industrial properties, generally being a volume of traffic that
includes a relatively large amount of vehicles other than passenger
automobiles.
         (f)   STREET, LOCAL. A street designed to provide vehicular access to
abutting property and to discourage through traffic, generally bearing a volume
of traffic no greater than 800 ADT (average daily traffic).
         (g)   STREET, MAJOR COLLECTOR. A street which carries traffic from the
minor collector system to the arterial. Traffic usually has origin and
destination within the community and does not exceed 10,000 ADT (average daily
traffic).
         (h)   STREET, MINOR COLLECTOR. A street which carries internal traffic
within a given neighborhood, connecting local streets to the major collectors
or to the arterial system and generally bearing a volume of traffic no greater
than 4,000 ADT (average daily traffic).
      STRUCTURE. A combination of materials to form a construction for use,
occupancy, or ornamentation whether installed on, above, or below the surface
of land or water.
      TRAILER. A structure standing on wheels, towed or hauled by another
vehicle and used for short-term human occupancy, carrying materials, goods, or
objects, or as a temporary office.
      TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any of
the following:
         (a)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
         (b)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling
interest in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
         (c)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal
device which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for
transfer by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person
possessing the ownership or control.
      TRAVEL TRAILER. A licensed recreation motor vehicle, or a licensed
recreation vehicle that is towed by a car or truck.
      TREE. Any tree, shrub, or other woody plant.
      TREE BOARD. The Tree Board of the village.
      TREE, LARGE. Any tree species which normally attains a full grown height
equal to or greater than 45 feet.
      TREE LAWN. The strip of land between the back of curb and sidewalks.
      TREE, MEDIUM. Any tree species which normally attains a full grown height
of between 25 and 45 feet.
      TREE, SMALL. Any tree species which normally attains a full grown height
of under 25 feet.
      TWO-STORY. A residential dwelling having a ground floor and a second
floor having a finished square footage equal to or exceeding 100% of the
required minimum ground floor finished square footage.
      USE. The purpose or activity for which land or buildings are designed,
arranged, or intended, or for which land or buildings are occupied or
maintained.
      VEHICULAR USE AREA. Any area used by vehicles.
      VIEWING ROOM. The room, booth, or area where a patron of a sexually
oriented business would ordinarily be positioned while watching a film, video
cassette, or other video reproduction.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Waynesville, Ohio.
      VILLAGE MANAGER. The Manager of the village or an authorized
representative.
      VILLAGE MAYOR. The Mayor of the village.
      WCRPC. The Warren County Regional Planning Commission.
      YARD. A required open space that lies between the principal or accessory
building or buildings and the nearest lot line. Such YARD is unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward except as may be specifically provided in
this Zoning Code.
         (a)   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending between side lot lines across the
front of a lot and from the front lot line to the front of the principal
building.
         (b)   YARD, REAR. A yard extending between side lot lines across the
rear of a lot and from the rear lot line to the rear of the principal building.
For corner lots, the rear yard shall constitute that area of the lot that is
adjacent to the rear portion of the principal structure.
         (c)   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending from the principal building to the
side lot line on both sides of the principal building between the lines
establishing the front and rear yards.
      ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS. The Board of Zoning and Building Appeals of the
village.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 98-105, passed 2-2-1998; Ord. 2001-034,
passed 10-1-2001; Ord. 2002-022, passed 9-16-2002; Ord. 2013-031, passed 7-15-
2013)
§ 153.013 RELATIONSHIP TO PUBLIC WORKS AND BUILDINGS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the village from
constructing, repairing, or maintaining public works or public buildings in the
village.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.014 PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   The specifications, rules, and regulations governing the repair,
construction, or reconstruction of sidewalks, driveways, curbs, and gutters in
streets, alleys, and public ways of the village shall be found in §§
94.045 through
94.054 of these codified ordinances (Ord. 95-140).
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.015 DEMOLITION PERMITS.
   (A)   The issuance of a demolition permit by the Zoning Director shall be
required prior to the demolition of any structure or building in the village.
If such demolition is located within the jurisdiction of the Historic
Preservation Board, then the demolition permit shall be reviewed by the
Historic Preservation Board and will not be issued without the approval of the
Historic Preservation Board.
   (B)   In applying for a demolition permit, the applicant must deposit with
the village a policy or certificate of insurance evidencing that the applicant
or owner has in force not less than $300,000 liability insurance for the
protection of adjacent owners and other members of the public.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.016 CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Generally. Land used or occupied and buildings erected or structurally
altered shall be used or changed in use only after a certificate of occupancy
has been issued by the Director of Inspection and Engineering. Such certificate
shall state that the building and proposed use comply with the provisions of
this code.
   (B)   Application required. Application for an occupancy permit shall be
made to the Director on forms provided. Upon determination that all provisions
of this code and other such ordinances have been complied with, an occupancy
permit shall be issued. Where circumstances warrant, temporary occupancy may be
authorized by the Zoning Director for a specified period not to exceed six
months upon receipt of a bond equal to the cost of the remaining improvements
has been provided to the village, during which period any remaining work shall
be completed.
   (C)   Occupying without a permit. Any person, firm, or corporation who
occupies or permits to be occupied, or who sells, leases, or rents a house,
building, building unit, or structure for which an occupancy permit has not
been issued, or in the case of alterations, additions, or repairs, whoever
occupies or permits to be occupied or utilized or sells, leases, or rents that
portion of the house, building, building unit, or structure added, altered, or
repaired for which an occupancy permit has not been issued, shall be guilty of
violating this chapter and shall be subject to the penalties provided herein.
   (D)   Application after effective date. This section shall apply to all uses
established and/or structures erected or altered after the effective date of
this section.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996) Penalty, see §
153.999
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.030 ENFORCEMENT BY DIRECTOR OF INSPECTION AND ENGINEERING.
   (A)   There is hereby established the office of Director of Inspection and
Engineering, who shall be appointed by the Village Manager with advice and
consent of Village Council. It shall be the duty of the Director of Inspection
and Engineering to enforce this Zoning Code in accordance with the
administrative provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   All departments, officials, public employees, and representatives of
the village, vested with the duty or authority to issue permits or licenses,
shall conform to the provisions of this chapter and shall issue no permit or
license for any use, building, or purpose in conflict with the provisions of
this chapter.
   (C)   Any permit or license issued in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter shall be null and void.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.031 CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Use prohibited without certificate.
      (1)   No owner, lessee, or tenant shall use or permit the use of any
structure, building, or land, or part thereof, hereafter created, erected,
changed, converted, or enlarged, wholly or partly, until a certificate of
zoning compliance shows that such building or premises or a part thereof, and
the proposed use thereof, are in conformity with the provisions of this Zoning
Code.
      (2)   The Director of Inspection and Engineering shall issue a zoning
certificate provided that her or she is satisfied that the structure, building,
and/or premises, the proposed use thereof, and the proposed methods of water
supply and disposal of sanitary waste, conform with all requirements of this
chapter, subject to approval of the Planning Commission and/or Village Council
where the ordinance requires or deems appropriate.
      (3)   This section shall in no case be construed as requiring a
certificate in the event of a change in ownership or tenancy only, without a
change in use or intended use, provided that no alterations or additions are
proposed for such building.
   (B)   Building permit. No building permit for the extension, erection, or
alteration of any building shall be issued before an application has been made
and a certificate of zoning compliance issued, and no building shall be
occupied until such certificate is approved.
   (C)   Effect of approval. Zoning certificates issued on the basis of plans,
information, and application approved by the Director of Inspection and
Engineering and/or Planning Commission authorize only the use, arrangement, and
construction set forth in such approved plans, information, and application or
approved amendments thereto, and no other use, arrangement, or construction.
Use, arrangement, and construction at variance with that authorized shall be
deemed a violation of this chapter and punished as provided in this chapter.
   (D)   Approval of Health Officer. In every case where the lot is not
serviced with public water supply and/or the disposal of sanitary wastes by
means of public water and sewers, the application shall be accompanied by
written evidence of approval by the responsible Health Officer as to the
proposed method of water supply and/or treatment and disposal of sanitary
waste.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.032 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Application to be made. Written application for certificates of zoning
compliance shall be made by property owners or lessees to the Director of
Inspection and Engineering (see §
153.033(A)).
   (B)   Application fee. A fee as stipulated §
153.045 shall be paid by the applicant to cover the costs of review and
reporting of the application, payable to the General Fund.
   (C)   Contents of application. The application for a zoning certificate
shall contain as a minimum:
      (1)   Name, address, and phone number of the applicants and
representatives, if any, and the signature of the property owners;
      (2)   A current survey of the property prepared by a licensed surveyor;
      (3)   If any new development, construction, or change in use is proposed,
a plan drawn to scale showing:
         (a)   Actual dimensions of the lot including easements;
         (b)   Exact size and location of all buildings and structures on the
subject lot;
         (c)   Any proposed new construction and/or alterations;
         (d)   Existing and intended use of all parts of the land or buildings;
         (e)   Proposed provisions of water, sanitary sewer facilities, surface
drainage features, and underground storm drainage facilities; and
         (f)   As applicable, proposed landscaping and other site design
treatment shall be indicated where required under §§
153.275 through
153.281.
      (4)   Such other information to be determined by the Director of
Inspection and Engineering and/or Planning Commission as may be necessary to
determine and provide for the enforcement of this Zoning Code.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.033 REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Filing of application. Two copies of a completed application shall be
filed with the Director of Inspection and Engineering, one copy of which shall
be returned to the applicant upon approval.
   (B)   Action by Director of Inspection and Engineering. Within 30 days after
acceptance of an application for a zoning certificate, the Director of
Inspection and Engineering shall approve a certificate of zoning compliance
provided he or she is satisfied that the structure, building, and/or premises,
and the proposed methods of water supply, treatment and disposal of sanitary
waste, and storm drainage measures conform with all requirements of this
chapter, subject to approval of the Planning Commission where the ordinance
requires; in those cases the Planning Commission shall render a decision within
35 days of holding a public hearing. Denial of an application shall be conveyed
to the applicant in writing with a statement of the reasons for such denial.
   (C)   Appeals. A denial by the Director of Inspection and Engineering of an
application for a certificate of zoning compliance may be appealed to the
Zoning Board of Appeals. A written appeal shall be filed with the Director of
Inspection and Engineering within ten days of receipt of notification of
denial. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have a maximum of 60 days for public
hearing, consideration and a decision on the appeal. Denial of an application
by the Zoning Board of Appeals may be appealed to the Village Council.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.034 ISSUANCE AND EXPIRATION.
   (A)   An approved certificate of zoning compliance shall be issued within
ten days of approval. One copy of the plans submitted by the applicant shall be
returned. All zoning certificates shall be conditional upon the commencement of
work within one year of issuance.
   (B)   Written notice shall be provided to the property owners together with
notice that further work as described in the canceled certificate shall not
proceed unless a new certificate is issued or an extension granted.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.035 VIOLATIONS; REMEDIES.
   If any building is or is proposed to be located, erected, constructed,
reconstructed, enlarged, changed, demolished, maintained, or used, or any land
is or is proposed to be used in violation of this Zoning Code or any amendment
or supplement thereto, the Village Council, Law Director, or any adjacent or
neighboring property owner who would be specifically damaged by such violation
may, in addition to other remedies provided by law, institute appropriate
action or proceedings to prevent such unlawful location, erection,
construction, reconstruction, alteration, demolition, conversion, maintenance,
or use; to restrain, correct, or abate such violation; to prevent the occupancy
of such building, structure, or land; or to prevent any illegal act, conduct,
business, or use in or about such premises.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996) Penalty, see §
153.999
Statutory reference:
   Violation of zoning ordinance, see R.C. § 713.13
§ 153.036 COMPLAINTS.
   Whenever a violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to have occurred,
any person may file a written complaint with the Director of Inspection and
Engineering. Such complaint should state in full the causes and basis thereof.
The Director of Inspection and Engineering shall record the complaint,
immediately investigate the allegations, and take appropriate action as
provided by this chapter.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.037 FAILURE TO ACT.
   The failure of any board or commission, not including the Village Council,
to act on an application before such board or commission within the prescribed
time-frame, excluding the continuation of a public meeting or hearing, shall
constitute approval of such application. This shall not apply in cases where an
applicant has chosen to indefinitely table an application or has requested an
extension of such application.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.038 TECHNICAL REVIEW GROUP.
   The Technical Review Group is established as a technical review body for the
village and may consist of, but not be limited to, the Director of Inspection
and Engineering, Village Manager, Village Engineer, Village Service Director,
and Village Safety Director. The Technical Review Group will meet on an as-
needed basis to provide a forum at which proposed developments at any stage in
the regulatory process may be discussed. These meetings are intended to
minimize conflicts with various regulatory requirements and to provide
coordination of various requirements and procedures. The group provides the
Planning Commission technical expertise in evaluating development proposals.
The Director of Inspection and Engineering shall chair the Technical Review
Group and shall coordinate the review process. Prior to a public hearing, the
Director of Inspection and Engineering shall notify the applicant or the
applicant’s representative in writing of comments and recommendations made by
the Technical Review Group.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.039 DIRECTOR OF INSPECTION AND ENGINEERING.
   (A)   Generally. The Director of Inspection and Engineering of the village,
appointed by the Village Manager with the advice and consent of Village
Council, shall serve as the chief administrative officer for the Zoning Code
and is charged with enforcement of the related requirements and standards, as
per this chapter.
   (B)   Certificate of zoning compliance. The Director of Inspection and
Engineering shall issue the certificate of zoning compliance when the standards
and requirements under §§
153.031 through
153.045 have been fully met or as directed by the Planning Commission or Board
of Zoning and Building Appeals and shall deny issuing zoning certificates in
the event of noncompliance. The Director of Inspection and Engineering shall
maintain a record of all applications and actions.
   (C)   Record keeping. The Director of Inspection and Engineering shall make
and keep all records necessary and appropriate to the office, including record
of the issuance and denial of all zoning certificates, zoning map amendments,
variances, conditional use permits, certificates of appropriateness,
certificates of design appropriateness, receipt, investigation, and enforcement
of complaints of violations, and any other permit or certificate required
herein. The Director of Inspection and Engineering shall prepare an annual
summary of all records.
   (D)   Historic Preservation Board. The Director of Inspection and
Engineering shall notify by certified mail respective property owners and those
violating this Zoning Code of violations of the Historic Preservation Board
provisions (see §§
153.080 through
153.094) and all other pertinent regulations; shall issue stop work orders for
the discontinuance of illegal work; and shall order in writing actions to
correct the violations under the direction of the Historic Preservation Board.
The Director of Inspection and Engineering shall take any other action
authorized by the Historic Preservation Board in concurrence with the Law
Director to ensure compliance, prevent violations, and to order remedial
actions, including the issuance of certificates of appropriateness. Appeals of
the Director of Inspection and Engineering’s orders directly related to the
Historic Preservation Board’s jurisdiction and area of authority may be filed
within ten days of receipt of the order with the Historic Preservation Board.
   (E)   Inspection and complaints.
      (1)   The Director of Inspection and Engineering shall inspect any
building or land to determine whether any violations of this Zoning Code and
other related ordinances have been committed or exist, and to receive and
investigate complaints and notices of alleged violations. Written complaints of
alleged violations shall be filed with the Director of Inspection and
Engineering who shall investigate the complaints and prepare a report to be
submitted to the Planning Commission and Law Director. The complaints shall be
recorded.
      (2)   Regular inspections of the village shall be conducted by the
Director of Inspection and Engineering to identify potential violations,
situations of noncompliance, and any potentially illegal situations relative to
this chapter. Necessary action shall be taken by the Director of Inspection and
Engineering to ensure compliance with and enforce the Zoning Code and other
related ordinances.
   (F)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The Director of Inspection and Engineering shall enforce this
chapter and any related ordinances and take all necessary steps to remedy any
condition found in violation by ordering by certified mail the discontinuance
of the illegal uses or illegal work, and recommend to the Law Director
appropriate action.
      (2)   The Director of Inspection and Engineering shall notify by
certified mail the property owners and those violating this Zoning Code and any
related ordinances of any noncompliance situations and shall order actions to
correct or remedy the violations; shall order by certified mail the
discontinuance of illegal uses of land, buildings, or structures in violation
therein; shall order by certified mail in accordance with legal procedures the
removal of illegal buildings and structures or illegal additions or structural
alterations; shall order discontinuance by certified mail of any illegal work
under way; and shall take any other action authorized by the Zoning Code, any
related ordinance, and/or Law Director to ensure compliance and prevent
violations, including issuance of and actions on any zoning permits or
certificates and other similar duties. The Director of Inspection and
Engineering shall notify in writing the Planning Commission and Law Director of
all violations of this Zoning Code and any related ordinance.
      (3)   Appeals of the Director of Inspection and Engineering’s orders may
be filed with the Board of Zoning and Building Appeals, Board of Housing
Appeals, or Historic Preservation Board, as appropriate. A written appeal shall
be filed with the Clerk of Council within ten days of receipt of order.
   (G)   Advisor to Planning Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (1)   The Director of Inspection and Engineering shall advise the
Planning Commission and Board of Zoning and Building Appeals of all matters
other than routine duties pertaining to enforcement of this Zoning Code and any
related ordinance, and shall transmit all applications and records pertaining
to supplements and amendments therein.
      (2)   All questions relative to interpretation and enforcement of this
Zoning Code shall first be presented to the Director of Inspection and
Engineering for a decision. The Board of Zoning and Building Appeals may be
appealed to for a determination relative to the Director of Inspection and
Engineering’s decision.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Violation of zoning ordinances, see R.C. § 713.13
§ 153.040 PLANNING COMMISSION; BOARD OF ZONING AND BUILDING APPEALS; VILLAGE
COUNCIL.
   (A)   Generally. In accordance with Article VII the Village Charter, a
Planning Commission and a Board of Zoning and Building Appeals are hereby
created.
      (1)   Membership.
         (a)   The Planning Commission shall consist of seven members appointed
by Council: two of whom shall be members of Council appointed for a term of one
year, and five citizen members who shall serve four year overlapping terms of
office. Members of the Planning Commission shall hold no other municipal office
or board membership.
         (b)   The Board of Zoning and Building Appeals shall consist of seven
citizen members appointed by Council to serve four year overlapping terms of
office. Members of the Board of Zoning and Building Appeals may not hold any
other municipal office.
      (2)   Vacancy. The position on a board or commission shall become vacant
upon the member’s death, resignation, removal from office in any manner
authorized by the Charter, or forfeiture of office. A vacancy during the term
of any member of a board or commission created by the Charter or by ordinance
of the Council shall be filled by:
         (a)   Advertising the opening for two weeks requesting anyone
interested in serving on that board or commission to make application to the
Council;
         (b)   Applications shall be in writing by anyone interested;
         (c)   The Manager and the Mayor plus two members of Council shall
interview all applicants; and
         (d)   Appointment shall be made seven days after the last
advertisement or within 45 days of the vacancy.
      (3)   Forfeiture of office. If it is so determined by an affirmative vote
of at least four members of the board or commission, a member shall forfeit
that position if the board or commission member:
         (a)   Lacks at any time during his or her term of office, any
qualification for the office prescribed by the Charter;
         (b)   Intentionally violates any express prohibition of the Charter;
         (c)   Is convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude or malfeasance
or a felony; or
         (d)   Fails to attend regular meetings as established by the board or
commission’s attendance policy. Each board or commission shall establish and
have approved by the Manager its own attendance policy. This policy will be
reviewed by each board or commission at the first meeting held each year.
      (4)   Disability. On questions of disability involving the members of the
boards or commission, the decision as to actuality of the time of, and duration
of the disability, for purpose of declaring a vacancy, shall be determined by
an affirmative vote of at least four members of the board or commission.
   (B)   Meetings.
      (1)   The Planning Commission or the Board of Zoning and Building Appeals
may meet at the request of the Mayor or Commission Chairperson or Board
Chairperson upon written notice by two or more of its members; in all cases
such request or notice shall be given at least 24 hours prior to the meeting
time. All meetings shall be public and public records shall be kept of all
proceedings indicating the vote of each member on each issue, the members
present and absent, and the facts of each case and other minutes of the
meeting, a copy of which shall be sent to the Village Council. Nothing in this
code shall prevent the Commission or Board from granting a continuance of a
public hearing.
      (2)   An organizational meeting shall be held each January at which a
Chairperson for each Commission or Board shall be nominated. A Vice Chairperson
and a secretary shall be designated by the Chairperson. All officers shall
serve for a one-year term and shall serve without compensation.
   (C)   Procedure. Four members constitute a quorum. The Board or Commission
shall act by resolution passed by the vote of a majority of the members of the
Board or Commission. The Chairperson, or in his or her absence the Vice
Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. The
secretary shall keep minutes of the proceedings, indicating the vote of each
member on each question, or if absent or failing to vote, so note. The
secretary may or may not be a member of the Board or Commission, and if not a
member may hold another office or employment with the municipality. The
secretary shall keep records of the Board’s or Commission’s examinations and
other official actions, all of which are to be filed with the Clerk of Council
within ten days after the meeting and are public record. All meetings shall be
open to the public.
   (D)   Duties.
      (1)   The duties of the Planning Commission are as follows:
         (a)   To review all proposed amendments to and rezonings of this
chapter and map, as in §
153.041, and to forward recommendations to Village Council;
         (b)   To initiate amendments to the provisions of this chapter and
official zoning map by resolution and make recommendation to Village Council;
         (c)   To review and act upon applications for conditional use permits,
as in §
153.042, and all other pertinent sections of this chapter;
         (d)   To act on all proposed planned developments, as in §
153.174, and to forward recommendations to Council for final action relative to
development plans and amendments;
         (e)   To conduct studies and surveys and prepare plans, reports, and
maps relative to the overall planning of the growth, development,
redevelopment, rehabilitation, and renewal of the municipality, and make such
recommendations relative thereto to the Council as it feels are in the best
interests of the municipality;
         (f)   To administer the subdivision regulations of the village;
         (g)   To make plans which show the Commission’s recommendations for
the character of both public and private streets, bridges, parks, open spaces,
waterways, and utilities;
         (h)   To make plans which show the Commissions’s recommendations on
the location and extension of streets, bridges, parks, open spaces, waterways,
and utilities;
         (i)   To work with the Historic Preservation Board of the village and
to make plans and recommendations for the control and care of historic
structures and grounds not located in areas subject to the Historic
Preservation Board;
         (j)   To assist in the design of public works such as bridges, street
fixtures, public art, and visible utilities; and
         (k)   To administer and make recommendations for the application of
the Comprehensive Community Plan for the village.
      (2)   The duties of the Board of Zoning and Building Appeals are as
follows:
         (a)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is in error
any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the Director of
Inspection and Engineering;
         (b)   To review and act upon applications for variances from the terms
of this chapter, as per §
153.043; and
         (c)   To review and act upon appeals with regard to reconstruction and
substitution of nonconforming uses, as per §
153.044.
   (E)   Matters of interpretation. It is the intent of this chapter that all
questions of interpretation and enforcement shall be first presented to the
Director of Inspection and Engineering, and that such questions shall be
presented to the Board of Zoning and Building Appeals on appeal from the
decision of the Director of Inspection and Engineering, and that recourse from
the decisions of the Board of Zoning and Building Appeals shall be to the
Village Council. Recourse from the Village Council shall be the County Court of
Common Pleas as provided under the Ohio Revised Code.
   (F)   Village Council powers and duties. The Village Council shall have the
following powers and duties with respect to the administration and enforcement
of this Zoning Code:
      (1)   To review, render decision, and enact amendments to the provisions
of this chapter and official zoning map;
      (2)   To initiate amendments to the provisions of this chapter and
official zoning map through ordinance or resolution and forwarding the action
to Planning Commission for review and recommendation;
      (3)   To hear and decide appeals from Planning Commission or Board of
Zoning and Building Appeals determinations relative to conditional use and
variance requests;
      (4)   Request by resolution or require by ordinance duties of the
Planning Commission and/or the Board of Zoning and Building Appeals; and
      (5)   To hear and decide appeals from the Historic Preservation Board
relative to certificate of appropriateness requests.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
Charter reference:
   Council may amend districting or zoning, see Charter §
3.09
   Duties and powers of Board of Zoning and Building Appeals, see Charter §
7.06
   Duties and powers of Planning Commission, see Charter §
7.04
Statutory reference:
   Council may amend districting or zoning, see R.C. § 713.10
   Duties and powers of Board of Zoning and Building Appeals, see R.C. § 713.11
   Duties and powers of Planning Commission, see R.C. §§ 713.02 et seq.
§ 153.041 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Initiation. The provisions of this Zoning Code may be amended,
supplemented, changed, or repealed to meet changing conditions or to better
meet good zoning practices. Amendments may be initiated in one of three ways:
      (1)   By adoption of a motion by Planning Commission;
      (2)   By adoption of a resolution by Village Council; or
      (3)   By filing of an application by one or more property owners,
lessees, persons with an interest in the property, or any duly authorized agent
of such owners, lessees, or persons, of property within the area proposed to be
changed or affected by amendments of provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Application procedure.
      (1)   Application to be made. Written application for amendment of this
chapter, including all supporting materials, initiated by property owners or
lessees or persons with an interest in the property or duly authorized agents
of such owners or lessees or persons shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission. (See division (D)(1) of this section.) This process is separate
from the requirements of Planned Districts, §
153.174.
      (2)   Application fee. A fee as stipulated in §
153.045 shall be paid by the applicant to cover the costs of advertising,
review, publishing, and reporting of the application, payable to the General
Fund.
      (3)   Application contents. The application for amendment shall contain
as a minimum:
         (a)   Name, address, and phone number of the applicants and
representatives, if any, and the signature of the property owners;
         (b)   A current and accurate legal description of the properties in
question and a current survey prepared by a licensed surveyor;
         (c)   The proposed amendment to the Zoning Code, the proposed use and
the proposed zoning district of the properties;
         (d)   The present use and present zoning district of the properties;
         (e)   A list of all property owners within, contiguous to, and
directly across the street from the properties in question. The list of
addresses may correspond to the County Auditor’s current tax list;
         (f)   A statement of the relationship of proposed change or amendment
to the general welfare of the community, to appropriate plans for the area, and
to the changed or changing conditions behind the request to re-zone;
         (g)   A plot plan to show:
            1.   Boundaries and dimensions of the lot and the size and location
of all proposed and existing structures;
            2.   The proposed use of all parts of the lot and structures;
            3.   Traffic access, traffic circulation, existing and proposed
utilities, parking, lighting and illumination, landscaping, signs, and other
such information relevant to the proposed use; and
            4.   Such additional information as may be required by this Zoning
Code and/or requested by the Board and/or Director of Inspection and
Engineering to review the application.
         (h)   Any deed restrictions, easements, covenants, and encumbrances to
be used to control the use, development, and maintenance of land, and proposed
uses, shall be fully denoted by text and map; and
         (i)   At the discretion of the Planning Commission, and an engineer’s
estimate of utility needs of the proposed use of the area being considered for
rezoning, to include sewer, water, and refuse demand may be required. In
addition, an engineer’s estimate of potential traffic generation for the
proposed uses and measures proposed by the applicant to mitigate the impacts
resulting from the generation may be required by the Board.
   (C)   Criteria for review. The Planning Commission shall, at the minimum,
consider the following factors in the review of the application:
      (1)   Compatibility of the proposed amendment to adjacent land use,
adjacent zoning, and to appropriate plans for the area;
      (2)   Relationship of the proposed amendment to access and traffic flow
and utility services including sanitary sewer, water, and storm drainage;
      (3)   Relationship of the proposed amendment to the public health,
safety, convenience, comfort, prosperity, and general welfare; and
      (4)   Relationship of the proposed use to the adequacy of available
services and to general expansion plans and planned capital improvements.
   (D)   Review procedure.
      (1)   Filing and acceptance of application. Fifteen copies of a completed
application shall be filed with the Director of Inspection and Engineering at
least 45 days prior to a regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning
Commission. Prior to accepting such application, the Director of Inspection and
Engineering shall review the submittal and determine whether such application
is complete and meets all submittal requirements. Failure to submit a complete
application, as determined by the Director of Inspection and Engineering, shall
result in a refusal of acceptance.
      (2)   Public hearing. 
         (a)   A public hearing of the Planning Commission shall be set to be
held within 60 days from the date of the acceptance of a complete application
to amend this chapter and/or official zoning map. Nothing in this section shall
prevent the Board from granting a continuance of the public hearing.
         (b)   In the case of a zoning ordinance or resolution referred to the
Planning Commission by the Village Council in accordance with Charter §
4.12, a public hearing shall not be required. However, the Commission may hold
a public hearing provided that Village Council has extended the time for
receipt of written recommendations from the Planning Commission sufficient to
advertise and conduct public hearings in accordance with the time frames as set
forth in this chapter.
      (3)   Public notice for hearing. At least one notice shall be published
at least two weeks prior to a scheduled public hearing in one or more
newspapers of general circulation in the village. Such notice shall include the
date, time, and place of the public hearing, nature of the proposed amendment,
and a statement that after the conclusion of such public hearing the matter
will be referred to the Village Council for further determination. In addition,
a sign will be posted on the applicant’s property indicating that the property
is the subject of an application for zoning amendment, and shall include the
telephone number of the village to contact for further information. The sign
shall be posted by the Director of Inspection and Engineering in a location,
size, and manner as directed by the Director of Inspection and Engineering. The
sign shall be posted within two weeks of the acceptance of the application by
the Director of Inspection and Engineering and shall remain in place until
action has been taken on the application by the Village Council.
      (4)   Notice to property owners. If the proposed amendment intends to
rezone or redistrict ten or less parcels of land, as listed on the tax
duplicate, written notice of the hearing shall be mailed by the village,
certified mail, at least 30 days prior to the date of a scheduled public
hearing to all property owners within, contiguous to, or directly across the
street from such area proposed to be rezoned or redistricted as listed under
division (B)(3)(e) of this section. The notice shall correspond to division (D)
(3) of this section in content.
      (5)   Action by Planning Commission. Within 31 days of the public
hearing, or within 31 days of the date of referral of each ordinance or
resolution referred to the Planning Commission by the Village Council in
accordance with Charter §
4.12  unless a time extension is granted by Council, the Planning Commission
shall review the application and forward one of the following recommendations
of the majority of members of the Commission to Village Council:
         (a)   Recommend amendment be granted as requested;
         (b)   Recommend a modification of amendment; or
         (c)   Recommend amendment not be granted.
      (6)   Public hearing of the Council. 
         (a)   Upon receipt of such recommendation, the Village Council shall
schedule a public hearing within 45 days of the receipt. Nothing in this
section shall prevent the Council from continuing a public hearing.
         (b)   Council shall hold a public hearing whenever an ordinance or
resolution establishes, amends, revises, changes, or repeals a zoning
classification or zoning district or zoning regulation as per Charter §
4.13.
      (7)   Public notice for hearing. At least one notice shall be published
at least two weeks prior to a scheduled public hearing in one or more
newspapers of general circulation in the village. Such notice shall include the
date, time, and place of the public hearing, nature of the proposed amendment,
and a summary of any Planning Commission recommendation.
      (8)   Action by Village Council.
         (a)   Within 35 days after the public hearing, Council shall adopt or
deny the recommendation of the Planning Commission or adopt a modification
thereof. To adopt the Commission’s recommendation, a majority vote of the
membership of Council is required. To reverse or modify the Commission’s
recommendation, the affirmative vote of five members of the Village Council is
required.
         (b)   An application for amending this chapter that has been
disapproved by the Village Council may be resubmitted to the village no sooner
than one year of the date of such disapproval by Council.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 99-150, passed - -1999)
Charter reference:
   Council may amend districting or zoning, see Charter §
3.09
   Initiation and review by Planning Commission, see §
153.040, Charter §
7.04
Cross-reference:
   Planned districts, amendments to, see §
153.174
Statutory reference:
   Council may amend districting or zoning, see R.C. § 713.10
§ 153.042 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Purpose. Certain uses more intensely affect the surrounding area in
which they are located than permitted uses in the same zoning district and, if
properly controlled and regulated, these uses can be compatible within the
zoning district. To provide this necessary control, such uses shall be
designated as conditional uses and allowable only upon review and approval by
the Planning Commission. Because of the uniqueness or special nature of a
conditional use with respect to location, design, size, and method of
operation, each such use that comes before the review of the Board shall be
considered individually.
   (B)   Application procedure.
      (1)   Application to be made. Written application for a conditional use
shall be made by property owners, lessees, persons with interest in the
property, or duly authorized agents of owners, lessees, or persons having
interest in the property to the Planning Commission. (See division (D)(1) of
this section.)
      (2)   Application fee. A fee as stipulated in §
153.045 shall be paid by the application to cover the costs of advertising,
review, publishing, and reporting of the application, payable to the General
Fund.
      (3)   Application contents. The application for a conditional use shall
contain as a minimum:
         (a)   Name, address, and phone number of the applicants and
representatives, if any, and the signature of the property owners;
         (b)   A current and accurate legal description of the properties in
question and a current survey prepared by a licensed surveyor;
         (c)   A description of existing use, current zoning district, and
proposed conditional use;
         (d)   A list of all property owners within, contiguous to, and
directly across the street from the properties in question. The list of
addresses may correspond to the County Auditor’s current tax list;
         (e)   A statement of the relationship of the proposed use to the
general welfare of the community, to appropriate plans for the area, and to the
changed or changing conditions behind the request;
         (f)   A statement of the relationship of the proposed use to adjacent
land use in terms of traffic, parking, noise, and other potential nuisances and
general compatibility; and
         (g)   A plot plan to show:
            1.   Boundaries and dimensions of the lot and the size and location
of all proposed and existing structures;
            2.   Traffic access, traffic circulation, existing and proposed
utilities, parking, lighting and illumination, landscaping, signs, and other
such information relevant to the proposed use; and
            3.   Such additional information as may be required by this Zoning
Code and/or requested by the Board and/or Director of Inspection and
Engineering to review the application.
   (C)   Criteria for approval. The following considerations shall be examined
in review of an application for a conditional use:
      (1)   The proposed use is a conditional use of the zoning district and
the applicable development standards of this Zoning Code are met;
      (2)   The proposed use is compatible with adjacent land use, adjacent
zoning, and to appropriate plans for the area;
      (3)   The proposed use will not adversely impact access, traffic flow,
and other public facilities and services;
      (4)   The proposed use will not result in the destruction, loss, or
damage of a natural, scenic, or historic feature; and
      (5)   The proposed use will not adversely affect the public health,
safety, convenience, comfort, prosperity, and general welfare.
   (D)   Review procedure.
      (1)   Filing of application. Fifteen copies of a completed application
shall be filed with the Director of Inspection and Engineering at least 45 days
prior to a regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning Commission. Prior to
accepting such application, the Director of Inspection and Engineering shall
review the submittal and determine whether such application is complete and
meets all submittal requirements. Failure to submit a complete application, as
determined by the Director of Inspection and Engineering, shall result in a
refusal of acceptance.
      (2)   Public hearing. A public hearing of the Planning Commission shall
be held within 60 days from the date of the acceptance of a resolution, motion,
or complete application to amend this chapter and/or official zoning map.
Nothing in this section shall prevent the Board from granting a continuance of
the public hearing.
      (3)   Public notice for hearing. At least one notice shall be given at
least ten days prior to a scheduled public hearing in one or more newspapers of
general circulation in the village. Such notice shall include time and place of
the public hearing and nature of the proposed conditional use.
      (4)   Notice to property owners. Written notice of the hearing shall be
mailed by the village, certified mail, at least ten days prior to the date of a
scheduled public hearing to all property owners as listed under division (B)(3)
(d) of this section. The notice shall correspond to division (D)(3) of this
section in content.
      (5)   Procedure at hearing.
         (a)   Within 35 days of the public hearing, the Planning Commission
shall review the application and render one of the following decisions:
            1.   Approval of conditional use as requested;
            2.   Approval of conditional use with modifications; or
            3.   Disapproval of conditional use.
         (b)   The Commission shall apply criteria in division (C) of this
section in reaching its determination. In approving a conditional use, the
Commission may prescribe additional conditions and safeguards in conformity
with this chapter. Violations of such conditions and safeguards, when made a
part of the terms under which the conditional use is approved, shall be deemed
a violation of this chapter and punishable as prescribed in §
153.999 and other provisions of this code and shall result in revocation of the
conditional use approval and respective certificate of zoning compliance.
         (c)   The Commission’s determination in taking action on a requested
conditional use shall be accompanied by findings of fact and a statement of the
reasons for the decision reached.
   (E)   Issuance of permit; expiration. Upon approval of Planning Commission
or upon appeal and approval by Council, and with such conditions attached by
either body as may be necessary to secure the objectives of this Zoning Code,
the Director of Inspection and Engineering shall issue a conditional use permit
to the applicant within ten days. Such permit shall authorize one particular
conditional use and such permit shall automatically expire if, for any reason,
the conditional use shall not be commenced within two years, including any
construction or renovation. Such permit shall expire if a conditional use is
discontinued for more than six months.
   (F)   Appeals. Whoever is aggrieved or affected by the decision of Board
involving an application for conditional use shall have the right to file an
appeal with Village Council. The appeal shall be filed in writing with the
Clerk of Council no later than ten days after the decision of the Commission.
Council shall have a maximum of 60 days from receipt of an appeal for public
hearing, consideration, and a decision on the appeal. In reaching a
determination on a requested conditional use on appeal by Council, the
applicable portions of division (D)(5) of this section shall apply.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.043 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Purpose. The issuance of a variance to permit exceptions to, and
variance deviation from, the strict interpretation of the applicable
regulations contained in this Zoning Code shall be under the authority of the
Board of Zoning and Building Appeals. In no case shall the granting of a
variance allow a use not permitted under the subject district regulations.
   (B)   Application procedure.
      (1)   Application to be made. Written application for a variance shall be
made by the property owners or lessees to the Board of Zoning and Building
Appeals. (See division (D)(1) of this section.)
      (2)   Application fee. A fee as stipulated in §
153.045 shall be paid by the applicant to cover the costs of advertising,
review, publishing, and reporting of the application, payable to the General
Fund.
      (3)   Application contents. The application for a variance shall contain
as a minimum:
         (a)   Name, address, and phone number of the applicants and
representatives, if any, and the signature of the property owners;
         (b)   A current and accurate legal description of the properties in
question and a current survey prepared by a licensed surveyor;
         (c)   The nature of the variance required to include what provisions
of this Zoning Code are affected;
         (d)   A statement pertaining to and explaining the relation of the
variances requested to the criteria for approval as listed under division (C)
of this section;
         (e)   A list of all property owners within, contiguous to, and
directly across the street from the properties in question. The list of
addresses may correspond to the County Auditor’s current tax list; and
         (f)   A plot plan to show:
            1.   Boundaries and dimensions of the property and the size and
location of all proposed and existing structures;
            2.   The nature of the special conditions or circumstances;
            3.   The proposed use of all parts of the lot and structures;
            4.   The use of land and location of structures on adjacent
properties; and
            5.   Such additional information as may be required by this Zoning
Code and/or requested by the Board and/or Director of Inspection and
Engineering to review the application.
   (C)   Criteria for approval. All relevant factors, including, but not
limited to, the following considerations shall be examined in the review,
public hearing, and approval of an application for a variance:
      (1)   Special circumstances or conditions exist which are not applicable
to other lands or structures in the same zoning district;
      (2)   A literal interpretation of the provisions of this Zoning Code
would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in
the same zoning district under the provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   Special conditions and circumstances do not result from the actions
of the applicant;
      (4)   The granting of the variance will not confer on the applicant any
undue privilege that is denied by this chapter to other lands or structures in
the same zoning district;
      (5)   The granting of the variance will in no other manner adversely
affect the public health, safety, convenience, comfort, prosperity, and general
welfare;
      (6)   The granting of the variance is not solely based upon the showing
that the property could be put to better economic use than presently permitted
by zoning regulations (See Garber v. Joseph Skilken & Co., 293 N.E.2d 333 (Ohio
Com. Pl. 1972)); and
      (7)   The granting of the variance will not permit a use that is
otherwise not permitted within the respective zoning district.
   (D)   Review procedure.
      (1)   Filing of application. Fifteen copies of a completed application
shall be filed with the Director of Inspection and Engineering at least 45 days
prior to a regularly scheduled meeting of the Board of Zoning and Building
Appeals. Prior to accepting such application, the Director of Inspection and
Engineering shall review the submittal and determine whether such application
is complete and meets all submittal requirements. Failure to submit a complete
application, as determined by the Director of Inspection and Engineering, shall
result in a refusal of acceptance.
      (2)   Public hearing. A public hearing of the Board of Zoning and
Building Appeals shall be held within 60 days from the date of the acceptance
of a resolution, motion, or complete application to amend this chapter and/or
official zoning map. Nothing in this section shall prevent the Board from
granting a continuance of the public hearing.
      (3)   Public notice for hearing. At least one notice shall be given at
least ten days prior to a scheduled public hearing in one or more newspapers of
general circulation in the village. Such notice shall include the time and
place of the public hearing and the nature of the proposed variances.
      (4)   Notice to property owners. Written notice of the hearing shall be
mailed by the village, by certified mail, at least ten days prior to the date
of a scheduled public hearing to all property owners as listed under division
(B)(3)(e) of this section. The notice shall correspond to division (D)(3) of
this section in content.
      (5)   Procedure at hearing.
         (a)   Within 35 days of the public hearing, the Board of Appeals shall
review the application and render one of the following decisions:
            1.   Approval of variance as requested;
            2.   Approval of variance with modifications; or
            3.   Disapproval of variance.
         (b)   The Board of Appeals shall apply criteria in division (C) of
this section in reaching its determination. In approving a variance, the Board
of Appeals may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity
with this chapter. Violations of such conditions and safeguards, when made a
part of the terms under which the variance is approved, shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter and punishable as prescribed herein.
         (c)   The Board of Appeals determination in taking action on a
requested variance shall be accompanied by findings of fact and a statement of
the reasons for the decision reached.
   (E)   Appeals relative to signage and off-street parking. An appeal may be
filed with the Board of Appeals for relief from the strict enforcement of
Zoning Code requirements relative to nonconforming signs and nonconforming
surface treatment of off-street parking areas, provided the applicant shows:
      (1)   The unlawful nonconforming situation has existed a minimum of five
years prior to the effective date of this chapter;
      (2)   Special circumstances or conditions exist which are peculiar to the
structures involved and which prevent the applicant from meeting the
requirements of this Zoning Code;
      (3)   Special circumstances or conditions do not result from the actions
of the applicant; and
      (4)   The granting of an appeal will in no other manner adversely affect
the public health, safety, convenience, comfort, prosperity, and general
welfare.
   (F)   Issuance of certificate of zoning compliance. Upon approval of the
Board of Appeals or upon appeal and approval by Council, and with such
conditions attached by either body as may be necessary to secure the objectives
of this Zoning Code, the Director of Inspection and Engineering shall issue a
certificate of zoning compliance for all approved variances to the applicant
within ten days of approval. The requirements relative to expiration in §
153.034 shall apply.
   (G)   Appeals. Whoever is aggrieved or affected by the decision of the Board
of Zoning and Building Appeals involving an application for a variance shall
have the right to file an appeal with the Village Council. The appeal shall be
filed with the Clerk of Council no later than ten days after the decision of
the Board of Appeals. Council shall have a maximum of 60 days for
consideration, public hearing, and a decision on the appeal. In reaching a
determination on a requested variance appeal by Council, the applicable
portions of division (D)(5) of this section shall apply.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.044 NONCONFORMING LOTS, USES, AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Generally. The lawful use of any dwelling, building, or structure and
of any land or premises, as existing and lawful at the time of enacting this
Zoning Code or amendment hereto, may be continued, although such use does not
conform with the provisions of this chapter or amendment hereto, as provided in
this chapter. It is the intent of this chapter to permit these nonconforming
situations to continue until such time that they are removed, but not to
encourage their continued use or expansion except as provided for herein. (See
R.C. § 713.15.)
   (B)   Nonconforming lots.
      (1)   The construction of a conforming structure and/or the conduct of a
permitted use shall be allowed on any lot of record which has an area and/or
lot width less than that required for such structure or permitted use in the
zoning district in which the lot is located. Variance of any development
standard other than minimum lot area and/or minimum lot width shall be obtained
only through action of the Planning Commission in accordance with §
153.043.
      (2)   Such nonconforming lots must be in separate ownership and not of
continuous frontage with other land in the same ownership on the effective date
of this chapter. Otherwise, development shall be permitted only in accordance
with development standards of the zoning district in which such ownership is
located.
   (C)   Nonconforming structures and developments. Structures and/or accessory
development, which by reason of size, type, location on the lot, or otherwise
in conflict with regulations of the zoning district in which they are located,
may be altered, reconstructed, or extended on appeal to the Zoning Board of
Appeals, provided the applicant shows that:
      (1)   The nonconforming structure and development was lawful at the time
of enactment of this Zoning Code;
      (2)   Such tax parcel has been under the same ownership for not less than
two years;
      (3)   Such alteration, reconstruction, or extension is necessary and
incidental to such existing lawful nonconforming use as demonstrated by the
applicant;
      (4)   Such extension shall not increase the total floor area by more than
50%; and
      (5)   No extension shall be requested within two years of the last
previous extension as approved by the Planning Commission.
   (D)   Nonconforming uses. The lawful nonconforming use of a lot and/or
structure may be continued, expanded, substituted, changed, or re-established
subject to the following.
      (1)   Continuation. The lawful use of any dwelling, building, or
structure, and of any land or premises, as existing and lawful at the time of
enactment of this Zoning Code, as amended, may be continued, although such use
does not conform with the provisions of this chapter, as amended, but if any
such nonconforming use is voluntarily discontinued for a period of six months,
any future use of such land shall be in conformity with this chapter. (See R.C.
§ 713.15.)
      (2)   Expansion. A lawful nonconforming use may be expanded within an
existing structure manifestly arranged or developed for such use on appeal to
the Planning Commission, provided the applicant shows that:
         (a)   The nonconforming use was lawful at the time of enactment of
this Zoning Code;
         (b)   Such tax parcel has been under the same ownership for not less
than two years;
         (c)   Such expansion is necessary and incidental to such existing
lawful nonconforming use as demonstrated by the applicant; and
         (d)   No expansion shall be requested within two years of the last
previous expansion as approved by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   Substitution. On approval of an appeal to the Planning Commission,
the substitution of a lawful nonconforming use existing at the time of
enactment of this Zoning Code by another lawful nonconforming use may be
permitted if no structural alterations, except those required by law or
resolution are made, provided that any use so substituted shall be of the same
or a more restricted classification, subject to approval of an appeal to the
Planning Commission, provided the applicant shows that:
         (a)   The nonconforming use was lawful at the time of enactment of
this Zoning Code;
         (b)   Such tax parcel has been under the same ownership for not less
than two years;
         (c)   Such substitution is compatible with adjacent land use, adjacent
zoning, and to appropriate plans for the area; and
         (d)   No substitution shall be requested within two years of the last
previous expansion as approved by the Planning Commission.
      (4)   Re-establishment. A lawful nonconforming use of any structure
damaged by fire, explosion, flood, riot, or act of God may be continued and
used as before any such calamity, provided the building or structure has not
been destroyed to an extent of more than one-half of its fair value, and
provided such reconstruction is started within 12 months of such calamity and
is continued in a reasonable manner satisfactory to the Director until
completed.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 2002-023, passed 10-7-2002)
Cross-reference:
   Nonconforming lots, development standards, see §
153.143
   Nonconforming signs, see §
153.258
Statutory reference:
   Retroactive measures prohibited, see R.C. § 713.15
§ 153.045 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   All zoning and planning fees are as set forth in the village’s schedule of
fees, as adopted by reference in §
36.05.
SITE DEVELOPMENT PLANS
§ 153.060 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Site development plans are intended to ensure ample provisions for the
efficient use of land and to promote high standards in the layout, design,
landscaping, and construction of development. They are further intended to
supplement the provisions of the subdivision regulations and to further the
purposes and provisions of this code for developments other than subdivision
developments.
   (B)   The purposes of this subchapter are to state the specific additional
requirements applicable to the development of land in certain zoning districts,
and to prescribe the standards for the preparation and submission of site
development plan drawings and for the design and construction of required
improvements.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.061 SITE DEVELOPMENT PLANS REQUIRED.
   A site development plan is required and shall be submitted for the
following:
   (A)   Any use or development involving new construction, reconstruction, or
expansion of structures in all zoning districts except single-family detached
dwelling units or duplexes in residential districts;
   (B)   Any development in which automobile parking spaces are to be used by
more than one establishment;
   (C)   When a change is proposed in the exterior elements of a previously
approved site development plan;
   (D)   When an existing residential use is proposed for change to a
commercial, industrial, or multi- family residential use; and
   (E)   All public and/or semi-public buildings and institutions.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.062 PREPARATION.
   (A)   Site development plans shall be prepared by persons professionally
qualified (certified planner, architect, engineer) to do such work. Final site
plans shall be certified by an engineer duly registered by the state, and
include a boundary survey certified by a land surveyor duly registered by the
state.
   (B)   Every site plan shall show the name of the development, the name and
address of the owner and developer, north point, date, scale, and number of
sheets.
   (C)   Site development plans may be prepared on one or more sheets to show
clearly the information required by this section and to facilitate the review
and approval of the plan. If prepared on more than one sheet, match lines shall
clearly indicate where the several sheets join.
   (D)   Site development plans shall be prepared at a scale of one inch = 50
feet or larger (for example, one inch = 40 feet, and the like). No sheet shall
exceed 24 inches by 36 inches in size. Fifteen copies shall be submitted to the
Director of Inspection and Engineering for all developments.
   (E)   Profiles must be submitted on standard plan profile sheets. Special
studies as required may be submitted on standard cross section paper and shall
have a scale of one inch = 50 feet horizontally and one inch = five feet
vertically. No sheet size shall exceed 24 inches by 36 inches. Floodplain limit
studies required by this chapter shall be shown on all profile sheets with
reference to properties affected and centerline of stream.
   (F)   All horizontal distances shown on the site plan shall be in feet and
decimals of a foot to the closest one-tenth of a foot; and all bearings in
degrees to the nearest ten seconds.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.063 APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   All site plans must be approved by the Planning Commission except as
provided in division (F) of this section. Site plans shall be submitted to the
Director of Inspection and Engineering who shall review same for compliance
with this chapter. Submittal shall be 45 days prior to the meeting date at
which the plans will be reviewed by the Planning Commission accompanied by a
fee as set forth in §
153.045.
   (B)   Final site plans to be submitted to the Planning Commission shall be
based on a previously approved preliminary plan except where such requirement
is waived by the Planning Commission for good cause.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall act on site plans presented to it within
a reasonable time and the developer shall be advised as to the decision of the
Planning Commission by letter and/or legible markings and notes on the plan.
The decision shall be final. Final approval shall be shown by the signature of
the Director of Inspection and Engineering on the final plans.
   (D)   Prior to final approval of the site plan, the developer shall post any
required bonds and shall present any dedication or easement plats for approval
prior to recordation.
   (E)   Approval of a final site plan by the Planning Commission shall expire
12 months from the date of such approval unless building permits have been
obtained for construction in accordance therewith. A single extension, not to
exceed six months, may be given by the Planning Commission upon written request
by the applicant.
   (F)   Site plans for commercial developments of less than 10,000 square feet
of gross floor area and industrial developments of less than 32,000 square feet
of gross floor area may be approved by the Director of Inspection and
Engineering. Any person aggrieved by any decision of the administrative
official whose decisions required pursuant to this chapter may, within ten days
of the decision, appeal and have a determination made by the Board of Building
and Zoning Appeals.
   (G)   Approval of the site development plan by the Director of Inspection
and Engineering after bonding approval by the Engineer constitutes
authorization to proceed with site improvements within the area proposed under
the site plan.
   (H)   The Director of Inspection and Engineering or Planning Commission may
attach conditions to the approval of the site development plan as may be
reasonably required by the public health, safety, and welfare.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.064 PRELIMINARY SITE PLANS.
   (A)   It is strongly recommended that, prior to submitting any plans, the
applicant meet with village officials regarding plan requirements.
   (B)   Every preliminary site plan submitted in accordance with this chapter
shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Location and acreage of various types of land use;
      (2)   Location, names, and dimensions of proposed and existing streets,
buildings, easements, and drainageways;
      (3)   Preliminary plans for the provision of utilities, including, but
not limited to, the methods for handling drainage, water supply, and sewage
disposal; and
      (4)   Proposed parking layout including ingress and egress.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.065 FINAL SITE PLANS.
   At the time of preliminary site plan review, the Planning Commission or
Director shall specify which of the following data shall be contained on the
final site plan:
   (A)   The owners, zoning, and present use of adjoining lands;
   (B)   Location of all minimum building setback lines;
   (C)   Location, type, and size of vehicular ingress and egress to the site;
   (D)   A boundary survey;
   (E)   Location, type, size, and height of all fencing, screening, and
buffering where required by this code;
   (F)   Existing topography with a maximum two-foot contour intervals and the
proposed finished grading by contour;
   (G)   Provisions for the adequate control of erosion and sedimentation
indicating the proposed temporary and permanent control practices and measures
which will be implemented during all phases of clearing, grading, and
construction;
   (H)   All off-street parking and parking bays, loading spaces, and walkways
indicating type of surfacing and showing the number of parking spaces provided
and the number required;
   (I)   Number of floors, floor area, height and location of each building,
and proposed general use for each building. In a multi-family residential
building, the number, size, and type of dwelling units shall be shown;
   (J)   Building elevations depicting actual composition and architectural
style for all proposed structures;
   (K)   Provisions for the adequate disposition of natural and stormwater on
and off-site, in accordance with current design criteria and construction
standards of the village, including, but not limited to, the calculation of the
contributing drainage area in acres and the location, size, type, and grade of
ditches, catch basins, inlets, pipes, and other drainage structures;
   (L)   All existing and proposed sanitary sewer facilities indicating all
pipe sizes, types, grades, invert elevations, location of manholes, and such
other data as may be deemed necessary by the Village Engineer;
   (M)   All existing and proposed water facilities including all water mains,
their sizes, valves, and fire hydrant locations;
   (N)   The location of any proposed refuse removal pads;
   (O)   Location and size of all recreation and open space areas;
   (P)   A landscaping and lighting plan;
   (Q)   Floodplain limits which shall be established by flood hazard maps on
file with the Director of Inspection and Engineering and/or engineering
methods;
   (R)   The location, width, size, and intended purpose of all easements and
right-of-way and whether they are to be publicly or privately maintained. A
plan copy, suitable for recording, shall be submitted showing any rights-of-way
and/or easements for public dedication;
   (S)   (1)   The following data relative to all existing and proposed
streets:
         (a)   Location;
         (b)   Width;
         (c)   Names;
         (d)   Curve data;
         (e)   Grades; and
         (f)   Site distances.
      (2)   Typical sections shall be provided for all proposed streets or
travel-ways.
   (T)   Such other relevant data as the Planning Commission or Director of
Inspection and Engineering may require.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.066 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   All improvements required by this chapter shall be installed at the
cost of the developer and in accordance with design and construction standards
of the village.
   (B)   Prior to approval of any site plan, there shall be executed by the
owner or developer and submitted with the site plan an agreement to construct
such required physical improvements as are located within public rights-of-way
or easements or as are connected to any public facility in form and substance
as approved by the village, together with a bond with surety, certified or
cashiers check in the amount of the estimated cost of the required improvements
as submitted by the developer and approved by the Village Engineer. The
aforesaid agreement and bond with surety shall be provided for completion of
all work covered thereby within the time to be determined by the Director of
Inspection and Engineering, which time may be extended upon written application
by the owner or developer, signed by all parties (including sureties) to the
original agreement. The Village Engineer may also require a restoration bond.
The bond shall be to insure repair of any damage done to existing curb, gutter,
sidewalk, street pavement, landscaping, or other items within the right-of-way
adjacent to a project. The amount of the bond shall be as determined by the
Village Engineer based on his or her estimate of potential damage.
   (C)   All street construction standards and geometric design standards shall
be in accord with those specified by the subdivision regulations of the village
except where specifically modified by the Village Engineer.
   (D)   Private vehicular travel lanes or driveways designed to permit
vehicular travel on the site and to and from adjacent property and parking
areas shall be constructed not less than 20 feet in width.
   (E)   No structure shall be located less than five feet from any easement.
   (F)   Adequate drainage for the disposition of storm and natural waters both
on and off-site shall be provided. The extent of both on-site and off-site
treatment shall be approved by the Village Engineer.
   (G)   Water service shall be based on the requirements of the Director of
Service and the Village Engineer.
   (H)   Sanitary sewer facilities shall be constructed in accordance with the
requirements of the Director of Service and the Village Engineer.
   (I)   In the preparation of site development plans, consideration will be
given to provide suitable areas for parks, schools, open space, and other areas
of public recreational use, especially when such facilities are proposed in the
area under consideration of the community Comprehensive Plan of the village.
   (J)   Fire hydrants shall be located within 150 feet of any proposed
structure and/or 300 feet from entry access to structure as apparatus travels,
as approved by the Village Engineer and the Wayne Township Fire Department.
   (K)   Provisions shall be made for sidewalks and pedestrian walkways which
will enable patrons, residents, and/or tenants to walk safely and conveniently
from one building to another within the site and to building and/or uses on
adjacent sites as well. Sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance with
village standards and the requirements of the Director of Service.
   (L)   Landscape planting, screening, buffering, fences, and other physical
improvements shall be provided by the developer in accordance with §§
153.275 through
153.281.
   (M)   All improvements that will ultimately be dedicated and become a part
of the village-owned infrastructure system shall be inspected full-time during
construction by the village or its authorized representative. The costs of such
inspection shall be paid by the developer.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.067 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued by any administrative officer for the
construction of any building or improvement requiring a permit in any area
covered by a site development plan except in conformity with the provisions of
this chapter and duly approved site development plan. No construction or site
improvements shall be initiated until the site plan has been approved.
   (B)   Any site development may be revised and such revisions shall be
accomplished in the same manner as the original approval; provided, however,
that minor technical changes which do not substantially alter the original site
plan may be authorized by the Director of Inspection and Engineering.
   (C)   Any requirement of this chapter may be waived by the Planning
Commission where such requirement is deemed to be restrictive or unreasonable,
provided such waiver is not adverse to the purpose and intent of this chapter.
   (D)   Upon satisfactory completion of the required improvements, the Village
Engineer shall release any remaining bonds.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICTS AND LISTED PROPERTIES
§ 153.080 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Council of the village, hereinafter referred to as the “village”,
hereby declares as a matter of policy that the preservation, protection,
perpetuation, and use of areas, places, buildings, structures, works of art,
and other objects having a special, historical, community, or aesthetic
interest or value is a public necessity and is required in the interest of the
health, prosperity, safety, and welfare of the residents of the village.
   (B)   The purpose of this subchapter is to:
      (1)   Maintain and enhance the distinctive character of historic
preservation districts and listed properties by safeguarding the architectural
integrity of the various period structures within and about them which together
create a rare panorama of Americana, and to prevent intrusions and alterations
within preservation districts that would be incompatible with this established
character;
      (2)   Protect and compliment the singular historic and architectural
quality of the area hereinafter defined as the preservation district, which is
essentially devoid of incompatible buildings and environmental features;
      (3)   Provide for the establishment of procedures whereby certain areas,
structures, objects, and works of art of historic, architectural, or cultural
importance to the community shall be safeguarded as listed properties and
allowed that measure of protection afforded by a thorough study of alternatives
to incompatible alterations or demolitions before such acts are performed; and
      (4)   Contribute to the economic, cultural, and educational development
of the village by:
         (a)   Stimulating business and attracting industry by maintaining a
high character of community development;
         (b)   Protecting and enhancing attractions to residents, tourists, and
visitors;
         (c)   Stabilizing and improving property values;
         (d)   Improving the quality of life by enhancing the visual and
aesthetic character, diversity, and interest of the village;
         (e)   Fostering civic pride in the beauty and notable accomplishments
of the past; and
         (f)   Promoting the use and preservation of historic locations,
architecturally significant structures, and other notable objects and sites for
the education, enrichment, and general welfare of the residents of the village
and the state.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.081 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVISORY PORTION OF DISTRICT (APD). The area within the Waynesville Historic
Preservation District, as designated on the zoning map, where a certificate of
appropriateness shall be only advisory to the owner unless the property has
attained individual historic designation status as set forth in §
153.092.
   ALTER or ALTERATION. Any material change in external features of any
property which lies within the area designated as a preservation district, or
has been listed under the provisions of this chapter, not including demolition,
removal, or construction.
   APPLICANT. Any owner, person, association, partnership, or corporation who
applies for a certificate of appropriateness in order to undertake any
environmental change on property subject to this subchapter.
   BOARD. The Waynesville Historic Preservation Board established under the
provisions of this chapter.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS. The written determination of the Historic
Preservation Board’s action with regard to proposed changes or alterations
within any preservation district, or to proposed changes or alterations to any
property subject to this chapter.
   DISPLAY. Includes erect, paint, repaint, place, replace, hang, rehang,
repair, maintain, paint directly upon a building or other structure, inlay,
embed in, or otherwise exhibit in public view.
   ENVIRONMENTAL CHANGE. Any alteration, demolition, removal, or construction
involving any property subject to the provisions of this subchapter, including
signs.
   LANDSCAPING. A major design or arrangement by planting or removal of the
effects of natural scenery including trees, shrubs and vines, together with
human-made materials or objects over a given tract of land for the purpose of
creating the best practical appearance to the land.
   LISTED PROPERTY. Any property which has special character, historical,
aesthetic, or architectural characteristics of the city, state, or the United
States, and which has been designated as a listed property pursuant to the
provisions of this subchapter.
   MANDATORY PORTION OF DISTRICT (MPD). The area within the Waynesville
Historic Preservation District, as designated on the zoning map, where a
certificate of appropriateness shall be mandatory for the owner of property.
   MEMBER. Any member of the Historic Preservation Board.
   OWNER. The owner of record of any property affected by this subchapter.
   PRESERVATION DISTRICT. The “Waynesville Historic Preservation District” as
designated by this subchapter, or any other district established by Council for
the purpose of maintaining and fostering a distinctive historical,
architectural, cultural, or environmental character.
   PROPERTY. Any place, building, structure, artifact, work of art, or similar
object constituting a physical betterment of real property.
   SIGN. Any symbol, device, image, poster, flag, banner, billboard, design, or
directional sign used for advertising purposes, whether painted upon, attached
to, erected on, or otherwise maintained on any premises; containing any words,
letters, figures, numerals, phrases, sentences, emblems, devices, trade names,
or trademarks by which anything is made known, such as are used to designate an
individual, a firm, an association, a corporation, a profession, a business, or
a commodity or place which is visible from any highway and used to attract
attention.
   USER. Any applicant legally using any property subject to the terms of this
subchapter that is not owned by the user.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 2010-003, passed 5-3-2010)
§ 153.082 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE WAYNESVILLE HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT.
   (A)   To further its purpose for the preservation of the architectural and
historical values within the village for the benefit of the village and the
state, there is hereby established the Waynesville Historic Preservation
District.
   (B)   The boundaries of the Historic Preservation District shall be as set
forth on the zoning map of the village adopted by Ord. 96-187, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 700, passed 12-28-1983; Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.083 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE HISTORIC PRESERVATION BOARD.
   There is hereby created the Waynesville Historic Preservation Board,
hereinafter referred to as the “Board”, consisting of seven members appointed
by Village Council (per Charter §§
7.01,
7.11, and
7.12): one member of the Planning Commission, one member of the Village
Council, one member of the Main Street Business District, one representative of
the Historical Society, and three residents of the village. Members shall have
a recognized knowledge of or a known interest or experience in history,
architecture, or related disciplines, together with a determination to work for
the overall improvement of the quality of the village’s physical environment.
Of the membership, at least two preservation-related professional members shall
be nominated to the extent such professionals are available in the community.
Consideration should be given to the appointment of an architect and/or other
design professionals, an attorney, a licensed real estate broker, an
architectural historian, or any other person having special knowledge or
relevance to the Board’s purposes and duties. Each appointed member shall serve
a term of two years with the exception of the initial appointments, three of
which shall be appointed for a one- year term and may be reappointed for a
second term of two years. All members may serve subsequent terms, except
Planning Commission and Council members may change yearly. The members shall
serve without compensation. Vacancies shall be filled within 60 days unless
extenuating circumstances require a longer period.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.084 ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE OF THE BOARD.
   (A)   As soon as convenient following their appointment to the Board, the
members shall meet and organize by election of a Chairperson and a secretary. A
majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum; however, no
application for approval shall be recommended for denial except by the
affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board. All motions shall be made
in the affirmative, even if the proposer intends to vote in the negative.
   (B)   The Board shall make such rules and regulations as it may determine
advisable and necessary for the conducting of its affairs, not inconsistent
with the laws of the village and state permitted for regular and special
meetings to accomplish the purpose of this chapter, and shall make them
available for public inspection at all times. The Board shall meet at least
monthly, but meetings may be held at any time by the Board, or on the written
request of any of its members. All meetings and records of the Board shall be
public, and minutes of such meetings shall be a matter of public record. All
meetings of the Board shall be publicly announced and have a previously-posted
agenda.
   (C)   The Board may request a public hearing when considering the
eligibility of any property proposed to be added to any preservation district
or proposed for individual listing on the village’s register. The Board may
request a public hearing when making a nomination to the Historic Register or
when reviewing such a nomination for approval which was prepared by others.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.085 DUTIES OF THE BOARD.
   The Board shall have the following duties in addition to those as otherwise
specified in this chapter.
   (A)   The Board shall function to improve the quality of life in this
village by striving to further and achieve the spirit and purpose of this
subchapter.
   (B)   The Board shall conduct or cause to be conducted or assist the conduct
of a continuing survey of all structures, works of art, objects, or areas of
architectural, historic, or aesthetic interest in the village which the Board,
on the basis of information available or presented to it, has reason to believe
are, or will be, eligible for designation as a preservation district or listed
property.
   (C)   The Board shall work for the continuing education of its members and
residents of the village with respect to the architectural and historic
heritage of the Waynesville Historic Preservation District, the village, listed
properties and any other preservation district designated under the provisions
of this chapter, and shall make every effort to improve the overall design and
environmental awareness of the people.
      (1)   The Board shall make an inventory of the designated districts,
sites, and/or structures under its jurisdiction, and record the inventory on
Ohio Historic Inventory, Ohio Archaeological inventory forms, and/or other
forms compatible with the computerized inventory of the state’s Historic
Preservation Office.
      (2)   The Board shall keep current a register of all listed properties,
and all listed properties shall be given a number and a description accompanied
by a photograph.
      (3)   This inventory and register shall be maintained securely with
copies made available to Council, the Building Department, the Planning
Commission, the Inspection and Engineering Department, the Board of Zoning and
Building Appeals, and the state’s Historic Preservation Office. The inventory
and register shall be accessible to the public, except that access to
archaeological site locations may be restricted. The survey and register shall
be updated periodically to reflect changes, alterations, and demolitions.
   (D)   The Board shall have authority to establish, within the interest,
spirit, and purpose of this subchapter, criteria, rules, and regulations not
otherwise included in this subchapter for evaluating applications for
certificates of appropriateness as hereinafter defined, which are submitted to
it, and the manner in which such certificates shall be processed. The Board may
adopt policies, guidelines, and technical bulletins prepared by professionals
experienced in rehabilitating historic buildings and properties to assist its
own members in deliberations and to assist the general public in its
understanding of appropriate modifications to historic properties.
   (E)   The Board shall determine within the interest, spirit, and purpose of
this subchapter, what legislation, if any, would best serve to preserve,
restore, and develop the village, or any part of the village, and recommend
such legislation to the Planning Commission and Council. Toward these ends, the
Board shall work with the appropriate village officials, employees, and
departments, and joint meetings with such officials, employees, and departments
for this purpose.
   (F)   Members of the Board shall abstain from taking action on any matter
that would present a conflict of interest. No member of the Board shall have a
financial interest, direct or indirect, or by reason of ownership of stock in
any corporation (except as permitted by the laws the state) in any matter
pending before the Board. In the event that such a conflict arises, the
affected member shall leave the room wherein the Board is holding its meeting
and shall abstain from discussion and voting on the issue or matter in which he
or she has such an interest. The affected member shall not be required to
resign from the Board. Any willful violation of this section shall constitute
malfeasance in office, and any member of the Board found guilty thereof shall
thereby forfeit his or her office or position.
   (G)   The Board shall offer guidance or otherwise assist individuals
concerned with historic preservation in their efforts to improve their property
or area.
   (H)   The Board may, upon its own determination, make recommendations to
Council for additions or revisions to this subchapter. Members of the Board
shall abstain from taking action on any matter that would present a conflict of
interest. See division (F) of this section.
   (I)   (1)   The Board shall review, for the purpose of recommending, all
proposed National Register nominations for properties within its jurisdiction,
and may by written agreement cooperate with the state’s Historic Preservation
office to substitute review procedures which expedite the National Register
review requirement.
      (2)   When the Board considers a National Register nomination for
distinctive or rare resources (such as an archaeological site) which are
normally evaluated by a professional in a specific discipline (such as
archaeologist), and that discipline is not represented on the Board, the Board
shall seek expertise in this area before rendering its decision.
   (J)   The Board shall encourage members to attend educational sessions at
least once a year, or conduct in-depth consultation with the state’s Historic
Preservation office, pertaining to the work and functions of the Board or on
specific historic preservation issues.
   (K)   The Board shall prepare a written annual report of activities, cases,
decisions, special projects and qualifications of the members, and the same
shall be kept on file and available for public inspection.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.086 LIMITATIONS ON ISSUANCE OF BUILDING, DEMOLITION AND SIGN PERMITS.
   No permit shall be issued for the construction, reconstruction, alteration,
or demolition of any structure, work of art, object, or area within a
preservation district, or for any listed property, except in cases coming under
the section on exclusions in this subchapter, unless the application for such
permit is approved by the Board through the issuance of a certificate of
appropriateness in the manner prescribed in this subchapter. No sign permit
shall be issued for any sign or display to be erected or placed within a
preservation district, or for any sign or display to be attached to, or erected
upon, any listed property unless a certificate of appropriateness has been
issued for that sign or display in the manner prescribed herein.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.087 ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   The procedure for the issuance of a certificate of appropriateness
(hereinafter referred to as a “certificate”) shall be as follows.
   (A)   When the owner or user of a property within a preservation district,
or an otherwise listed property, desires to make any environmental change,
including the construction of a building or an addition, reconstruction,
demolition, erection of a sign, or display, or landscaping, he or she shall
first obtain a written certificate from the Board.
   (B)   If the proposed work requires a building or a sign permit, the owner
or user shall file an application through the Building Department which shall
then refer the matter to the Board. If the change or sign is not incompatible
with nor does it adversely affect any historic, architectural, or environmental
feature of the property, or physically related properties which are also within
a preservation district or otherwise listed, and does not violate the spirit
and purpose of this subchapter, then the Board shall issue an approved written
certificate and the owner or user may proceed.
   (C)   (1)   If, after due consideration by the Board, it is determined that
the change or sign would have an adverse effect on properties subject to the
provisions of this subchapter, then the Board shall deny the issuance of the
certificate.
      (2)   The Board shall state reasons for such disapproval in writing and
transmit the written statement to the applicant together with recommendations
the Board may have made for appropriate changes. (See appeals procedures, §
153.094.)
   (D)   In the case of an inappropriate change, sign proposal, or landscape
plan, the Board shall, during this waiting period, attempt to work out an
alternate plan with the owner or user, or his or her representative, that is
acceptable to all parties. In the case of a proposed demolition, the Board
shall attempt to find practicable alternatives to such demolition.
   (E)   (1)   Within 30 calendar days after the date of filing of an
application for a certificate, the Board shall decide whether the proposed
change, sign, or landscaping is appropriate.
      (2)   The Board is obligated to act as quickly as possible on all
applications so as to cause as little inconvenience to the owner or user as is
possible, and shall attempt, where the proposed change, sign, display, or
landscaping is inappropriate, to keep the waiting period as brief as it may be.
Where a recommendation of disapproval is made to Council, the reasons shall be
set forth in writing.
   (F)   Where the position of the Board is overruled by Council, a certificate
shall automatically be issued upon such action.
   (G)   Notwithstanding the other provisions of this section, if the property
is located in the Advisory Portion of District (APD) and not in the Mandatory
Portion of District (MPD), a certificate of appropriateness shall be advisory
only to the owner and shall be designated as “ADVISORY” marked in plain letters
on the certificate of appropriateness. An owner may proceed with environmental
changes only after the Board provides said advisory certificate of
appropriateness.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 2010-003, passed 5-3-2010)
§ 153.088 CRITERIA FOR EVALUATING APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF
APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   In considering the appropriateness of any environmental changes,
including signs, displays, or landscaping, the Board shall take into account,
in addition to any other pertinent factors, the historical and architectural
style and general design, arrangement, texture, material, and color of the
proposed changes as they relate to the property in its present condition, and
shall also consider the relation thereof to the same or related factors in
other properties, objects, and areas in the immediate vicinity.
   (B)   Attention shall be taken to avoid the environmentally harmful effect
often created by the clash of historic brick, stone, masonry, and wood building
materials with undisguised contemporary materials, such as aluminum or other
metals, plastic, fiberglass, and glass.
   (C)   The Board shall refer to the Standards for Rehabilitation, prepared by
the Secretary of the Interior, and the criteria and guidelines for
architectural, sign, and design review established by the Board pursuant to the
terms of this chapter.
   (D)   The Board shall consider the advice of those consultants whose opinion
is sought by the Board with respect to any application for a certificate.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.089 EXCLUSIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prevent the ordinary
maintenance or repair of any property, area, or object within a preservation
district, or otherwise listed under the provisions of this subchapter, provided
such work involves no change in material, design, texture, color, or outer
appearance; nor shall anything in this subchapter be construed to prevent any
environmental change, including the construction, reconstruction, alteration,
demolition, or landscaping of any feature which, in view of the proper
authority acting lawfully, is required for the public safety because of an
unsafe or dangerous condition. However, no demolition permit shall be issued
except upon the certification of a registered professional engineer or
architect that the structure of a building is unsound or would need major
reinforcement to be brought under building code structural requirements,
considering a use that the building would reasonably lend itself to.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.090 PROVISIONS OF SUBCHAPTER PREVAIL IN CASE OF CONFLICT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall govern and take precedence over any
other provisions of the Zoning Code of the village.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.091 DESIGNATION CRITERIA FOR ADDITIONAL PRESERVATION DISTRICTS AND LISTED
PROPERTIES.
   In considering the designation of any area, structure, work of art, or
similar object in the village as a preservation district or listed property,
the Board shall apply, in addition to any other available information, the
following criteria:
   (A)   The character, interest, or value of the area or listed property as
part of the development, heritage, or cultural characteristics of the village,
the state, or the country;
   (B)   The location as a site of a significant historic event;
   (C)   The identification with a person or persons who significantly
contributed to the culture and development of the village;
   (D)   The exemplification by the area or listed property of the cultural,
economic, social, or historic heritage of the village;
   (E)   The portrayal of the environment of a group of people in an era of
history characterized by a distinctive architectural style;
   (F)   The embodiment of distinguishing characteristics of an architectural
type or specimen;
   (G)   Identification as the work of an architect or notable builder whose
individual work has influenced the development of the village;
   (H)   The embodiment of elements of architectural design, detail, materials,
or craftsmanship which represent architecture of significant character, charm,
or grandeur;
   (I)   The relationship to other distinctive areas or structures which are
eligible for preservation according to a plan based on an historic,
environmental, cultural, educational, or architectural theme; and
   (J)   A unique location or singular physical characteristic representing an
established and familiar visual feature of a neighborhood, community, or the
village.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.092 PROCEDURE FOR ESTABLISHING PRESERVATION DISTRICTS AND LISTING OF
PROPERTIES.
   (A)   Proposals to establish a preservation district or to list an
individual property structure, object, or work of art as a listed property
under this subchapter may be initiated by the Board or received by the Board.
Property owners, lessees, or persons having an interest in the property or duly
authorized agents of such owners, lessees, or persons may propose their own
property for listing, on a form provided by the Board.
   (B)   The Board shall consider the proposal in terms of the criteria
provided in §
153.091 and shall make a recommendation of the majority of the Board to Council
on such proposal. The rationale for establishing a preservation district or
listing a property shall be set forth in writing along with supporting
documentation.
   (C)   An individual property may be listed by the Board acting on its own
behalf, with the written consent of the property owner. Where owner consent for
an individual listing is not obtained, and in the case of all preservation
districts, a public hearing shall be held by Village Council.
   (D)   Council shall give due consideration to the findings and
recommendations of the Board in making its determination with respect to the
proposed designation of preservation districts or listed property under this
chapter. Upon conclusion of the public hearing, Council may designate the
preservation district or listed property.
   (E)   After the decision by Council, the Board shall notify in writing any
owner or any person having a legal or equitable interest in such property as
identified in the application of the decision.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.093 VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Order for discontinuance and removal of violation. If the Director of
the Department of Inspection and Engineering, or a duly authorized
representative, finds that any property is in violation of any of the
provisions of this subchapter, he or she shall order discontinuance of the
violation, removal of illegal buildings or additions, alterations or structural
changes, signs or displays, as the case may be. After such order is served or
posted on the premises, no work shall thereafter be conducted except to correct
the violation or comply with such notice.
   (B)   Injunction. In the event any building or structure is being erected,
constructed, altered, repaired, or maintained in violation of the provisions of
this subchapter and/or any permits issued after determination and issuance of a
certificate, or there is an imminent threat of violation, the village or the
owner of any contiguous or neighboring property who would be especially damaged
by such violation may institute and maintain, in addition to any other remedies
provided by law, a suit in the appropriate court for injunction to terminate or
prevent such violation as a public nuisance.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.094 APPEALS PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Historic Preservation Board shall make every effort by working
with the applicant to develop a proposal for an environmental change or sign or
display or landscaping that shall be compatible with the terms of the
subchapter so that a certificate of appropriateness can be issued by the Board.
In the instance wherein the Board may have denied a certificate, the Board may
ask one of its members to work with the applicant, or may convene special
meetings, to seek resolution of incompatible aspects of the applicant’s
original proposal. If resolution has not been achieved by the end of a six-week
period from the date of Board denial of the request for a certificate, the
applicant may request an appeal in writing at which time the Board shall refer
the matter to Council together with the Board’s recommendations concerning the
application.
   (B)   The Historic Preservation Board may also refer the application to
Council at any time during the six-week period if it believes that a
satisfactory resolution of issues may not be possible.
   (C)   If no appeal is sought by either the applicant or the Board, the
process of application and appeal may be repeated after 12 months from the date
of the original application.
   (D)   The Council, functioning under its own rules of procedure, shall give
consideration to the findings and recommendations of the Board, the owner or
user, and the views expressed by persons participating in public hearings which
Council may hold. Upon its conclusion, Council shall determine whether or not a
certificate shall be issued. After 12 months, the process of application and
appeal may be repeated. The owner or user may be required by Council to delay
the proposed construction, reconstruction, or alteration for up to one year. If
the application involves demolition, the owner or user may be required by
Council to delay the work for up to two years. Sign applications may be
permanently denied by Council.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED
§ 153.110 DIVISION INTO DISTRICTS.
   For the purposes of this Zoning Code, the village is hereby divided into
categories of zoning districts. Such districts are designated as follows:
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
Limited Density Residential District (R-1)
Low Density Residential District (R-2 and R-3)
Medium Density Residential District (R-4 and R-5)
Two-Family Residential District (R-6)
Multi-Family Residential District (AR-1)
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS:
Neighborhood Commercial District (NC)
General Commercial District (GC)
Suburban-Office District (SO)
MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS:
Limited Manufacturing District (LM)
PLANNED DISTRICTS:
Planned Residential District (PRD)
Planned Commercial District (PCD)
Planned Industrial District (PID)
Planned Unit District (PUD)
OVERLAY DISTRICTS:
Limited Commercial Overlay District (LC)
Limited Residential Overlay District (LR)
SUPPLEMENTAL DISTRICTS:
Floodplain District (FP)
Exceptional Use District (EU)
Wellhead Protection District (WHP)
 
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
Charter reference:
   Zoning powers of Council, see Charter §
3.09
Statutory reference:
   Basis of districts; Council may amend districting or zoning, see R.C. §
713.10
§ 153.111 BOUNDARIES; ZONING MAP.
   (A)   Districts and boundaries established. The several districts and
boundaries thereof are hereby adopted and established as shown on the zoning
map of the village, which map, together with all notations, references, data,
district boundaries, and other information shown thereon, are hereby made a
part of this Zoning Code. Such zoning map, properly attested, shall remain on
file in the Village Hall. Such zoning map may be amended in accordance with
this chapter.
   (B)   District boundaries. Except when referenced on such map to a street or
alley or other designated line by dimensions shown on such map, the district
boundary lines follow property lot lines, the centerlines of watercourses, or
the centerlines of rights-of-way, both streets and alleys, as they existed at
the time of the adoption of this chapter.
   (C)   Uncertainty as to boundaries or textual provisions; interpretation.
All questions concerning the exact location of district boundary lines shall be
determined by the Director of Inspection and Engineering. Appeals of the
determination shall be made as provided under §
153.040(E).
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 2010-003, passed 5-3-2010)
Editor’s note:
   The zoning map of the Village of Waynesville was adopted by Ordinance 96-
187, passed January 6, 1997. See
Table I in the Table of Special Ordinances for a list of ordinances amending
the zoning map.
§ 153.112 VACATED STREET OR ALLEY.
   Whenever any street, alley, or other public right-of-way is vacated by
official action as provided by law, the zoning district adjoining the side of
such public right-of-way shall be extended automatically, depending on the side
or sides to which such lands revert, to include the right-of-way thus vacated,
which shall thenceforth be subject to all regulations of the extended district
or districts.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.113 ANNEXATIONS.
   For land annexed to the village following enactment of this Zoning Code,
such land shall automatically become zoned, without payment of a fee, in the
Limited Density Residential District (R-1) if such land is undeveloped. The
property owner and/or his or her representative shall in all cases reserve the
right to apply for any desired zoning map amendment of the land following the
effective date of the annexation. If the land is developed or occupied by a use
other than agriculture, an application shall be filed by the property owner
and/or his or her representative to amend the zoning map within 30 days of the
effective date of the annexation.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Zoning of annexed areas, see R.C. §§ 303.18 and 519.18
GENERAL ZONING REGULATIONS
§ 153.130 CONFORMANCE REQUIRED.
   Except as hereinafter specified, no land, building, structure, or premises
shall hereafter be used, and no building or part thereof, or other structure,
shall be located, erected, moved, reconstructed, extended, enlarged, or altered
except in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the district in
which it is located; such regulations include, without limitation, the
following: the specific use of buildings, structures, or land, including
performance standards for the control of any dangerous and objectionable
elements in connection with such use; the height, size, and dimensions of
buildings or structures; the size or dimensions of lots, yards, and other open
spaces surrounding buildings; the provision, location, size, improvement, and
operation of off-street parking, loading, and unloading spaces.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996) Penalty, see §
153.999
Statutory reference:
   Violation of zoning ordinances, see R.C. § 713.13
§ 153.131 PROHIBITED USES.
   Uses not expressly permitted in the Zoning Code, except as approved when
appropriate under the Exceptional Use District (EU), are thereby prohibited.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.132 CONVERSION TO DWELLINGS.
   The conversion of any building into a dwelling or the conversion of any
dwelling so as to accommodate an increased number of dwelling units or
households shall be permitted only within a district in which a new building
for similar occupancy would be permitted under this Zoning Code and only when
the resulting occupancy will comply with the requirements governing new
construction in such district with respect to minimum lot size, lot area per
dwelling unit, percentage of lot coverage, dimensions of yards and other open
spaces, and off-street parking. Each conversion shall be subject also to such
further requirements as may be specified hereinafter to such district.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.133 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS WITHOUT MAIN BUILDING.
   In any district, no accessory building or structure shall be erected or
constructed prior to the erection or construction of the principal or main
building with the exception of the contractor’s temporary building.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.134 REQUIRED AREA OR SPACE CANNOT BE REDUCED.
   No lot, yard, court, parking area, or other space shall be reduced in area
or dimension so as to make such area or dimension less than the minimum
required by this Zoning Code. No part of a yard, court, parking area, or other
space provided about, or for, any building or structure for the purpose of
complying with the provisions of this chapter shall be included as part of a
yard, court, parking area, or other space required under this chapter for
another building or structure.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.135 UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   Nothing in this Zoning Code shall prevent the strengthening or restoring to
a safe condition of any part of any building or structure declared unsafe by
proper authority and notice of such shall be provided to the village.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Removal of unsafe structures, see R.C. §§ 715.26(B) and 715.261
§ 153.136 PENDING APPLICATIONS FOR BUILDING PERMITS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall require any change in the overall layout
plans, construction, size, and designated use of any development, building,
structure, or part thereof, for which official approvals and required building
permits have been granted before the enactment of this zoning chapter and for
which construction shall have begun prior to the effective date of this
chapter.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.137 CORNER LOT VISIBILITY.
   On a corner lot in any residential district, nothing shall be erected,
constructed, placed, planted, or allowed to grow in such a manner as materially
to impede vision between a height of two and one-half feet and ten feet above
the centerline grades of the intersecting streets in the area bounded by the
street lines of such corner lots and a line joining points along the street
lines 50 feet from the point of the intersection.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.138 STORAGE OF CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS.
   In any residential district, the storage of construction materials on any
one lot shall be limited to the quantity of material required for the
construction, renovation, or enlargement of the dwelling unit or units proposed
for the lot; provided, the plans for such dwelling unit or units have been
previously reviewed by the Zoning Director and approved by the Building
Inspector.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.139 OBJECTIONABLE ELEMENT OR CONDITION.
   No land, building, or structure in any district shall be used or occupied in
any manner so as to create any dangerous, injurious, noxious, or otherwise
objectionable element or condition so as to adversely affect the surrounding
area or adjoining premises; provided, that any use permitted by this chapter
may be undertaken and maintained if acceptable measures and safeguards are
employed to limit dangerous and objectionable elements to acceptable limits as
determined by the village ordinances.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.140 PLATTING REQUIRED.
   No use shall be established or altered and no structure shall be constructed
or altered except upon a lot that has been platted in accordance with or which
otherwise meets the requirements of the subdivision regulations of the village
(see
Chapter 152 of these codified ordinances). Development standards of this Zoning
Code are minimum requirements, unless otherwise stated, for the arrangement of
lots and spaces to be achieved in all developments.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.141 BUILDING LINES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Building lines established. Along every street right-of-way, a
building line shall be established from the existing right-of-way or proposed
right-of-way as indicated in the village’s Thoroughfare Plan, as amended,
whichever is greater in width, that shall constitute the required front yard
setback as established in the applicable zoning district.
   (B)   Required setback defined. The required setback is that distance
between the established building line and the actual or proposed right-of-way.
No structure or other use of land, except parking as defined in division (C) of
this section, shall locate in the required setback. In no case shall the
required setback be less than the minimum required in the applicable zoning
district.
   (C)   Parking within the required setback. Open parking or loading spaces
shall be permitted to extend toward the street right-of-way from the
established building line a distance equal to 40% of the required setback
distance as measured from the actual or proposed right-of-way. In no case shall
any part of a parking area be closer than 15 feet to any established or
proposed right-of-way.
   (D)   Platted setback. No structure or other use, including parking, shall
be located between the street right-of-way and the platted building line as
shown on an approved and recorded subdivision plat.
   (E)   Reduced setback. If existing structures or uses on lots adjacent to
each side of a lot have a setback less than the setback line established by
these regulations, the setback on the center lot shall be the average setback
established on the adjacent lots.
   (F)   Display in front setback prohibited. Within the front building setback
and side building setbacks adjacent to public right-of-way, there shall be no
storage or display of any materials, equipment, inventory, merchandise, or
wares. This provision is applicable in all NC, GC, SO, and LM Zoning Districts
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.142 PROHIBITION OF MINERAL EXTRACTION.
   The extraction of oil, natural gas, coal, limestone, gravel, sand, clay, and
other similar minerals, excluding water, shall be prohibited within the
village.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.143 MODIFICATION OF DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   In any district where dwellings are permitted, a permitted residential
dwelling may be erected on any lot of official record on the effective date of
this chapter even though such lot does not comply with the minimum lot area and
minimum width requirements of such district; provided, the lot has a minimum of
40 feet of frontage on an improved public street and further provided the
following conditions are met:
   (A)   If the owner of such lot does not own adjoining property and did not
own such property at the time this chapter became effective:
      (1)   Each required side yard may be reduced by two inches for every foot
that is narrower than the required lot width at the building line, but in no
case shall each required side yard be less than four feet. Such dedications
shall not apply to structures higher than two stories;
      (2)   Required rear yards shall be 25% of the lot depth, but in no case
shall be less than 15 feet; and
      (3)   Required building line, see §
153.141(E).
   (B)   If the owner of such lot does own adjoining property and owned such
property at the time this chapter became effective, then in order to erect a
dwelling that meets district dimensional requirements, such lots shall be
combined to create a parcel that meets the requirements.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.144 CORNER LOT SETBACKS.
   (A)   In any district the front of a corner lot shall be deemed to be the
shorter of the two sides fronting on streets.
   (B)   The minimum setback on the side facing the side street shall be 35
feet.
   (C)   The minimum lot width for corner lots shall be 15 feet greater than
the width required for interior lots in the same district.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.145 ONE USE PER RECORDED LOT.
   In all residential districts, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-5, R-6, and AR-1, there
shall not be more than one permitted, principal use on each recorded lot.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.146 MULTIPLE COMMERCIAL/MANUFACTURING USES PERMITTED.
   In all commercial/manufacturing districts, NC, GC, SO, and LM, multiple uses
may be permitted on a single lot of record subject to the following standards.
   (A)   Uses shown on approved final site plan. Multiple uses may be permitted
on a single lot of record when such uses are shown on an approved final site
plan.
   (B)   Use permit issued. Multiple uses may be permitted on a single lot of
record when such uses are located in a multi-tenant structure and a use permit
is issued for the various uses.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.147 LOCATION OF VENDING MACHINES.
   (A)   Generally. All vending machines shall only be displayed, maintained,
or stored in a completely enclosed structure meeting the requirements of this
code.
   (B)   Vending machines defined. Vending machine shall include, but is not
limited to, beverage machines, candy machines, cigarette machines, and ice
machines.
   (C)   Exemption for telephones. Public telephone facilities shown on an
approved site plan shall be exempt from this provision.
   (D)   Exemption for newspapers sales. Vending machines for the sale or
distribution of newspapers of general circulation shall be exempt from this
provision.
   (E)   Location of newspaper vending machines. Vending machines for the sale
or distribution of newspapers of general circulation shall not be located in
such a manner as to obstruct the public rights- of-way or to impede traffic on
the rights-of-way.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.148 VEHICLE SALES.
   (A)   Generally. The business of selling used or previously owned vehicles
shall be permitted only in conjunction with dealerships for the sale of new
vehicles and must be located on the same site as the new vehicle dealerships.
   (B)   Casual sale exempted. This section shall not control the casual sale
of used vehicles. CASUAL SALE is defined as less than five vehicles per
calendar year by an individual not possessing a license for same issued by the
state.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.149 ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN REQUIREMENTS AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW GUIDELINES
FOR NONRESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENTS OUTSIDE OF HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Architectural design requirements and architectural review guidelines
for nonresidential developments outside of historic districts are hereby
adopted.
   (B)   The design requirements and review guidelines adopted by this section
are set forth in Exhibit A to Ord. 2000-069 and incorporated herein by
reference.
(Ord. 2000-069, passed 12-4-2000)
Cross-reference:
   Historic preservation districts and listed properties, §§
153.080 through
153.094
§ 153.150 MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROHIBITION.
   Pursuant to the authority set forth in R.C. § 3796.29, medical marijuana
cultivation, processing, and retail dispensaries as licensed and defined under
R.C. Chapter 3796 shall not be permitted in any zoning district in the village.
(Ord. 2017-070, passed 12-18-2017) Penalty, see §
153.999
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 153.165 LIMITED DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-1).
   (A)   Purpose. The Limited Density Residential District (R-1) is established
as a low density, detached, single-family residential district serviced by
public water and sanitary sewer systems where physical conditions limit the
suitability of servicing by on-site systems. The R-1 District is most
appropriate in less developed portions of the village, serving as a transition
between rural, predominantly agricultural areas and more developed areas.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Land and buildings in the Limited Density Residential
District (R-1) shall be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Single-family detached dwellings;
      (2)   Accessory buildings and uses in association with a permitted
dwelling;
      (3)   Home occupations in accordance with §
153.197; and
      (4)   Private kennels.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be allowed in the Limited
Density Residential District (R-1) subject to approval in accordance with §
153.042:
      (1)   Churches and other similar places of worship and parish houses,
provided there are at least 100 seats or similar accommodations in the main
assembly hall;
      (2)   Public uses: parks, playgrounds, recreation and community center
buildings and grounds, golf courses, public swimming pools, tennis courts, and
similar recreational uses, provided that any principal building or swimming
pool used therefor shall be located not less than 150 feet from any lot in any
residential district;
      (3)   Public and private schools;
      (4)   Home occupations associated with a principal use and in accordance
with §
153.197;
      (5)   Rest homes, nursing homes, and children’s nurseries of day care
centers;
      (6)   Customary agricultural operations, including the sale of produce
raised on the premises, provided such operation is over ten acres in area and
further provided that no storage of manure or odor or dust-producing substance
or use of the housing of farm animals shall be permitted; and
      (7)   Accessory structures used as private kennels.
   (D)   Development standards.
      (1)   Lot and building requirements. The following lot and building
requirements are minimum standards, except where noted, and shall apply in the
Limited Density Residential District (R-1):
         (a)   Lot area: 25,000 square feet;
         (b)   Lot coverage (maximum): 30%;
         (c)   Lot width: 100 feet of frontage on an improved public right-of-
way;
         (d)   Lot width on a curving street or cul-de-sac: 60 feet of frontage
on an improved public right-of-way and lot width shall be 100 feet at the
minimum building line;
         (e)   Front yard setback: 60 feet as measured between the street
right-of-way line and the building setback line;
         (f)   Side yard setback: 25 feet with a minimum of ten feet on any one
side; for a conditional use, the side yard setback shall be 25 feet;
         (g)   Rear yard setback: 40 feet as measured from the rear property
line; an accessory building may be located in the rear yard no less than eight
feet from the rear property line; and
         (h)   Dwelling dimensions: the following dwelling dimensions measured
in terms of square footage apply to all residential structures:
 
Dwelling Type Ground Floor Area (Sq. Ft.) Finished Floor Area (Sq. Ft.)
2 story       1,100                       2,200
1-1/2 story   1,400                       2,000
1 story       1,800                       1,800
Split level   1,800                       1,800
 
      (2)   Supplemental standards. The following supplemental standards shall
apply within the Limited Density Residential District (R-1).
         (a)   No building shall exceed 30 feet in height, nor more than two
stories in height.
         (b)   Any building with a height in excess of one and one-half stories
or 20 feet shall have a basement unless that building’s use is designed for 100
or more people.
         (c)   Applicable standards shall be met in corresponding provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 98-159, passed 11-16-1998)
         (d)   Any building designed for the use of 50 or more people must be
compliant with FEMA P-361 "Safe Rooms for Tornados and Hurricanes, Guidance for
Community and Residential Safe Rooms", Third Edition or later. As an
alternative, buildings designed for the use of 50 or more people can have a
basement suitable for use as a tornado safe area.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 98-159, passed 11-16-1998; Ord. 2019-046,
passed 9-3-2019)
Cross-reference:
   Accessory uses and structures, see §
153.200
   Ground satellite stations, see §
153.198
   Home occupations, see §
153.197
   Signs, see §§
153.250 through
153.261
   Swimming pools, see §
153.190
   Yard and frontage modifications, see §§
153.215 through
153.218
   Yard projections; fences, see §
153.216
§ 153.166 LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-2 AND R-3).
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The R-2 District is established as a low to moderate density,
detached, single-family residential district and shall be serviced by public
water and sanitary sewer systems. The R-2 District provides a transition
towards more highly developed portions of the village.
      (2)   The R-3 District is established as a moderate density, detached,
single-family residential district and shall be serviced by public water and
sanitary sewer systems. The R-3 provides for a residential character more dense
than the R-2 District and where economies of scale support additional utility
and infrastructure services.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Land and buildings in the Low Density Residential
District (R-2 and R-3) shall be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Single-family detached dwellings;
      (2)   Accessory buildings and uses in association with a permitted
dwelling;
      (3)   Home occupation in accordance with §
153.197; and
      (4)   Private kennels.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be allowed in the Low Density
Residential District (R-2 and R-3) subject to approval in accordance with §
153.042:
      (1)   Churches and other similar places of worship and parish houses,
provided there are at least 100 seats or similar accommodations in the main
assembly hall;
      (2)   Public uses: parks, playgrounds, recreation and community center
buildings and grounds, golf courses, public swimming pools, tennis courts, and
similar recreational uses, provided that any principal building or swimming
pool used therefor shall be located not less than 150 feet from any lot in any
residential district;
      (3)   Public and private schools;
      (4)   Home occupations associated with a principal use and in accordance
with §
153.197;
      (5)   Customary agricultural operations, including the sale of produce
raised on the premises, provided such operation is over ten acres in area and
further provided that no storage of manure or odor or dust producing substance
or use of the housing of farm animals shall be permitted;
      (6)   Accessory structures used as private kennels;
      (7)   Day care centers; and
      (8)   Public libraries.
   (D)   Development standards.
      (1)   Lot and building requirements. The following lot and building
requirements are minimum standards, except where noted, and shall apply in the
Low Density Residential District (R-2 and R-3):
         (a)   Lot area:
            1.   R-2: 15,000 square feet; and
            2.   R-3: 12,500 square feet.
         (b)   Lot coverage (maximum): 30%.
         (c)   Lot width:
            1.   R-2: 90 feet of frontage on an improved public right-of-way;
and
            2.   R-3: 80 feet of frontage on an improved public right-of-way.
         (d)   Lot width on a curving street or cul-de-sac:
            1.   R-2: 50 feet of frontage on an improved public right-of-way
and lot width shall be 90 feet at the minimum building line; and
            2.   R-3: 45 feet of frontage on an improved public right-of-way
and lot width shall be 80 feet at the minimum building line.
         (e)   Front yard setback:
            1.   R-2: 40 feet as measured between the street right-of-way line
and the building setback line; and
            2.   R-3: 30 feet as measured between the street right-of-way line
and the building setback line.
         (f)   Side yard setback:
            1.   R-2: total side yard of 25 feet with a minimum of ten feet on
any one side;
            2.   R-3: total side yard of 20 feet with a minimum of eight feet
on any one side; and
            3.   Conditional use (R-2 and R-3): a minimum side yard of 25 feet.
         (g)   Rear yard setback:
            1.   R-2: 40 feet as measured from the rear property line;
            2.   R-3: 30 feet as measured from the rear property line; and
            3.   Accessory building (R-2 and R-3): may be located in the rear
yard no less than eight feet from the rear property line.
         (h)   Dwelling dimensions: the following dwelling dimensions measured
in terms of square footage shall apply to all residential dwellings in the R-
2 and R-3 districts:
Dwelling Ground Floor Area (Sq. Ft.) Finished Floor Area (Sq. Ft.)
Dwelling    Ground Floor Area (Sq. Ft.) Finished Floor Area (Sq. Ft.)
R-2
2 story     950                         1,900
1-1/2 story 1,250                       1,700
1 story     1,500                       1,500
Split level 1,500                       1,500
R-3
2 story     950                         1,800
1-1/2 story 1,250                       1,700
1 story     1,500                       1,500
Split level 1,500                       1,500
 
      (2)   Supplemental standards. The following supplemental standards shall
apply within the Low Density Residential District (R-2 and R-3).
         (a)   No building shall exceed 30 feet in height, nor more than two
stories in height.
         (b)   Any building with a height in excess of one and one-half stories
or 20 feet shall have a basement unless that building’s use is designed for 100
or more people.
         (c)   Applicable standards shall be met in corresponding provisions of
this chapter.
         (d)   Any building designed for the use of 50 or more people must be
compliant with FEMA P-361 "Safe Rooms for Tornados and Hurricanes, Guidance for
Community and Residential Safe Rooms", Third Edition or later. As an
alternative, buildings designed for the use of 50 or more people can have a
basement suitable for use as a tornado safe area.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 98-159, passed 11-16-1998; Res. 2001-028,
passed 8-20-2001; Ord. 2019-046, passed 9-3-2019)
Cross-reference:
   Accessory uses and structures, see §
153.200
   Ground satellite stations, see §
153.198
   Home occupations, see §
153.197
   Signs, see §§
153.250 through
153.261
   Swimming pools, see §
153.190
   Yard and frontage modifications, see §§
153.215 through
153.218
   Yard projections; fences, see §
153.216
§ 153.167 MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-4 AND R-5).
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The R-4 District is established as a medium density, detached,
single-family residential district and shall be serviced by public water and
sanitary sewer systems. The R-4 District provides for a residential character
that is a slight increase in density over the Low Density Residential District,
paralleling traditional development characteristics in the village’s older
neighborhoods.
      (2)   The R-5 District is established as an in-fill residential district
that provides standards and requirements for in-fill housing opportunities
within the village’s older neighborhoods. Single-family, detached dwellings are
permitted and shall be serviced by public water and sanitary sewer systems.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Land and buildings in the Medium Density Residential
District (R-4 and R-5) shall be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Single-family detached dwellings;
      (2)   Accessory buildings and uses in association with a permitted
dwelling;
      (3)   Home occupations in accordance with §
153.197; and
      (4)   Private kennels.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be allowed in the Medium
Density Residential District (R-4 and R-5) subject to approval in accordance
with §
153.042:
      (1)   Churches and other similar places of worship and parish houses,
provided there are at least 100 seats or similar accommodations in the main
assembly hall;
      (2)   Public uses: parks, playgrounds, recreation and community center
buildings and grounds, golf courses, public swimming pools, tennis courts, and
similar recreational uses, provided that any
principal building or swimming pool used therefor shall be located not less
than 150 feet from any other lot in any residential district;
      (3)   Public and private schools;
      (4)   Home occupations associated with a principal use and in accordance
with §
153.197;
      (5)   Accessory structures used as private kennels; and
      (6)   Employee/client parking for commercial, office, or industrial
establishments.
   (D)   Development standards.
      (1)   Lot and building requirements. The following lot and building
requirements are minimum standards, except where noted, and shall apply in the
Medium Density Residential District (R-4 and R-5):
         (a)   Lot area:
            1.   R-4: 10,000 square feet; and
            2.   R-5: 8,750 square feet.
         (b)   Lot coverage (maximum): 30%.
         (c)   Lot width:
            1.   R-4: 70 feet of frontage on an improved public right-of-way;
and
            2.   R-5: 60 feet of frontage on an improved public right-of-way.
         (d)   Lot width on a curving street or cul-de-sac:
            1.   R-4: 45 feet of frontage on an improved public right-of-way
and lot width shall be 70 feet at the minimum building line; and
            2.   R-5: 40 feet of frontage on an improved public right-of-way
and lot width shall be 60 feet at the minimum building line.
         (e)   Front yard setback:
            1.   R-4: 30 feet as measured between the street right-of-way line
and the building setback line; and
            2.   R-5: 30 feet as measured between the street right-of-way and
the building setback line.
         (f)   Side yard setback:
            1.   R-4: total side yard of 20 with a minimum of eight feet on any
one side;
            2.   R-5: total side yard of 20 with a minimum of eight feet on any
one side; and
            3.   Conditional use (R-4 and R-5) a minimum side yard of 20 feet.
         (g)   Rear yard setback:
            1.   R-4: 30 feet as measured from the rear property line;
            2.   R-5: 30 feet as measured from the rear property line; and
            3.   Accessory building (R-4 and R-5) may be located in the rear
yard no less than eight feet from the rear property line.
         (h)   Dwelling dimensions: the following dwelling dimensions measured
in terms of square footage shall apply to all residential dwellings:
Dwelling Ground Floor Area (Sq. Ft.) Finished Floor Area (Sq. Ft.)
Dwelling    Ground Floor Area (Sq. Ft.) Finished Floor Area (Sq. Ft.)
R-4
2 story     950                         1,800
1-1/2 story 1,150                       1,600
1 story     1,400                       1,400
Split level 1,400                       1,400
R-5
2 story     850                         1,700
1-1/2 story 1,050                       1,500
1 story     1,300                       1,300
Split level 1,300                       1,300
 
      (2)   Supplemental standards. The following supplemental standards shall
apply within the Medium Density Residential District (R-4 and R-5):
         (a)   No building shall exceed 30 feet in height, nor more than two
and one-half stories in height;
         (b)   Any building with a height in excess of one and one-half stories
or 20 feet shall have a basement unless that building’s use is designed for 100
or more people;
         (c)   Applicable standards shall be met in corresponding provisions of
this chapter; and
         (d)   Any building designed for the use of 50 or more people must be
compliant with FEMA P-361 "Safe Rooms for Tornados and Hurricanes, Guidance for
Community and Residential Safe Rooms", Third Edition or later. As an
alternative, buildings designed for the use of 50 or more people can have a
basement suitable for use as a tornado safe area.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 98-159, passed 11-16-1998; Ord. 2019-046,
passed 9-3-2019)
Cross-reference:
   Accessory uses and structures, see §
153.200
   Ground satellite stations, see §
153.198
   Home occupations, see §
153.197
   Signs, see §§
153.250 through
153.261
   Swimming pools, see §
153.190
   Yard and frontage modifications, see §§
153.215 through
153.218
   Yard projections; fences, see §
153.216
§ 153.168 TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-6).
   (A)   Purpose. The Two-Family Residential District (R-6) is established as a
medium density, attached two-family residential district that provides housing
opportunities in a unique, attractive, and affordable physical arrangement.
Two-family units shall be serviced by public water and sanitary sewer systems.
The R-6 District is appropriate as a transition between lower density single-
family districts and higher density multi-family districts.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Land and buildings in the Two-Family Residential
District (R-6) shall be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Two-family dwellings;
      (2)   Accessory buildings and uses in association with a permitted
dwelling;
      (3)   Home occupation in accordance with §
153.197; and
      (4)   Private kennels.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be allowed in the Two-Family
Residential District (R-6) subject to approval in accordance with §
153.042:
      (1)   Churches and other similar places of worship and parish houses,
provided there are at least 100 seats or similar accommodations in the main
assembly hall;
      (2)   Public uses: parks, playgrounds, recreation and community center
buildings and grounds, golf courses, public swimming pools, tennis courts, and
similar recreational uses, provided that any principal building or swimming
pool used therefor shall be located not less than 150 feet from any other lot
in any residential district;
      (3)   Public and private schools;
      (4)   Home occupations associated with a principal use and in accordance
with §
153.197; and
      (5)   Accessory structures used as private kennels.
   (D)   Development standards.
      (1)   Lot and building requirements. The following lot and building
requirements are minimum standards, except where noted, and shall apply in the
Two-Family Residential District (R-6):
         (a)   Lot area: 8,000 square feet;
         (b)   Lot coverage (maximum): 30%;
         (c)   Lot width: 70 feet of frontage on an improved public right-of-
way;
         (d)   Lot width on a curving street or cul-de-sac: 45 feet of frontage
on an improved public right-of-way an lot width shall be 70 feet at the minimum
building line;
         (e)   Front yard setback: 30 feet as measured between the street
right-of-way line and the building setback line;
         (f)   Side yard setback: total side yard of 20 feet with a minimum of
eight feet on any one side; for a conditional use, the side yard setback shall
be 20 feet;
         (g)   Rear yard setback: 30 feet as measured from the rear property
line; an accessory building may be located in the rear yard no less than eight
feet from the rear property line; and
         (h)   Dwelling dimensions: the following dwelling dimensions measured
in terms of square footage shall apply to all residential dwellings in the R-
6 District:
 
Dwelling                Ground Floor Area (Sq. Ft.) Finished Floor Area (Sq.
                                                    Ft.)
One bedroom             850                         850
Two bedroom             850                         850
Three bedroom           975                         975
Each additional bedroom 225                         225
 
      (2)   Supplemental standards. The following supplemental standards shall
apply within the Two- Family Residential District (R-6).
         (a)   No building shall exceed 30 feet in height, nor more than two
and one-half stories in height.
         (b)   Any building with a height in excess of one and one-half stories
or 20 feet shall have a basement unless that building’s use is designed for 100
or more people.
         (c)   Applicable standards shall be met in corresponding provisions of
this chapter.
         (d)   Any building designed for the use of 50 or more people must be
compliant with FEMA P-361 "Safe Rooms for Tornados and Hurricanes, Guidance for
Community and Residential Safe Rooms", Third Edition or later. As an
alternative, buildings designed for the use of 50 or more people can have a
basement suitable for use as a tornado safe area.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 98-159, passed 11-16-1998; Ord. 2019-046,
passed 9-3-2019)
Cross-reference:
   Accessory uses and structures, see §
153.200
   Ground satellite stations, see §
153.198
   Home occupations, see §
153.197
   Signs, see §§
153.250 through
153.261
   Yard and frontage modifications, see §§
153.215 through
153.218
   Yard projections; fences, see §
153.216
§ 153.169 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (AR-1).
   (A)   Purpose. The Multi-Family Residential District (AR-1) is established
as a medium density multi- family district intended to allow renter- and owner-
occupied properties in an apartment or condominium configuration at suitable
locations with on-site amenities, such as recreational facilities and off-
street parking. Such uses shall be serviced by public water and sanitary sewer
systems.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Land and buildings in the Multi-Family Residential
District (AR-1) shall be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Multiple-unit residential structures shall not exceed 12 units per
building; and
      (2)   Accessory buildings and uses in association with a permitted
multiple-unit residential structure, such as recreational facilities.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be allowed in the Multi-
Family Residential District (AR-1) subject to approval in accordance with §
153.042:
      (1)   Churches and other similar places of worship and parish houses,
provided there are at least 100 seats or similar accommodations in the main
assembly hall;
      (2)   Public uses: parks, playgrounds, recreation and community center
buildings and grounds, golf courses, public swimming pools, tennis courts; and
similar recreational uses, provided that any principal building or swimming
pool used therefor shall be located not less than 150 feet from any other lot
in any residential district;
      (3)   Public and private schools; and
      (4)   Accessory structures used as private kennels.
   (D)   Development standards.
      (1)   Lot and building requirements. The following lot and building
requirements are minimum standards, except where noted, and shall apply in the
Multi-Family Residential District (AR-1):
         (a)   Lot area: 15,000 square feet; 3,500 square feet per dwelling
unit;
         (b)   Lot coverage (maximum): 35%;
         (c)   Lot width: 80 feet of frontage on an improved public right-of-
way;
         (d)   Lot width on a curving street or cul-de-sac: 45 feet of frontage
on an improved public right-of-way and lot width shall be 80 feet at the
minimum building line;
         (e)   Front yard setback: 25 feet as measured between the street
right-of-way line and the building setback line;
         (f)   Side yard setback: ten feet; for a conditional use, the side
yard setback shall be 15 feet;
         (g)   Rear yard setback: 25 feet as measured from the rear property
line; an accessory building may be located in the rear yard no less than eight
feet from the rear property line; and
         (h)   Dwelling dimensions: the following dwelling dimensions measured
in terms of square footage shall apply to all residential dwellings in the AR-
1 District:
 
Dwelling Type           Ground Floor Area (Sq. Ft.) Finished Floor Area (Sq.
                                                    Ft.)
One bedroom             700                         700
Two bedroom             850                         850
Three bedroom           975                         975
Each additional bedroom 225                         225
 
      (2)   Supplemental standards. The following supplemental standards shall
apply within the Multi- Family Residential District (AR-1):
         (a)   No building shall exceed 30 feet in height, nor more than two
and one-half stories in height;
         (b)   Applicable standards shall be met in corresponding provisions of
this chapter;
         (c)   Two or more multiple-unit structures located on the same lot
shall locate no closer than 20 feet to each structure;
         (d)   One covered parking space may be provided per dwelling unit in
clusters not to exceed six spaces;
         (e)   Any building with a height in excess of one and one-half stories
or 20 feet shall have a basement unless that building’s use is designed for 100
or more people; and
         (f)   Any building designed for the use of 50 or more people must be
compliant with FEMA P-361 "Safe Rooms for Tornados and Hurricanes, Guidance for
Community and Residential Safe Rooms", Third Edition or later. As an
alternative, buildings designed for the use of 50 or more people can have a
basement suitable for use as a tornado safe area.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 98-159, passed 11-16-1998; Ord. 2019-046,
passed 9-3-2019)
Cross-reference:
   Accessory uses and structures, see §
153.200
   Ground satellite stations, see §
153.198
   Home occupations, see §
153.197
   Landscaping, see §§
153.275 through
153.281
   Off-street parking and loading, see §§
153.230 through
153.237
   Signs, see §§
153.250 through
153.261
   Yard and frontage modifications, see §§
153.215 through
153.218
   Yard projections; fences, see §
153.216
§ 153.170 NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (NC).
   (A)   Purpose. The Neighborhood Commercial District (NC) is intended to
encourage the clustering of small individual retail and personal service
establishments to promote convenience in serving the daily staple needs of the
surrounding residential areas.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Land and buildings in the Neighborhood Commercial
District (NC) shall be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Retail stores. Retail stores primarily engaged in selling
merchandise for personal or household consumption and rendering services
incidental to the sale of the goods (including the buying or processing of
goods for resale) including:
         (a)   Hardware stores;
         (b)   Grocery stores;
         (c)   Meat and fish (seafood) markets;
         (d)   Fruit stores and vegetable markets;
         (e)   Candy, nut, and confectionery stores;
         (f)   Dairy products stores;
         (g)   Retail bakeries;
         (h)   Drug stores and proprietary stores; and
         (i)   Florists.
      (2)   Personal services. Personal services generally involving the care
of the person or his or her personal effects including:
         (a)   Beauty shops;
         (b)   Barber shops;
         (c)   Shoe repair shops; and
         (d)   Pressing, dry-cleaning, alteration, and garment and repair.
      (3)   Business and professional offices. Business offices carrying on no
retail trade with the general public and having no stock of goods maintained
for sale to customers and professional offices engaged in providing tangible
and intangible services to the general public, involving both persons and their
possessions including:
         (a)   Commercial and stock savings banks;
         (b)   Credit agencies other than banks;
         (c)   Personal credit institutions;
         (d)   Insurance agents, brokers, and service;
         (e)   (Real estate) agents, brokers, and managers;
         (f)   Combinations of real estate, insurance, loan, and law offices;
         (g)   Offices of physicians and surgeons;
         (h)   Offices of dentists and dental surgeons;
         (i)   Offices of osteopathic physicians;
         (j)   Offices of chiropractors; and
         (k)   Legal services.
      (4)   Child care. Children’s nurseries and day care centers.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be allowed in the
Neighborhood Commercial District (NC) subject to approval in accordance with §
153.042:
      (1)   Automotive service stations. Gasoline service stations, provided no
portion of a structure or its appurtenances, including ancillary, associated,
or auxiliary equipment shall be located in front of the established building
line;
      (2)   Drive-in facility. Drive-in or outdoor service facility developed
in association with and subordinate to a permitted use; and
      (3)   Significant developments. Any proposed structure in the
Neighborhood Commercial District (NC) that contains at least 50,000 square feet
of gross floor area shall be considered a significant development and may be
allowed subject to approval in accordance with §
153.042.
   (D)   Development standards.
      (1)   Lot and building requirements. The following lot and building
requirements are minimum standards, except where noted, and shall apply in the
Neighborhood Commercial District (NC):
         (a)   Lot area: no minimum lot area is required; however, all lots
shall abut an improved public right-of-way and lot area shall be adequate to
provide the required yard space;
         (b)   Lot coverage (maximum): no maximum lot coverage is required;
however, the lot coverage shall be adequate to provide the yard space required;
         (c)   Lot width: no minimum lot width is required; however, all lots
shall abut an improved public right-of-way and have adequate width to provide
the required yard space and meet minimum access requirements;
         (d)   Front yard setback: the minimum front yard setback shall be the
average of the existing adjacent commercial structures on the same side of the
street and facing thereon within the same block. Where there are no adjacent
commercial structures, the building line shall not be less than 50 feet
measured from the street right-of-way;
         (e)   Side yard setback: for main and accessory structures, including
open service and loading areas, the required side yard shall be not less than
20 feet, unless adjacent to any residential zoning district, Planned
Residential District, and Planned Unit District whereby the side yard shall be
no less than 50 feet; and
         (f)   Rear yard setback: for main and accessory structures, the
required rear yard shall be not less than 25 feet, unless adjacent to any
residential zoning district, Planned Residential District, and Planned Unit
District whereby the side yard shall be no less than 50 feet.
      (2)   Supplemental standards. The following supplemental standards shall
apply within the Neighborhood Commercial District (NC).
         (a)   No building shall exceed 30 feet in height, nor more than two
stories in height.
         (b)   Applicable standards shall be met in corresponding provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
Cross-reference:
   Ground satellite stations, see §
153.198
   Landscaping, see §§
153.275 through
153.281
   Off-street parking and loading, see §§
153.230 through
153.237
   Signs, see §§
153.250 through
153.261
§ 153.171 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (GC).
   (A)   Purpose. The General Commercial District (GC) is intended to encourage
the concentration of a broad range of individual commercial establishments
which together may constitute a cluster of general commercial activity that
serves a substantial portion of the village’s residential population.
Concentrated general commercial developments should be ideally located near
major circulation routes and accessible to the population served.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Land and buildings in the General Commercial District
(GC) shall be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Retail stores. Retail stores primarily engaged in selling
merchandise for personal or household consumption and rendering services
incidental to the sale of the goods (including the buying or processing of
goods for resale) including:
         (a)   General merchandise: hardware stores, department stores, mail
order houses, limited price variety stores, and miscellaneous general
merchandise stores;
         (b)   Food: grocery stores, meat and fish (seafood) markets, fruit
stores and vegetable markets, candy, nut, and confectionery stores, dairy
products stores, retail bakeries, and miscellaneous food stores;
         (c)   Building materials, retail: lumber and other building materials,
heating and plumbing equipment, electrical supply equipment, and hardware and
farm equipment;
         (d)   Apparel: clothing, accessories and personal furnishing stores,
shoe stores, custom tailors, furriers and fur shops, and miscellaneous apparel
and accessory stores;
         (e)   Home furnishings: furniture, home furnishings, and equipment
stores, household appliance stores, and radio, television, and music stores;
         (f)   Eating and drinking places;
         (g)   Miscellaneous retail: drug stores and proprietary stores, liquor
stores, antique stores and secondhand stores, stationery stores, sporting goods
stores and bicycle shops, jewelry stores, florists, cigar stores, news dealers,
camera and photographic supply stores, gift, novelty, and souvenir shops,
optical goods stores, and miscellaneous retail stores not elsewhere classified;
and
         (h)   Business services: advertising, duplicating, addressing,
blueprinting, photocopying, mailing, stenography, and business services not
elsewhere classified.
      (2)   Business and professional offices. Business offices engaged in
providing tangible and intangible services to the general public, involving
both persons and their possessions, including:
         (a)   Administrative, business, and professional offices:
administrative offices primarily engaged in general administration,
supervision, purchasing, accounting, and other management functions, and
professional offices engaged in providing tangible and intangible services to
the general public, involving both persons and possessions, including financial
services, real estate, and insurance; and
         (b)   Professional: offices of physicians and surgeons, dentists and
dental surgeons, Osteopathic physicians, chiropractors, medical and dental
laboratories, health and allied sciences not elsewhere classified, legal
services, design services including engineering, architecture, landscape
architecture, urban planning, graphic arts and interior design, and accounting,
auditing, and bookkeeping services.
      (3)   Personal and consumer services. Personal services generally
involving the care of the person or his or her personal effects and consumer
services generally involving the care and maintenance of tangible property or
the provision of intangible services for personal consumption, including:
         (a)   Personal: photographic studios, including commercial
photography, beauty shops, barber shops, laundromats, funeral services, shoe
repair shops, pressing, alteration and garment repair, and miscellaneous
personal service; and
         (b)   Repair services: electrical repair shops, watch, clock, and
jewelry repair, re-upholstery and furniture repair, and similar household item
repair shops and related services.
      (4)   Sexually oriented businesses. Permitted use by sexually oriented
businesses in this district shall comply with the following requirements.
         (a)   Sexually oriented businesses, as defined by §
153.012 of this chapter, provided the proposed location of such use is more
than 1,000 feet from all the following uses:
            l.   Any residential zoning district, zoning overlay district where
residential use is permitted, or residential use as established by the Zoning
Code of the village or the Zoning Code of any adjacent political subdivision;
            2.   Any church, synagogue, permanently established place of
worship, school, library, or public playground attended by persons under the
age of 18;
            3.   Any other recreational facility or amusement park attended by
persons under 18 years of age;
            4.   Any hotel, motel, or bed and breakfast lodging establishment;
            5.   Any other sexually oriented business;
            6.   Any establishments licensed by the state for the sale of beer
or intoxicating liquor for consumption on the premises;
            7.   Pawn shops;
            8.   Pool or billiard halls;
            9.   Video game or pinball palaces, halls, or arcades; and
            10.   Any designated historic district.
         (b)   The measure of distance for purposes of this division (B)(4)
shall be from property line to property line along the shortest possible
course, regardless of any customary or common route or path of travel.
         (c)   Approval of sexually oriented business: the Enforcement Officer
shall consider only whether the sexually oriented business is seeking to locate
in a General Commercial District (GC), and whether the proposed location of the
sexually oriented business is at least 1,000 feet from the uses listed in
division (B)(4)(a) of this section. The determination shall be made without a
public hearing being held and must be made within ten days of the effective
date of this chapter or within ten days of the receipt of a completed
application for a zoning permit, whichever is less. An applicant or an
aggrieved party may appeal a decision of the Enforcement Officer or Planning
Commission to the Board of Appeals. Pursuant to law, such appeal must be made
within 30 days of the claimed adverse decision. The Board of Appeals shall hear
and decide sexually oriented business appeals in accordance with §
153.043 of this chapter. Further appeal shall be to a court of competent
jurisdiction as provided by law.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be allowed in the General
Commercial District (GC) subject to approval in accordance with §
153.042:
      (1)   Automotive service stations. Gasoline service stations, provided no
portion of a structure or its appurtenances, including ancillary, associated,
or auxiliary equipment, shall be located in front of the established building
line;
      (2)   Drive-in facility or open display. Drive-in or outdoor service, or
open display facility, developed in association with a principal permitted use;
      (3)   Residential. Living quarters as an integral part of and subordinate
to a principal permitted use;
      (4)   Automobile service stations, repair services, and garages. Gasoline
service stations, provided no portion of a structure or its appurtenances,
including ancillary, associated, or auxiliary equipment, shall be located in
front of the established building line;
      (5)   Recreation. Theaters, dance halls, dance studios, dance schools,
bowling, swimming pools, and skating rinks;
      (6)   Hotels and motels. Lodging facilities and subordinate eating and
drinking facilities and recreational facilities, provided that the minimum lot
area is two acres;
      (7)   Animal care. Offices of veterinarians and animal hospitals;
      (8)   Commercial kennel. Commercial kennels shall not be located within
200 feet of a residential zoning district, including PUD and PRD;
      (9)   Automobile parking. An automobile parking lot as a principal use;
      (10)   Significant developments. Any proposed structure in the General
Commercial District (GC) that contains at least 50,000 square foot of gross
floor area shall be considered a significant development and may be allowed
subject to approval in accordance with §
153.042; and
      (11)   Places of worship. Churches and other similar places of worship
and parish houses.
   (D)   Development standards.
      (1)   Lot and building requirements. The following lot and building
requirements are minimum standards, except where noted, and shall apply in the
General Commercial District (GC):
         (a)   Lot area: no minimum lot area is required, however, all lots
shall abut an improved public right-of-way and lot area shall be adequate to
provide the required yard space;
         (b)   Lot coverage (maximum): no maximum lot coverage is required;
however, the lot coverage shall be adequate to provide the yard space required;
         (c)   Lot width: no minimum lot width is required; however, all lots
shall abut an improved public right-of-way and have adequate width to provide
the required yard space and meet minimum access requirements;
         (d)   Front yard setback: the minimum front yard setback shall be the
average of the existing adjacent commercial structures on the same side of the
street and facing thereon within the same block. Where there are no adjacent
commercial structures, the building line shall not be less than 50 feet
measured from the street right-of-way;
         (e)   Side yard setback: for main and accessory structures, including
open service and loading areas, the required side yard shall be not less than
20 feet, unless adjacent to any residential zoning district, Planned
Residential District, and Planned Unit District whereby the side yard shall be
no less than 50 feet; and
         (f)   Rear yard setback: for main and accessory structures, the
required side yard shall be not less than 25 feet, unless adjacent to any
residential zoning district, Planned Residential District, and Planned Unit
District whereby the side yard shall be no less than 50 feet. A use to be
serviced from the rear shall have a service court, alleyway, or combination
thereof not less than 40 feet in width.
      (2)   Supplemental standards. The following supplemental standards shall
apply within the General Commercial District (GC):
         (a)   No building shall exceed 40 feet in height, nor more than three
stories in height; and
         (b)   Applicable standards shall be met in corresponding provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 2001-033, passed 10-1-2001; Ord. 2014-017,
passed 7-7-2014)
Cross-reference:
   Ground satellite stations, see §
153.198
   Landscaping, see §§
153.275 through
153.281
   Off-street parking and loading, see §§
153.230 through
153.237
   Signs, see §§
153.250 through
153.261
§ 153.172 SUBURBAN OFFICE AND INSTITUTION DISTRICT (SO).
   (A)   Purpose. The Suburban Office and Institution District (SO) is provided
in recognition of the need to locate office and institutional land uses where
adequate space can be made available in accordance with current development
trends and standards. The SO District is intended for offices and institutions
that may locate independently or in small clusters and that may desire
buildings or groups of buildings surrounded by landscaped open areas away from
the concentrations of people and traffic of retail, wholesale, and industrial
areas in the village. The space, location, and aesthetic characteristics of
these uses make a location near low density residential neighborhoods or rural
countryside desirable.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Land and buildings in the Suburban Office and
Institutional District (SO) shall be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Administrative and business offices. Administrative offices
primarily engaged in general administration, supervision, purchasing,
accounting, and other management functions and business offices carrying on no
retail trade with the general public and having no stock of goods maintained
for sale to customers, including financial services, real estate, and
insurance;
      (2)   Professional offices. Professional offices engaged in providing
tangible and intangible services to the general public, involving both persons
and their possessions, including: offices of physicians and surgeons, dentists
and dental surgeons, osteopathic physicians, and chiropractors, medical and
dental laboratories, health and allied services, legal services, design
services including engineering, architecture, landscape architecture, urban
planning, graphic arts and interior design, accounting, auditing, and
bookkeeping services, and professional services not elsewhere classified;
      (3)   Institution. Institutions providing social, cultural, educational,
and health services to member agencies, organizations, and individuals or to
the general public, including: hospitals, elementary and secondary schools,
colleges and universities, vocational schools, professional schools, libraries,
museums and art galleries, and religious organizations;
      (4)   Organizations and associations. Organizations and associations
organized on a profit- making or nonprofit-making basis, for the promotion of
membership interests, including: business associations, professional membership
organizations, labor unions and similar labor organizations, civic, social, and
fraternal associations, political organizations, charitable organizations, and
nonprofit membership organizations not elsewhere classified;
      (5)   Residential dwelling. Residential dwelling ancillary and
subordinate to a principal permitted use; and
      (6)   Churches. Churches and other similar places of worship and parish
houses, provided there are at least 100 seats or similar accommodations in the
main assembly hall.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be allowed in the Suburban
Office and Institutional District (SO) subject to approval in accordance with §
153.042:
      (1)   Drive-in facility. Drive-in or outdoor service facilities developed
in association with a principal permitted use;
      (2)   Personal services. Personal services generally involving the care
of the person or his or her apparel, including: photographic services and
commercial photography, beauty shops, barber shops, and funeral service and
crematories;
      (3)   Educational and research. Educational and research establishments
engaged in providing tangible and intangible services to members or the general
public, including: research, development, and testing laboratories, school and
educational services not elsewhere classified, and nonprofit educational and
scientific research agencies;
      (4)   Food and lodging. Food and lodging includes commercial
establishments and institutions engaged in furnishing lodging and meals on a
fee basis, including: eating and drinking places, and organizational hotels and
lodging houses on a membership basis;
      (5)   Animal care. Offices of veterinarian and animal hospitals;
      (6)   Child care. Children’s nurseries and day care centers; and
      (7)   Significant developments. Any proposed structure in the Suburban
Office and Institution District (SO) that contains at least 50,000 square feet
of gross floor area shall be considered a significant development and may be
allowed subject to approval in accordance with §
153.042.
   (D)   Development standards.
      (1)   Lot and building requirements. The following lot and building
requirements are minimum standards, except where noted, and shall apply in the
Suburban Office and Institutional District (SO):
         (a)   Lot area: no minimum lot area is required; however, all lots
shall abut an improved public right-of-way and lot area shall be adequate to
provide the required yard space;
         (b)   Lot coverage (maximum): no maximum lot coverage is required;
however, the lot coverage shall be adequate to provide the yard space required;
         (c)   Lot width: no minimum lot width is required; however, all lots
shall abut an improved public right-of-way and have adequate width to provide
the required yard space and meet minimum access requirements;
         (d)   Front yard setback: the minimum front yard setback shall be the
average of the existing adjacent commercial structures on the same side of the
street and facing thereon within the same block. Where there are no adjacent
commercial structures, the building line shall not be less than 50 feet
measured from the street right-of-way;
         (e)   Side yard setback: for main and accessory structures, including
open service and loading areas, the required side yard shall be not less than
20 feet, unless adjacent to any residential zoning district, Planned
Residential District, and Planned Unit District whereby the side yard shall be
no less than 50 feet; and
         (f)   Rear yard setback: for main and accessory structures the
required rear yard shall be not less than 20 feet, unless adjacent to any
residential zoning district, Planned Residential District, and Planned Unit
District whereby the rear yard shall be no less than 50 feet. A use to be
serviced from the rear shall have a service court, alley way, or combination
thereof not less than 40 feet in width.
      (2)   Supplemental standards. The following supplemental standards shall
apply within the Suburban Office and Institutional District (SO):
         (a)   No building shall exceed 40 feet in height, nor more than three
stories in height;
         (b)   Applicable standards shall be met in corresponding provisions of
this chapter;
         (c)   Any building with a height in excess of one and one-half stories
or 20 feet shall have a basement unless that building’s use is designed for 100
or more people; and
         (d)   Any building designed for the use of 50 or more people must be
compliant with FEMA P-361 "Safe Rooms for Tornados and Hurricanes, Guidance for
Community and Residential Safe Rooms", Third Edition or later. As an
alternative, buildings designed for the use of 50 or more people can have a
basement suitable for use as a tornado safe area.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 98-159, passed 11-16-1998; Ord. 2019-046,
passed 9-3-2019)
Cross-reference:
   Ground satellite stations, see §
153.198
   Landscaping, see §§
153.275 through
153.281
   Off-street parking and loading, see §§
153.230 through
153.237
   Signs, see §§
153.250 through
153.261
§ 153.173 LIMITED MANUFACTURING DISTRICT (LM).
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The Limited Manufacturing District (LM) is established for the
purpose of preserving areas of the village for industrial and related uses of
such a nature that they do not create serious problems of compatibility with
other kinds of land uses, and to make provision for certain kinds of commercial
uses which are most appropriately located ancillary to industrial users or
which are necessary to service the immediate needs of people in these areas.
      (2)   Uses under the LM District generally require a minimum of services
and facilities. Such uses typically operate within enclosed structures and have
little or no adverse effect on adjacent land by producing noise, odor, dust,
smoke, glare, or other hazards. The intent of the district is to encourage
industrial development that is architecturally sensitive, incorporating
landscaping, generous setbacks, and minimal signage.
      (3)   Performance standards are identified and required to be met by all
uses under the LM District to ensure that those uses are appropriate to the
village and that such development is a positive addition to the village without
creating undue negative environmental impacts.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Land and buildings in the Limited Manufacturing
District (LM) shall be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Manufacturing.
         (a)   Canning and preserving fruits, vegetables, and seafood;
         (b)   Bakery products; candy and other confectionery products;
         (c)   Men’s, youth and boys’ clothing, furnishings and allied
garments; women’s, misses’, children’s and infants clothing, furnishings and
allied garments; fur goods and miscellaneous apparel and accessories;
         (d)   Miscellaneous fabricated textile products; broad and narrow
woven fabric mills, including cotton, human-made fiber and silk, and dyeing and
finishing, floor covering mills, yarn and thread mills, and miscellaneous
textile goods;
         (e)   Publishing and printing of newspapers, magazines, books and
other publications, and commercial printing; manifold business forms, greeting
cards, bookbinding and related industries, and service industries for the
printing trade;
         (f)   Pharmaceuticals;
         (g)   Footwear, gloves and mittens, luggage, handbags and other
personal leather goods; boot and shoe cut stock and findings, and leather goods
not elsewhere classified;
         (h)   Glass products made of purchased glass;
         (i)   Communication equipment, electronic components and accessories,
engineering, laboratory, scientific and research instruments and associated
equipment, and instruments for measuring, controlling, and indicating physical
characteristics;
         (j)   Optical instruments and lenses, surgical, medical, and dental
instruments and supplies, and ophthalmic goods; photographic equipment and
supplies;
         (k)   Watches, clocks, clockwork operated devices and parts; jewelry,
silverware, and plated ware;
         (l)   Automobile accessories and electronic components;
         (m)   Sausages and other prepared meat products, dairy products, grain
mill products, and beverage industries;
         (n)   Household and office furniture, partitions, shelves, lockers and
office and store fixtures, miscellaneous furniture and fixtures;
         (o)   Nonferrous foundries, sheet metal work, and machine shops,
jobbing and repair;
         (p)   Household appliances, electrical lighting and wiring equipment,
and miscellaneous electrical machinery, equipment, and supplies;
         (q)   Musical instruments and parts, toys, amusements, sporting and
athletic goods; and
         (r)   Pens, pencils, and other office and artists’ materials, costume
jewelry, costume novelties, buttons and miscellaneous notions, except precious
metal.
      (2)   Wholesaling.
         (a)   Pharmaceuticals, chemicals, and allied products;
         (b)   Dry goods and apparel;
         (c)   Groceries and related products;
         (d)   Electrical goods;
         (e)   Hardware, plumbing and heating equipment and supplies;
         (f)   Machinery equipment and supplies;
         (g)   Tobacco and its products;
         (h)   Beer, wine, and distilled alcoholic beverages;
         (i)   Paper and its products; and
         (j)   Furniture and home furnishings.
      (3)   Wholesaling, warehousing, and transportation services.
         (a)   Trucking, local and long distance;
         (b)   Public warehousing and freight forwarding;
         (c)   Terminal and joint terminal maintenance facilities for motor
freight transportation and miscellaneous services incidental to transportation;
         (d)   Motor vehicles and automotive equipment;
         (e)   Pharmaceuticals, chemicals and allied products, dry goods,
apparel, groceries, and related products;
         (f)   Farm products and raw materials, electrical goods, hardware,
plumbing and heating equipment and supplies;
         (g)   Machinery, equipment, and supplies;
         (h)   Miscellaneous wholesalers except scrap and waste materials; and
         (i)   Mini-warehouses.
      (4)   Service industries.
         (a)   General construction contractors;
         (b)   Plumbing, heating, and air conditioning, painting, paperhanging
and decorating;
         (c)   Electrical work, masonry, stonework, tile setting, and
plastering, carpentering and wood flooring, roofing and sheet metal work,
concrete work, and water well drilling; and
         (d)   Miscellaneous special trade contractors.
      (5)   Commercial retail. Commercial retail uses associated with and
subordinate to another permitted use and limited to no more than 25% of the
total gross floor area of all structures on the subject lots.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be allowed in the Limited
Manufacturing District (LM) subject to approval in accordance with §
153.042:
      (1)   Laboratories. Research, development and testing laboratories;
      (2)   Other lawful industrial uses. Any other lawful industrial use
compatible with the permitted uses, fulfilling the intent of this district, and
developed in accordance with the development standards and performance
standards of this district;
      (3)   Commercial and office uses. Commercial and office establishments
normally associated with and intended to serve the industrial establishments or
their employees, including:
         (a)   Commercial and stock savings banks, savings and loan
associations, personal credit institutions, and business credit institutions;
         (b)   Offices of physicians and surgeons, dentists and dental
surgeons, and osteopathic physicians, and medical and allied services;
         (c)   Design services include engineering, architecture, landscape
architecture, urban planning, graphic arts, and interior design; and
         (d)   Accounting, auditing, and bookkeeping services.
      (4)   Administrative offices. Administrative offices primarily engaged in
general administrative supervision, purchasing, accounting and other management
functions;
      (5)   Personal and consumer services. Personal and consumer services
generally involving the care and maintenance of tangible property or the
provision of intangible services for personal consumption intended to serve the
industrial establishments of their employees, including:
         (a)   Personal: beauty shops, barber shops, shoe repair shops,
pressing, alteration, and garment repair, and miscellaneous personal services;
and
         (b)   Business: advertising, consumer credit reporting agencies,
mercantile reporting agencies, adjustment and collecting agencies, business
services including duplicating, addressing, blueprinting, photocopying,
mailing, mailing lists, and stenographic, private employment agencies, and
business services not elsewhere classified, except research, development, and
testing laboratories.
      (6)   Recycling centers. Not to include manufacturing; and
      (7)   Significant developments. Any proposed structure in the Limited
Manufacturing District (LM) that contains at least 50,000 square feet of gross
floor area shall be considered a significant development and may be allowed
only upon approval in accordance with §
153.042.
   (D)   Development standards.
      (1)   Lot and building requirements. The following lot and building
requirements are minimum standards, except where noted, and shall apply in the
Limited Manufacturing District (LM):
         (a)   Lot area: no minimum lot area is required; however, all lots
shall abut an improved public right-of-way and lot area shall be adequate to
provide the required yard space;
         (b)   Lot coverage (maximum): no maximum lot coverage is required;
however, the lot coverage shall be adequate to provide the yard space required;
         (c)   Lot width: no minimum lot width is required; however, all lots
shall abut an improved public right-of-way and have adequate width to provide
the required yard space and meet minimum access requirements;
         (d)   Front yard setback: the minimum front yard setback shall be the
average of the existing adjacent industrial structures on the same side of the
street and facing thereon within the same block. Where there are no adjacent
industrial structures, the building line shall not be less than 50 feet
measured from the street right-of-way;
         (e)   Side yard setback: for main and accessory structures, including
open service and loading areas, the required side yards shall not be less than
20 feet, unless adjacent to any residential zoning district, Planned
Residential District, and Planned Unit District whereby the side yard shall be
no less than 50 feet; and
         (f)   Rear yard setback: for main and accessory structures the
required rear yard shall be not less than 20 feet, unless adjacent to any
residential zoning district, Planned Residential District, and Planned Unit
District whereby the rear yard shall be no less than 50 feet.
      (2)   Supplemental standards. The following supplemental standards shall
apply within the Limited Manufacturing District (LM):
         (a)   No building shall exceed 40 feet in height, nor more than three
stories in height; and
         (b)   Applicable standards shall be met in corresponding provisions of
this chapter.
   (E)   Performance standards. No land or building in the Limited
Manufacturing District (LM) shall be used or occupied in any manner in
violation of §
153.192. The cost of any testing necessary, as determined by the village, for
determining whether a violation of such regulations exists or has occurred or
may occur in the future shall be paid by the violator to the village.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
Cross-reference:
   Ground satellite stations, see §
153.198
   Landscaping, see §§
153.275 through
153.281
   Off-street parking and loading, see §§
153.230 through
153.237
   Open storage and display of material, see §
153.191
   Public nuisance regulations, see §
153.192
   Signs, see §§
153.250 through
153.261
§ 153.174 PLANNED DISTRICTS (PRD, PCD, PID, PUD).
   (A)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   Planned districts shall include residential, commercial,
industrial, and mixed-use subdistricts: Planned Residential District (PRD),
Planned Commercial District (PCD), Planned Industrial District (PID), and
Planned Unit District (PUD).
      (2)   It is the intent of the Planned Districts to promote the
progressive development of land and construction thereon and to encourage
imaginative architectural design and layout, flexibility in building styles and
types, and sensitivity to the natural environment.
      (3)   The planned districts are designed to guide development in an
orderly, coordinated, and comprehensive manner that preserves natural quality
and beauty and provides supporting community facilities in the development of
diverse, sound urban environments consistent with accepted land planning,
landscape architecture practices, and engineering principals. Such developments
should:
         (a)   Provide a more useful pattern of open space and recreation
areas;
         (b)   Preserve and utilize natural topography and geologic features,
scenic vistas, trees, and other vegetation, while preventing disruption of
normal drainage patterns;
         (c)   Provide a more efficient pattern of development that reduces
investments in utility lines, streets, and similar infrastructure; and
         (d)   Promote a development pattern in harmony with the village’s land
use objectives and priorities.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Land and buildings in the planned districts (PRD, PCD,
PID, and PUD) shall be used only for the following purposes as indicated under
each specific subdistrict:
      (1)   Planned Residential District (PRD).
         (a)   Residential dwellings: single-family, two-family, and multi-
family dwellings and accessory uses and buildings in association with a
permitted dwelling;
         (b)   Churches and other similar places of worship and parish houses,
provided the use occupies a lot of not less than three acres and there is one
acre or more per 100 seats or similar accommodations in the main assembly hall;
         (c)   Public uses: parks, playgrounds, recreation and community center
buildings and grounds, golf courses, public swimming pools, tennis courts, and
similar recreational uses;
         (d)   Home occupations in accordance with §
153.197; and
         (e)   Private kennels.
      (2)   Planned Commercial District (PCD). Uses permitted under the
Neighborhood Commercial District (NC), General Commercial District (GC), and
Suburban Office District (SO);
      (3)   Planned Industrial District (PID). Uses permitted under the Limited
Manufacturing District (LM); and
      (4)   Planned Unit District (PUD).
         (a)   Uses permitted under the Planned Residential District (PRD); and
         (b)   Uses permitted under the Planned Commercial District (PCD) but
limited to no more than 30% of the net developable site.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be allowed in the planned
districts (PRD, PCD, PID, and PUD) subject to approval in accordance with §
153.042 and as indicated under each specific subdistrict:
      (1)   Planned Residential District (PRD) and Planned Unit (PUD) District.
Accessory structures used as private kennels; and
 
      (2)   Planned Industrial District (PID). Permitted uses under the General
Commercial District (GC) and Suburban Office and Institutional District (SO)
limited to 25% of the net developable site.
   (D)   Development standards.
      (1)   Minimum lot requirements. The minimum lot requirements of a parcel
that can be zoned under the planned districts (PRD, PCD, PID, and PUD) is the
following:
 
Development Standard           District
                               PRD PCD  PID PUD
Coverage                       NA  45%  50% NA
Maximum building height (feet) 35  40   40  40
Minimum frontage (feet)        250 250  400 600
Minimum lot area (acres)       5   none 10  20
Minimum lot width (feet)       350 350  500 750
 
         (a)   For each use the lot and building requirements of the
appropriate district other than the planned district shall apply unless
superseded in this chapter.
         (b)   Parking areas shall be no closer to the main structures than ten
feet.
         (c)   1.   Under PRD and PUD, individual home sites, or clusters
thereof, must be designated under one of the village’s zoning districts. If the
Planning Commission determines that the proposed development complies with the
intent of this chapter, it may waive the development standards of the
corresponding zoning district in which the development is located. However, the
requirement that property may be used only for the permitted uses in that
zoning district may not be waived. In determining whether a deviation is
justified, the Planning Commission shall determine the following:
               a.   Does the proposed plan provide a more useful pattern of
open space and recreation area?
               b.   Does the proposed plan preserve and utilize natural
topography and geologic features, scenic vistas, trees, and other vegetation
while preventing disruption of normal drainage patterns?
               c.   Does the plan provide a more efficient pattern of
development that reduces investments in utility lines, streets, and similar
infrastructure which would be maintained by the village?
               d.   Does the proposed plan promote a development pattern in
harmony with the village’s land use objectives and priorities? In making this
determination, the Planning Commission may seek input from the Village of
Corwin, Wayne Township, and Wayne Local Schools.
            2.   The project area of a planned unit development includes all of
the land within the planned unit residential and commercial district excluding
public rights-of-way. The Planning Commission shall determine the number of
dwelling units which may be constructed within the district by dividing the
project by either of the following:
               a.   The required lot area per dwelling taking into account the
entire proposed zoning district of the area that is the subject of the planned
unit development;
               b.   The required lot area per dwelling unit assuming the entire
proposed area is zoned R-l, as modified by an increase in density up to 15%
assuming that the developer has met the following goals:
                  I.   Public open space, be it undeveloped or improved, above
the minimum amount required;
                  ii.   Distinctions and excellence in site design and
landscaping; and
                  iii.   A significant improvement to the infrastructure which
benefits the Village of Waynesville, Wayne Township, or Wayne Local Schools.
               c.   Whenever there is a request to increase density, the
Planning Commission may examine the following:
                  I.   Traffic congestion in the streets which adjoin the
planned residential development; and
                  ii.   An excessive burden on parks, recreational areas,
schools, and other public facilities which serve or are proposed to serve the
planned residential development.
               d.   If the Planning Commission finds an adverse effect, it may
prohibit an increase in density or limit the increase in density to avoid the
creation of adverse impact on schools, parks, and other public facilities.
         (d)   Under PRD and PUD, adjacent single-family and two-family homes
shall not have identical facades relative to style and color, and all
residential building front yard setbacks shall meet the applicable district
requirement and be staggered.
      (2)   Site development standards. The following site development
standards shall apply in the Planned Districts (PRD, PCD, PID, and PUD):
         (a)   The applicable sections of the subdivision regulations (see
Chapter 152 of these codified ordinances) and the off-street parking, sign, and
landscaping regulations of this Zoning Code shall apply;
         (b)   The traffic and parking system shall meet the requirements
relative to access as indicated in §§
153.230 through
153.237. Access points shall be kept to a minimum to reduce traffic congestion
and mitigate potential conflict points. Vehicular and pedestrian conflict
points shall also be minimized;
         (c)   Under PCD and PUD, where applicable, the parking system shall be
so designed as to discourage single large unbroken paved lots for off-street
parking and shall encourage smaller defined parking areas within the total
parking system. Such defined parking areas should be delineated and accented by
landscaped areas. Parking aisles, whenever possible, shall be oriented
perpendicular to the building fronts;
         (d)   The maximum PRD and PUD density shall be five dwelling units per
acre based upon the number of units proposed divided by the net developable
site (including open space);
         (e)   Under PRD and PUD, a minimum of 20% of the net site (gross site
minus publicly dedicated streets and alleys) shall be set aside as public open
space. Such open space shall be used for such public purposes as a natural
area, recreational area, or the site of a community or school facility;
         (f)   Under PCD and PUD, where applicable, all service and delivery
shall be made to the rear of the structure or use unless special design
treatment or circumstances warrant an alternative, but only with the approval
of the Planning Commission. Landscaping and screening requirements of §§
153.275 through
153.281 shall apply;
         (g)   Under PRD and PUD, the location and arrangement of areas of
various density shall be so designed as to balance higher density areas
adjacent to open space. Residential densities within PRD and PUD shall equal to
or be less than the residential density in adjacent and abutting residential
zoning districts;
         (h)   Under PRD and PUD, private roads as a common easement may be
used to provide access to clustered lots and/or structures serving residential
uses in accordance with the following:
            1.   The easement shall not be counted as required open space;
            2.   The easement does not serve an area larger than two acres,
except that such area will contain six dwellings or less; and
            3.   Approved as a part of the subdivision plat as the most
appropriate form of access to the lots and/or structures.
         (i)   Under PRD and PUD, off-street parking shall be provided in
accordance with §§
153.230 through
153.237, except residential parking may be provided in group garages or parking
lots within 150 feet of the dwellings served;
         (j)   Under PCD, PID, and PUD, where appropriate, whenever multiple
structures are to be located on the site and the site abuts a collector or
arterial street, access onto the collector or arterial shall be via interior
local streets or marginal access (frontage) roads. All uses within the PCD,
PID, and PUD shall derive their access from the interior streets in the
district, unless specific exemptions are made as a part of the approved
development plan;
         (k)   Drainage and runoff from the proposed development shall not
cause property damage. All drainage improvements shall be designed in
conformance with the requirements of the village’s subdivision regulations (see
Chapter 152 of these codified ordinances) and shall be approved by the Village
Engineer prior to development plan approval;
         (l)   Details regarding sanitary sewage collection and disposal and
water supply techniques to be utilized shall be addressed in the development
plan, together with letters of approval from the pertinent local, state, and,
if applicable, private agencies, and approved by the Village Engineer prior to
development plan approval;
         (m)   Under PCD and PUD, no unscreened outside storage shall be
permitted and no rubbish or debris of any kind shall be placed or permitted to
accumulate on any portion of the parcel or lot so as to render any portion of
the property unsanitary, unsightly, or detrimental to the public health,
safety, or welfare;
         (n)   All utilities shall be placed underground; and
         (o)   Public nuisance regulations under §
153.192 shall apply.
   (E)   Application procedure.
      (1)   Application to be made. Written application and submittal of a
development plan for a planned district shall be made by property owners,
lessees, persons having an interest in the property, or duly authorized agents
of owners, lessees, or persons having an interest in the property, to the
Planning Commission.
      (2)   Application fee. A fee as stipulated in §
153.045 shall be paid by the applicant to cover the costs of advertising,
review, publishing, and reporting of the application, payable to the General
Fund.
      (3)   Application contents. The application, on a form to be provided,
for a planned district shall contain as a minimum:
         (a)   Name, address, and phone number of the applicants and
representatives, if any, and the signature of the property owners;
         (b)   A current and accurate legal description of the properties in
question and a current survey prepared by a licensed surveyor;
         (c)   The proposed zoning district, the proposed uses, the present
uses, and the present zoning district of the properties;
         (d)   A list of all property owners within, contiguous to, and
directly across the street from the properties in question. The list of
addresses shall correspond to the County Auditor’s current tax list;
         (e)   A statement of the relationship of proposed change or amendment
to the general welfare of the community, to appropriate plans for the area, and
to the changed or changing conditions behind the request to rezone;
         (f)   Applicant shall show evidence of sufficient control over the
land to effectuate the development plan such as property rights, economic
resources, and engineering feasibility as may be necessary; and
         (g)   Evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the land
to effectuate the proposed development.
      (4)   Concept plan. A concept plan drawn to scale shall be prepared by a
registered architect, registered engineer, and/or a registered landscape
architect. Such concept plan shall be in map form with accompanying text and
shall contain the following information as a minimum:
         (a)   Selected uses in accordance with divisions (B) and (C) of this
section by area or specific building location, allocation of land use by type
as measured in acres, adjacent existing land use, right-of-way, and
relationship to adjacent land use;
         (b)   General location of thoroughfares, including type, as well as
location and size measured in number of parking spaces for all off-street
parking areas, including curb cuts;
         (c)   Open space and the intended uses therein and acreage provided;
         (d)   Residential land uses shall be summarized by lot size, dwelling
type, and density;
         (e)   Topographical contours with two-foot intervals;
         (f)   Existing roads, buildings and permanent facilities, easements,
right-of-way and abutting property boundaries, and existing and proposed
utilities;
         (g)   Jurisdictional boundaries;
         (h)   Physical features and natural conditions of the site including
the location of vegetation meeting the size requirements of §§
153.275 through
153.281 and existing tree lines; and
         (i)   Surface drainage and areas subject to flooding.
      (5)   Development plan. A development plan drawn to scale shall be
prepared by a registered architect, registered engineer, and/or a registered
landscape architect. Such development plan shall be in map form with
accompanying text and shall contain the following information as a minimum:
         (a)   Selected uses in accordance with divisions (B) and (C) of this
section shall be specified by area or specific building location, and an
explanation regarding specific compatibility of each proposed use with the
immediate area shall be attached;
         (b)   A survey map of the boundary of the area being requested for
zoning map amendment;
         (c)   A preliminary drainage plan, showing topographical contours in
two-foot intervals, and general locations of proposed improvements;
         (d)   Stands of existing vegetation meeting the size requirements of
§§
153.275 through
153.281 and existing tree lines;
         (e)   Soil types found on the subject tracts based upon the applicable
county soil survey;
         (f)   Existing roads, streets, and easements within the subject tract.
Off-site contour and easement locations shall be provided where necessary to
determine special off-site circumstances as they relate to the development or
off-site features affected by the development;
         (g)   Names and firms of professionals that prepared the development
plan;
         (h)   Proposed features, including as a minimum:
            1.   Information that the development concept conforms to all
applicable standards of the planned district;
            2.   Proposed location and approximate size of all structures and
ancillary uses, except for single-family residential structures and related
accessory structures;
            3.   The traffic and parking system shall be shown in detail
indicating points of ingress and egress into the property, public and private
drives, parking areas and pedestrian walkways. The system shall be responsive
to the village’s access controls as addressed in §§
153.230 through
153.237;
            4.   A detailed parking layout, where applicable, shall be provided
that includes the number of spaces provided by total number on-site and summed
by row, and access points and expected movement through and between separate
parking lot areas. Dimensions of the above shall also be provided. For PCD and
all commercial uses in another planned district, expected pedestrian access
routes from parking areas to stores shall be indicated;
            5.   An analysis of potential traffic impacts that will result from
the proposed development following standard traffic assessment techniques and
references, with one outcome an estimate of street and other traffic
improvements necessitated by the development;
            6.   A list of specific restrictions applicable to the area being
considered for zoning map amendment which are designed to fulfill the concept
proposed, including prohibited uses, any additional limiting text, and proposed
deed restrictions;
            7.   Screening, landscaping, and other provisions required under §§
153.275 through
153.281 and other relevant sections;
            8.   The proposed provision of all utilities, storm drainage
collection, trash collection systems, and street lighting system shall be
specifically detailed;
            9.   Architectural renderings and accompanying narrative to discuss
in detail the design treatment of all buildings and structures except single-
family and two-family structures. Conceptual renderings as an example of
single-family and two-family structures shall be provided;
            10.   Under PID, a narrative shall be provided indicating the
nature of all activities to be carried on and expected levels of noise, dust,
smoke, glare, odor, or vibration to result from the normal operation of the
specific industrial activity. Future uses that are a change from approved uses
and any internal expansions shall require the approval of the Planning
Commission;
            11.   Proposed signage treatment in accordance with §§
153.250 through
153.261;
            12.   Proposed schedule of site development indicating all phases
of the development plan by phrase, indicating a summary of land use and
dwelling units by time frame; and
            13.   All deed restrictions and covenants.
         (i)   Any other additional information requested by the Planning
Commission or Village Council.
   (F)   Criteria for review. The Planning Commission shall, at a minimum,
consider the following factors in the review of the application:
      (1)   Compatibility of the proposed amendment to adjacent land use,
adjacent zoning, and to appropriate plans for the area;
      (2)   Relationship of the proposed amendment to access and traffic flow;
      (3)   Relationship of the proposed amendment to the public health,
safety, convenience, comfort, prosperity, and general welfare; and
      (4)   Relationship of the proposed uses to the adequacy of available
services and to general expansion plans and planned capital improvements.
   (G)   Review procedure.
      (1)   Filing of application. Fifteen copies of a completed application
and concept plan shall be submitted to the Director of Inspection and
Engineering at least seven days prior to the Board’s next scheduled meeting.
Prior to accepting such submittal, the Director shall review the submittal and
determine whether such submittal is complete and meets all submittal
requirements. Failure to submit a complete application, as determined by the
Director, shall result in a refusal of acceptance.
      (2)   Technical Review Group. The Technical Review Group shall review and
comment on applications in accordance with the provisions of §
153.038.
      (3)   Concept plan. The application and concept plan shall be submitted
to the Director for consideration by the Planning Commission. The concept plan
shall be forwarded by the Director to the Village Engineer, Utilities Director,
County Soil and Water Conservation District, and Township Fire Department for
review and comments.
      (4)   Public hearing. A public hearing of the Planning Commission shall
be set for not more than 45 days from the date of acceptance of a complete
application and concept plan. Nothing in this section shall prevent the Board
from granting a continuance of the public hearing.
      (5)   Public notice for hearing. At least one notice shall be published
at least two weeks prior to a scheduled public hearing in one or more
newspapers of general circulation in the village. Such notice shall include the
date, time, and place of the public hearing, nature of the proposed amendment,
and a statement that after the conclusion of such public hearing the Planning
Commission will render a decision on the concept plan and forward same to the
Village Council for informational purposes.
      (6)   Notice to property owners. If the proposed amendment intends to
rezone or redistrict ten or less parcels of land, as listed on the tax
duplicate, written notice of the hearing shall be mailed by the village,
certified mail, at least 30 days prior to the date of a scheduled public
hearing to all property owners within, contiguous to, or directly across the
street from such area proposed to be rezoned or redistricted. The list of
addresses may correspond to the County Auditor’s current tax list. Notice shall
correspond to division (G)(5) of this section in content.
      (7)   Action by Planning Commission.
         (a)   Within 31 days of the public hearing, the Planning Commission
shall review the concept plan and make one of the following actions of the
majority of members of such Commission:
            1.   Approval of the concept plan as requested;
            2.   Approval of the concept plan with modifications; or
            3.   Disapproval of the concept plan.
         (b)   The Planning Commission will forward one copy of the concept
plan and action thereon of the majority of the members of such Commission to
the Village Council for their information.
      (8)   Development plan submittal.
         (a)   No later than 12 months from the date of the Planning
Commission’s action to approve or approve with modification a submitted concept
plan, the applicant may submit 15 copies of a completed application and
development plan to the Director of Inspection and Engineering at least seven
days prior to the Board’s next scheduled meeting. Failure to submit an
application and development plan within this time frame shall render the
approved concept plan null and void.
         (b)   Prior to accepting such submittal, the Director shall review the
submittal and determine whether such submittal is complete and meets all
submittal requirements. Failure to submit a complete application, as determined
by the Director, shall result in a refusal of acceptance.
      (9)   Public hearing. A public hearing of the Planning Commission shall
be set for not more than 45 days from the date of the acceptance of a complete
application and development plan to amend the official zoning map. Nothing in
this section shall prevent the Commission from granting a continuance of the
public hearing.
      (10)   Public notice for hearing. At least one notice shall be published
at least two weeks prior to a scheduled public hearing in one or more
newspapers of general circulation in the village. Such notice shall include the
date, time, and place of the public hearing, nature of the proposed amendment,
and a statement that after the conclusion of such public hearing, the Planning
Commission will forward a recommendation on the development plan to Village
Council for final action.
      (11)   Notice to property owners. If the proposed amendment intends to
rezone or redistrict ten or less parcels of land, as listed on the tax
duplicate, written notice of the hearing shall be mailed by the village, by
certified mail, at least 30 days prior to the date of a scheduled public
hearing to all property owners within, contiguous to, or directly across the
street from such area proposed to be rezoned or redistricted. The list of
addresses may correspond to the County Auditor’s current tax list. Notice shall
correspond to division (G)(5) of this section in content.
      (12)   Action by Planning Commission. Within 31 days of the public
hearing, the Planning Commission shall review the application and development
plan and forward one of the following recommendations of the majority of the
members of such Commission to Village Council:
         (a)   Recommend amendment be granted as requested;
         (b)   Recommend a modification of amendment; or
         (c)   Recommend amendment not be granted.
      (13)   Public hearing of the Council. Upon receipt of such
recommendation, the Village Council shall schedule a public hearing within 45
days of the receipt. Nothing in this section shall prevent the Council from
continuing a public hearing.
      (14)   Public notice for hearing. At least one notice shall be published
at least two weeks prior to a scheduled public hearing in one or more
newspapers of general circulation in the village. Such notice shall include the
date, time, and place of the public hearing, nature of the proposed amendment,
and a summary of Planning Commission recommendation.
      (15)   Notice to property owners. Written notice of the hearing shall be
mailed by the village, by certified mail, at least 30 days prior to date of
public hearing to all property owners within, contiguous to, or directly across
the street from such area proposed to be rezoned or redistricted. Notice shall
correspond to division (G)(10) of this section in content and mailing
addresses.
      (16)   Action by Village Council. 
         (a)   Within 31 days after the public hearing, Council shall adopt or
deny the recommendation of Planning Commission or adopt a modification thereof.
To reverse or modify recommendation of the Board, the affirmative vote of five
members of Council is required.
         (b)   An application for amending this chapter that has been
disapproved by Village Council shall not be resubmitted to the village for
reconsideration until after one year of the date of such disapproval by
Council.
      (17)   Expiration. Failure to develop a minimum of 20% of the approved
improvements, including right-of-way, infrastructure, and structures, on the
subject properties within two years of the date of approval by Village Council
or completed within the submitted and approved time frame shall result in a
consideration of repeal of the approved zoning by Village Council.
      (18)   Platting.
         (a)   The creation of new parcels under any subdistrict shall be
subject to platting under the subdivision regulations (see
Chapter 152 of these codified ordinances). Failure to submit an application for
platting no later than 12 months from the effective date of the rezoning or in
accordance with the submitted and approved time frame shall render the zoning
null and void and the property shall revert to its previous zoning. Following a
show of cause by the applicant, the Village Council may grant an extension
beyond the 12-month platting requirement.
         (b)   To reduce the length of the review and approval process, a
preliminary subdivision plan can be submitted simultaneously with the
development plan for rezoning to the planned district to initiate both rezoning
and subdivision processes. A final subdivision plat cannot be submitted for
review until an amendment to PRD, PID, PCD, or PUD has been approved by Village
Council and such amendment has become effective.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 2006-008, passed 7-5-2006)
Cross-reference:
   Ground satellite stations, see §
153.198
   Home occupations, see §
153.197
   Landscaping, see §§
153.275 through
153.281
   Off-street parking and loading, see §§
153.230 through
153.237
   Signs, see §§
153.250 through
153.261
   Subdivision design standards, see
Chapter 152
   Swimming pools, see §
153.190
§ 153.175 OVERLAY DISTRICTS (LC AND LR).
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The original village section of the village is a unique area
comprised of residences, neighborhood businesses serving the personal, family,
and household needs of residents, offices, and public and semi-public land
uses. These uses are contained in structures representing a variety of
architectural styles which reflect the era in which most of the original
village was constructed. Areas of the original village designated as historic
districts are subject to special architectural controls under the Historic
Preservation Board.
      (2)   The historical zoning structure within this area fails to
adequately reflect the development character and pattern that has occurred over
time. Conflicts occur between regulatory structures and historical development
trends. The complexity of a mixed-use area cannot adequately be addressed
through traditional zoning techniques. In addition, special development
standards are necessary to protect the historic architectural character that
has developed. To encourage and support this traditional mixed- use
environment, the overlay districts are hereby adopted.
      (3)   The overlay districts are comprised of two subdistricts: the
Limited Commercial Overlay District (LC) and the Limited Residential Overlay
District (LR). Overlay districts are overlay zoning districts and the
underlying district standards and requirements shall apply unless where
superseded by the LC or LR regulations and requirements.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are subject to the site plan
requirements of this section and architectural requirements under the Historic
Preservation Board, as applicable, as well as the general provisions of this
Zoning Code. Land and buildings in the Overlay Districts (LC and LR) shall be
used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Limited Commercial Overlay District (LC).
         (a)   Permitted uses allowed in the General Commercial District (GC)
except where expressly prohibited by these regulations;
         (b)   Single-family detached homes;
         (c)   Residential living quarters located within and subordinate to
the principal permitted use;
         (d)   Bed and breakfast inns meeting the requirements of §
153.201; and
         (e)   Home occupations in accordance with §
153.197.
      (2)   Limited Residential Overlay District (LR).
         (a)   Single-family detached homes;
         (b)   Churches and other similar places of worship and parish houses,
provided there are at least 100 seats or similar accommodations in the main
assembly hall;
         (c)   Public parks, playgrounds, recreation and community swimming
pools, tennis courts and similar recreational uses, all of a noncommercial
nature; provided, that any principal building or swimming pool used therefor
shall be located not less than 150 feet from any other lot in any Residential
District;
         (d)   Public and private schools; and
         (e)   Home occupations in accordance with §
153.197.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be allowed in the Overlay
Districts (LC and LR) where indicated subject to approval in accordance with §
153.042:
      (1)   Limited Commercial Overlay District (LC).
         (a)   Offices of veterinarians and animal hospitals;
         (b)   Residential structures containing between two and four dwelling
units;
         (c)   Children’s nurseries and day care centers; and
         (d)   Home occupations in accordance with §
153.197.
      (2)   Limited Residential Overlay District (LR).
         (a)   Residential structures containing between two and four dwelling
units;
         (b)   Home occupations in accordance with §
153.197;
         (c)   Rest homes, nursing homes, and children’s nurseries and day care
centers; and
         (d)   Bed and breakfast inns meeting the requirements of §
153.201.
   (D)   Prohibited uses. The following uses shall be prohibited in the Overlay
District (LC and LR):
      (1)   Fast-food restaurants;
      (2)   Convenience food markets;
      (3)   All auto-related uses, such as sales and services;
      (4)   Gasoline service stations;
      (5)   Hotels and motels;
      (6)   Recreational uses except publicly-owned and operated parks and
recreational facilities; and
      (7)   Other uses that are determined by the Planning Commission to be
incompatible with the purpose of the Overlay District.
   (E)   Development standards. The applicable development standards for bed
and breakfast facilities are summarized in §
153.201.
      (1)   Lot and building requirements. The following lot and building
requirements are minimum standards, except where noted, and shall apply in the
Overlay Districts (LC and LR):
         (a)   Lot area: for residential uses, the minimum lot area shall be
6,000 square feet; for nonresidential uses, no minimum lot area is required;
however, the lot area shall be adequate to provide the required yard space;
         (b)   Lot coverage (maximum): for residential uses, the lot coverage
shall be 40%; for nonresidential uses, no maximum lot coverage is required;
however, the lot coverage shall be adequate to provide the yard space required;
         (c)   Lot width: for residential uses, the minimum lot width shall be
40 feet at the building line and 30 feet of frontage on an improved public
right-of-way; for nonresidential uses, no minimum lot width is required;
however, all lots shall abut an improved public right-of-way and have adequate
width to provide the required yard space and meet minimum access requirements;
         (d)   Front yard setback: the minimum front yard setback shall be
determined by averaging the existing building lines of the two parcels adjacent
to the subject parcel. If an adjacent parcel or parcels are absent of principal
structures, then the next adjacent parcel with a principal structure shall be
used in calculating the setback. For corner lots, the setback shall be
calculated by the average of the existing building line of the adjacent parcels
and 30 feet;
         (e)   Side yard setback: for residential uses, the minimum side yard
setback shall be five feet; for nonresidential uses the minimum side yard
setback shall be not less than eight feet; and
         (f)   Rear yard setback: for residential uses, the minimum rear yard
setback shall be 15 feet; for accessory uses and structures associated with a
principal residential use, the minimum rear yard setback shall be eight feet;
for nonresidential uses the minimum rear yard setback shall be not less than 15
feet; for nonresidential uses serviced from the rear, a service court,
alleyway, or combination thereof shall be provided of not less than 40 feet in
width.
      (2)   Supplemental standards. The following supplemental standards shall
apply within the Overlay Districts (LC and LR):
         (a)   No building shall exceed 40 feet in height, nor more than three
stories in height;
         (b)   Any building with a height in excess of one and one-half stories
or 20 feet shall have a basement unless that building’s use is designed for 100
or more people;
         (c)   Applicable standards shall be met in corresponding provisions of
this chapter; and
         (d)   Any building designed for the use of 50 or more people must be
compliant with FEMA P-361 "Safe Rooms for Tornados and Hurricanes, Guidance for
Community and Residential Safe Rooms", Third Edition or later. As an
alternative, buildings designed for the use of 50 or more people can have a
basement suitable for use as a tornado safe area.
   (F)   Conflicts. In cases where the requirements and standards of the
Overlay District conflicts with similar requirements and standards of the
underlying zoning district, the Overlay District shall supersede such
underlying zoning district.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 98-159, passed 11-16-1998; Ord. 99-103,
passed 3-1-1999; Ord. 2019-046, passed 9-3-2019)
Cross-reference:
   Accessory uses and structures, see §
153.200
   Bed and breakfast facilities, see §
153.201
   Ground satellite stations, see §
153.198
   Historical preservation and design review, see §§
153.080 through
153.094
   Home occupations, see §
153.197
   Signs, see §§
153.250 through
153.261
   Swimming pools, see §
153.190
   Yard and frontage modifications, see §§
153.215 through
153.218
   Yard projections, see §
153.216
§ 153.176 FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT (FP).
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of the Floodplain District (FP) to prohibit
the use of floodplains for uses which could be detrimental to health and
welfare. The Floodplain District (FP) is an overlay zoning district and the
underlying district standards and requirements shall apply unless where
superseded by the Floodplain District (FP) regulations and requirements.
   (B)   Lands subject to flooding. For the purposes of this Zoning Code,
FLOODPLAINS are defined as those lands subject to inundation by the 100-year
flood, as identified in the “Flood Insurance Study for Waynesville, Ohio” with
accompanying flood boundary and floodway maps and flood insurance rate maps
dated June 4, 1980, and any revisions thereto.
   (C)   Prohibited uses in floodplains.
      (1)   Structures designed or used for human habitation;
      (2)   The storage or processing of materials that are pollutants,
buoyant, flammable, poisonous, explosive, or could be injurious to human,
animal, or plant life in time of flooding, or that have a high flood damage
potential; and
      (3)   Garbage and waste disposal facilities.
   (D)   Permitted uses. The only uses allowed in a floodplain area are those
uses which are not specifically prohibited in division (C) of this section
which meet the requirements of Chapter 151 of these codified ordinances (Ord.
96-152, Flood Damage Prevention, as amended), and which are permitted in the
underlying zoning district unless superseded by the regulations and
prohibitions of this chapter and Chapter 151, as amended.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
Cross-reference:
   Flood prevention regulations, see
Chapter 151
§ 153.177 EXCEPTIONAL USE DISTRICT (EU).
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The Exceptional Use District (EU) is designed to permit certain
uses which are not addressed in any other adopted district and which are of a
nature as to warrant individual consideration and regulation due to unique
demands placed upon the public health, safety, and general welfare and the
requirements of location and development that generally are peculiar to these
uses.
      (2)   The Exceptional Use District (EU) is intended to allow these uses
to be suitably located and developed to appropriate and necessary standards of
development in relation to other land uses and development with a minimum of
conflict, without undue demand on necessary public services and facilities, and
without adverse impact on the natural environment. To this end, these uses are
intended to be developed in a manner of appropriate architectural, engineering,
and landscape design and layout with necessary space or other provisions
regarding development or operation to overcome any obnoxious or hazardous
effect on adjacent lands as such effect may be a potential in the proposed use.
   (B)   Special uses. Land or buildings may be approved as permitted uses in
the Exceptional Use District (EU) provided that such use is not a permitted or
conditional use in any other district. The Exceptional Use District shall be
limited to the following uses:
      (1)   Golf club, country club, fishing club or lake, gun club, riding
stable, including boarding of animals, or similar recreational facility
operated on an admission fee or membership basis;
      (2)   Cemetery or crematory not otherwise allowed by the provisions of
this Zoning Code, provided that use occupies a lot of not less than five acres;
and
      (3)   Other legal uses of unique or exceptional requirements of
circumstances that are otherwise not permitted by this Zoning Code.
   (C)   Application procedure. The application procedure for amendments shall
apply as stated in §
153.041(B) except §
153.041(B)(3)(g), which shall be replaced with a development plan, 15 copies of
which shall be submitted with the application. The development plan shall
include in text and map form:
      (1)   The proposed location and size of areas of use, indicating size,
location, and type of structures;
      (2)   The proposed location, size, and use of all open areas landscaped
and other open space with ownership of such areas;
      (3)   The proposed provision of water, sanitary sewer, and surface
drainage facilities including engineering feasibility or other evidence of
reasonableness;
      (4)   The proposed circulation pattern including streets, both public and
private, driveways, parking areas, walking and other access ways including
their relation to topography, existing streets, and other evidence of
reasonableness;
      (5)   The proposed schedule of site development and construction of
buildings and associated facilities, and sketches or other documentation
indicating design principals or concepts for site development, buildings,
lighting and illumination, landscapes, or other features. Such schedule shall
include the use or redevelopment of existing features such as structures,
streets, easements, utility lines, and land use;
      (6)   The relationship of the proposed development to the existing and
future land use in the surrounding areas, the street system, community
facilities and services, and other public improvements; and
      (7)   Evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the land to
effectuate the proposed development plan within three years. Such control
includes property rights, economic resources, and engineering feasibility as
may be necessary.
   (D)   Criteria for review. The Planning Commission shall, at the minimum,
consider the following factors in the review of the application:
      (1)   The proposed development is consistent in all respects to the
purpose, intent, and applicable standards of this Zoning Code;
      (2)   The proposed development is compatible with adjacent land use,
adjacent zoning and to appropriate plans for the area;
      (3)   The proposed development advances the general welfare of the
village and that the benefits to be derived from the proposed use justifies the
change in land use character of the area; and
      (4)   The proposed development promotes the public health, safety,
convenience, comfort, prosperity, and general welfare.
   (E)   Review procedure. The review procedure shall be as stated and required
in §
153.041(D) except as to effect of approval as stated in division (F) of this
section.
   (F)   Effect of approval; time extension or modification.
      (1)   Effect of approval. The development plan as approved by the Village
Council shall constitute an amendment of the official zoning map. Such approval
shall be for a three-year period commencing from the date of approval by
Council to allow the preparation of a subdivision plat or application for
certificate of zoning compliance, whichever shall apply. The approval shall
become voided and the land shall revert to its last previous zoning district if
a final subdivision plat has not been approved or a certificate of zoning
compliance has not been issued, unless an extension of time is granted as per
division (F)(2) of this section.
      (2)   Time extension or modification. An extension of the time limit or
the modification of the approved development plan may be approved by the
Village Council following receipt of a recommendation from the Planning
Commission. Such approval shall be given upon the finding of the purpose and
necessity for such extension or modification and evidence of reasonable effort
toward the accomplishment of the approved development plan, and that such
extension or modification is not in conflict with the general health, safety,
and welfare of the public or the development standards of the Exceptional Use
District (EU).
   (G)   Development standards. The provisions of §§
153.190 through
153.281 shall pertain to the Exceptional Use District (EU). Because of the
unique nature and requirements of these uses, and because their locations
cannot be readily predetermined, appropriate development standards,
requirements, and other provisions of this Zoning Code, as appropriate, shall
be used.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
Cross-reference:
   Accessory uses and structures, see §
153.200
   Height, area and yard modifications, see §§
153.215 through
153.218
   Landscaping, see §§
153.275 through
153.281
   Off-street parking and loading, see §§
153.230 through
153.237
   Satellite ground stations, see §
153.198
   Signs, see §§
153.250 through
153.261
   Special provisions, see §§
153.190 through
153.202
§ 153.178 WELLHEAD PROTECTION DISTRICT (WHP).
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AQUIFER. A consolidated or unconsolidated geologic formation or series of
formations that are hydraulically interconnected and that have the ability to
receive, store, or transmit water.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE (BMP). A practice or combination of practices
determined to be the most effective practicable (including technological,
economic, and institutional considerations) means of preventing or reducing the
amount of pollution generated by nonpoint sources of pollution to a level
compatible with water quality goals. BMPs may include structural and
nonstructural practices, conservation practices, and operation and maintenance
procedures, as defined by the Soil and Water Conservation District.
      CERCLA. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act, as amended by the Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 9601 et seq.
      CONTAMINANT. Any physical, chemical, biological, or radiological
substance or matter that has an adverse effect on air, water, or soil.
      INJECTION WELL. A well into which fluids are being injected and
classified as per O.A.C. § 3745-34-04.
      OSHA. The Occupational Safety and Health Act, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 651 et
seq.
      POTABLE WATER. Water suitable for human consumption as defined by SDWA.
      PROTECTED PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. A public water system which serves at
least 15 service connections used by year round residents whose wells lie
within the sole source aquifer.
      REGULATED SUBSTANCES. Chemicals or mixtures of chemicals that are health
hazards as specified in division (E) of this section.
      RCRA. The Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et
seq.
      SDWA. The Safe Drinking Water Act, P.L. 95-523, as amended by P.L. 96-
502, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 300f et seq.
      SOLE SOURCE AQUIFER. The portion of the Buried Valley Aquifer System of
the Great and Little Miami River Basins of Southwestern Ohio; determined to be
the sole or principal source of drinking water for the village. Pursuant to §
1424(a) or (e) of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. § 300h-3).
      TIME-OF-TRAVEL BOUNDARY. A locus of points from which water takes an
equal amount of time to reach a given destination such as a well or wellfield.
      TSCA. The Toxic Substance Control Act, as amended, being 15 U.S.C. §§
2601 et seq.
      WELL. A bored, drilled, or driven shaft, or a dug hole whose depth is
greater than the largest surface dimension and whose purpose is to reach
underground water or oil supplies, or to store or bury fluids below ground.
      WELL FIELD. A tract of land that contains one or more wells for supplying
water.
      WELLHEAD. The physical structure, facility, or device at the land surface
from or through which ground water flows or is pumped from subsurface water
bearing formations.
   (B)   Purpose: aquifer protection “AP” and Wellhead Protection “WP” Overlay
Areas.
      (1)   The regulations set forth in this section, or set forth elsewhere
in this Zoning Code, are the zoning regulations for the Aquifer Protection
Overlay “AP” and the Wellhead Protection Overlay “WP” Areas.
      (2)   The purpose of these regulations is to safeguard the public health,
safety, and welfare and to provide for the protection and availability of the
existing and future potable ground water supply in the village aquifer area.
      (3)   Furthermore, it is intended that the protected public water supply
wells within the designated sole source aquifer boundaries be protected from
contamination both by preventing increased risk and by reducing existing risk
to the public water supply.
      (4)   These regulations set forth requirements, standards, and criteria
for the control of toxic or otherwise hazardous contaminants within the sole
source aquifer, primarily through the control of regulated substances and land
use.
   (C)   Determination of applicability.
      (1)   It shall be the responsibility of any person owning real property
and/or owning or operating a business within the Wellhead Protection Area and
Aquifer Protection Area of the village to make a determination of the
applicability of these regulations as they pertain to the property and/or
business under his or her ownership or operation and his or her failure to do
so shall not excuse any violations of these regulations.
      (2)   Nothing contained in these regulations shall be construed so as to
interfere with any existing or future lawful requirements that may be, or
heretofore were, imposed by any other public body authorized to enact sanitary,
health, or water pollution abatement restrictions so long as such requirements
are consistent with, or more stringent than, the stated purpose of these
regulations.
   (D)   Permitted land uses. Permitted land uses within the Aquifer Protection
“AP” and Wellhead Protection “WP” Overlay shall be those of the existing zoning
district, excepting those listed below, provided they meet all requirements of
these regulations. Landfills comprised of demolition debris, fly ash, foundry
sand, or other non-approved matter, junkyards, dry wells, and newly sited
sanitary landfills are prohibited within the “AP” and “WP” Overlay Areas.
Septage spraying and sludge spreading without prior approval from the Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency and the Village Manager are prohibited within
these overlay areas.
   (E)   Regulated substances.
      (1)   Regulated substances are chemicals or mixtures of chemicals that
are or could be health hazards. Materials packaged for personal or household
use as food or drink for humans or other animals are not regulated substances.
Regulated substances include:
         (a)   Chemicals which are regulated by SDWA, TSCA, RCRA, OSHA, CERCLA,
or other state and/or federal environmental laws and regulations, or for which
there is scientific evidence that acute or chronic health effects may result
from exposure including carcinogens, toxic and highly toxic agents,
reproductive toxins, irritants, corrosives, sensitizers, hepatotoxins,
nephrotoxins, neurotoxins, agents which act on the hematopoietic system, and
agents which damage the lungs, skin, eyes, or mucous membranes;
         (b)   Mixtures of chemicals which have been tested as a whole and have
been determined to be a health hazard;
         (c)   Mixtures of chemicals which have not been tested as a whole but
which contain any chemical which has been determined to be a health hazard and
which comprises 1% or greater of the composition on a weight per unit weight
basis, and mixtures of chemicals which include a carcinogen if the
concentration of the carcinogen in the mixture is 0.1% or greater of the
composition on a weight per unit weight basis;
         (d)   Ingredients of mixtures prepared within the Aquifer Protection
Overlay Area in cases where such ingredients are health hazards but comprise
less than 0.1% of the mixture (on a weight per unit weight basis) if
carcinogenic, or if less than 1% of the mixture (on a weight per unit weight
basis) if non-carcinogenic; and
         (e)   Petroleum and non-sold petroleum derivatives (except non PCB
dielectric fluids).
      (2)   Determination of whether a material is a regulated substance can be
made upon review of a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS). This should be
available from the manufacturer, vendor, or distributor of the product. The
most recent United States Environmental Protection Agency Title III Lists of
Lists is a reference to potential regulated substances and is not a
comprehensive listing.
      (3)   Determination and verification of regulated substances shall be
administered by the Village Manager or designee.
   (F)   Technical consultants. Upon application for a zoning permit and/or
site plan review for a use within the Aquifer Protection and Wellhead
Protection Overlay Areas, the Village Manager may obtain such technical
expertise as needed to ensure compliance with the provisions of these
regulations. The entire costs of obtaining the technical expertise, as needed
to ensure compliance with the provisions of these regulations, shall be paid by
the applicant in accordance with §
36.01 (Ord. 95-194).
   (G)   Site plan submission requirements. The following are submission
requirements in addition to those stated elsewhere in this Zoning Code for all
sites located within the Aquifer Protection and/or Wellhead Protection Overlay
Areas.
      (1)   Additional site plan contents. The following shall be necessary
contents of the site plan, in addition to those stated in this Zoning Code, §§
153.060 through
153.067, site development plans:
         (a)   The locations where regulated substances will handled and
stored, and/or contained in the event of a spill or leak;
         (b)   The location or type of security systems to be installed; and
         (c)   Detailed plans of all accidental spill or discharge containment
measures.
      (2)   Description of regulated substances operations. Description of
operations, activities, and processes to be conducted at the site, emphasizing
those involving regulated substances. A list of regulated substances and
expected quantities shall also be furnished.
      (3)   Regulated substances management plan. Methods to achieve compliance
with the requirements for use, handling, and storage of regulated substances,
contained herein for regulated substances.
      (4)   Site ground water monitoring plan. Location of both baseline and
continuing monitoring wells, specifications for such wells and schedules for
reporting monitoring results as specified by the Village Manager or designee as
a condition of site plan approval.
      (5)   Emergency response plan. Procedures and responsibility, including
required reporting to appropriate officials, in the event of any accidental or
otherwise unauthorized release of any regulated substance at the site. This may
be submitted at any time prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
   (H)   Spills, leaks, or discharges.
      (1)   Any entity or person with direct knowledge of a spill, leak, or
discharge of a regulated substance within the Aquifer Protection and Wellhead
Protection Overlay Areas shall, if such spill, leak, or discharge escapes
containment, contacts a non-impervious ground surface and is not immediately
and completely remediated, give notice to the local fire district, local
emergency planning committee, the village and the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency within 30 minutes of knowledge of the discharge. Additionally, the
entity or person shall provide the local fire district, at a minimum, the
location of the incident, name and telephone number, date and time thereof,
type of substances, concentration and volume, and control or corrective action
taken. Such notification shall in no way alleviate other local, state, and
federal reporting obligations as required by law.
      (2)   Any entity or person who spills, leaks, or discharges the
substances shall be liable for any reasonable expense, loss, or damages
incurred by the county, village, and/or public water system operation in
response to such an incident, in addition to the amount of any fines imposed
thereof under state and federal law. The entity or person shall document and
maintain sufficient records so as to reflect accurately the circumstances
related to any such incident and develop and implement procedures to
substantially eliminate the likelihood of reoccurrence of such spills, leaks,
or discharges as soon as practicable following the incident, but no later than
30 days after the incident.
      (3)   The application of agricultural chemicals, fertilizers, mineral
acids, organic sulphur compounds, and the like, used in routine agricultural
operations, including plant nutrients and crop protection materials, applied
under best management practices as indicated by soil tests, the Ohio State
University Extension, the Soil and Water Conservation District, and label
directions approved by the United States Environmental Protection Agency or the
state’s Department of Agriculture shall not be considered a spill, leak, or
discharge subject to the reporting provisions of this section.
   (I)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Application. If any activity or use of a regulated substance is
deemed by the Village Manager to be in violation of these regulations and pose
a real and present danger of contaminating surface and/or ground water which
would normally enter the public water supply, in accordance with R.C. § 713.13
or other applicable state laws, the Village Manager is authorized to:
         (a)   Cause cessation of the activity or use of the regulated
substance;
         (b)   Require the provisions of administrative controls and/or
facilities sufficient to mitigate the danger; and/or
         (c)   Cause the provision of pollution control and/or abatement
activities.
      (2)   Consideration. When considering the exercise of any of the above
authorities or actions, the Village Manager shall utilize the services of a
technically qualified person in making such determination and shall notify and
consult with the owner or designated representative of the potentially affected
and/or affected public water supply to determine what measures need to be taken
to ensure the public water supply is reasonably and a equally protected from
contamination for the present and the future. The Village Manager may take into
consideration any evidence represented by the entity regarding cost
effectiveness and the economic effectiveness and the economic impact imposed by
the requirements or actions.
      (3)   Inspections. Subject to applicable provisions of law, the Village
Manager or authorized designee bearing proper identification shall be permitted
to enter private property at any reasonable time, with reasonable cause or with
prior notification, for such purposes as inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and records examination pertaining to the requirements of these
regulations to ensure that activities are in accordance with the provisions of
this Zoning Code. Upon request of the entity which is the subject of the
inspection, and if permitted by the state public records law, information
obtained as a result of the inspection shall be maintained as confidential. If
the owner or tenant does not consent to the entry of the administrate officer
for the above stated purposes, the administrative officer may apply to a court
of competent jurisdiction for an appropriate warrant or other authority to
enter the property.
   (J)   Aquifer Protection “AP” Overlay Area Standards. Permitted uses in
Aquifer Protection and Wellhead Protection Overlay areas shall be subject to
the standards in this section.
      (1)   Establishment of Aquifer Protection AP Overlay standards. The
Aquifer Protection Overlay Area shall be as defined as the five-year time of
travel and sensitive zones in the Wellhead Protection Study for the village, as
prepared by Panterra Consultants in 1995.
      (2)   Alternate criteria for determining buried valley hydrogeological
setting.
         (a)   Where an owner determines there is sufficient doubt as to the
location of the Aquifer Protection Area, he or she may have an assessment of
hydrogeological conditions prepared by technically qualified personnel. This
data will be submitted to the Planning Commission who, after consultation with
the Village Manager or his or her designee, will make a final determination as
to whether the tract of land in question should be determined as located within
the Aquifer Protection Area in the implementation of these regulations. All
expenses for the assessment shall be paid by the applicant.
         (b)   The hydrogeological site assessment shall include the following:
            1.   Literature search for information from previous hydrogeologic
investigations on and surrounding the site;
            2.   Hydrogeologic investigations to characterize ground water
conditions at the site if required by the Planning Commission;
            3.   Description of site hydrogeology including soils, ground
water/surface water interactions, aquifer type (such as sand and gravel,
bedrock), aquifer configuration, potential ground water storage, hydraulic
parameters, susceptibility to contamination, boundary conditions, ground water
flow rate and patterns, and an assessment of existing ground water quality; and
            4.   An assessment of existing ground water production patterns and
an evaluation of the site with reference to wellfield zone of contribution,
drinking water protection areas, and recharge areas.
         (c)   The hydrogeological site assessment approved by the Planning
Commission shall take precedence in determining the adjustment of Aquifer
Protection Overlay Area boundaries.
         (d)   Acknowledgment of outside time-of-travel boundaries: in the
event similar time-of- travel boundaries are created outside the jurisdiction
of this Zoning Code, utilizing Ohio Environmental Protection Agency Time Of-
Travel Transport Models, and one- to five-year time-of-travel boundaries are
created and do extend into the jurisdiction of this Zoning Code, upon
completion of this code, the village will enforce its AP Overlay Areas
regulations within this area.
      (3)   Use, handling, and storage of regulated substances. The use,
handling, and storage of all regulated substances shall be in accordance with
the following standards.
         (a)   All underground storage facilities used for regulated substances
shall be designed and constructed with secondary containment systems that are
capable of holding, at a minimum, 110% of the primary container.
         (b)   All underground storage facilities shall have a monitoring
system approved by the Village Manager and the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency.
         (c)   Transfer and/or above-ground storage facilities for regulated
substances shall be equipped with impervious containment and dikes enclosing
the entire transfer and/or storage area of the facility. The volume of the
diked area shall be capable of holding, at a minimum, at least 110% of the
capacity of the largest tank contained therein. Dikes around above ground
transfer and/or storage facilities, and the entire area enclosed by the dikes,
shall be made impervious to the types of substances expected to be stored in
the tanks. Drainage or precipitation from within the diked area shall be
controlled in a manner that will prevent any regulated substance from entering
the ground, ground water, or surface waters.
         (d)   All transfer and/or storage facilities shall have shut-off
valves for piping, other conduits, and containers used for regulated substances
designed in accordance with accepted engineering standards as specified by the
Village Manager.
         (e)   The material used in the construction or lining of storage tanks
shall be compatible with the substance to be stored. Storage tanks shall be
protected against corrosion and designed in a manner approved by the Village
Manager to prevent the release or threatened release of any stored regulated
substance.
         (f)   Incompatible materials shall be located in separated areas
within all transfer and storage areas on a site.
         (g)   The placement of any regulated substance in direct contact with
the surface of the ground shall be prohibited. In lieu of placing regulated
substances in direct contact with the surface of the ground, such substances
should be underlain with diked pads or platforms constructed of impervious
materials.
         (h)   Any storage of drums, tanks, or other vessels susceptible to
weather related damage which contain or have contained regulated substances
shall be protected against damage from heat, cold, rust, and other weather-
related conditions.
         (i)   All transfer and/or storage areas of a facility where regulated
substances are used, stored, or handled shall be adequately secured from access
by unauthorized persons.
         (j)   The discharge or disposal of any regulated substance into any
storm or sanitary sewer, except in accordance with a valid discharge permit, is
prohibited.
         (k)   Pipelines which contain regulated substances shall be built or
modified to meet secondary containment and monitoring requirements outlined
within these regulations.
      (4)   Other ground water protection standards.
         (a)   Stormwater detention/retention basins shall be equipped with
impermeable liners when necessary to prevent excessive infiltration into
underlying aquifers.
         (b)   Residential developments not connected to a central wastewater
treatment system shall comply with the County Combined Health District
regulations.
         (c)   All residential wastewater disposal systems within the Aquifer
Protection Overlay Area shall be required to be inspected annually by the
County Combined Health District per its specifications. This requirement shall
be fully implemented within one year of the effective date of these
regulations. All wastewater disposal systems serving nonresidential uses and
residential uses of four dwelling units or greater, within the Aquifer
Protection Overlay Area shall, contingent upon agreement with the Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency (OEPA), be required to be inspected annually by
the County Combined Health District per its specifications. This requirement
shall be fully implemented within one year of the effective date of the
agreement with OEPA.
         (d)   Abandonment of wells shall be in accordance with requirements of
Ohio's Private Water System Rules, O.A.C. Chapter 3701-28.
         (e)   Bulk storage facilities for road salt shall be equipped with
diked pads or platforms and covers constructed of impervious materials.
         (f)   Storage of agricultural chemicals shall be in standard approved
packaging, and application of such chemicals to real property shall be in
accordance with best management practices, such as those recommended by the
Ohio State University Extension or the County Soil and Water Conservation
District and applied by the United States Environmental Protection Agency label
directions.
         (g)   Mineral extraction activities within the AP Overlay Area shall
be regulated according to all applicable Ohio Department of Natural Resources
requirements and zoning requirements of the Aquifer Protection Overlay Area. In
cases of differing requirements, the more restrictive regulation shall apply.
         (h)   Livestock operations shall have animal waste management plans
approved by the County Soil and Water Conservation District in accordance with
the requirements of O.A.C. § 1501:15-5.
      (5)   Non-operating facilities. No person or entity shall abandon, close,
or temporarily cease operating facilities involving regulated substances
without complying with the following:
         (a)   Any nonresidential use of property that becomes unoccupied or
has discontinued operation for a period of 60 days or more shall remove all
regulated substances from the site within 90 days from the date of discontinued
use.
         (b)   An underground storage facility which is temporarily taken out
of service for a period of six months to one year, but which the operator
intends to return to use, shall be subject to the requirements of the State
Fire Code dealing with the abandonment of tanks.
         (c)   Underground storage facilities abandoned for a period exceeding
365 days must be removed in accordance with the requirements of the State Fire
Code.
   (K)   Ground water monitoring requirements. The following monitoring
provisions may apply to new operations, modification of any existing
operations, and/or any change of occupancy of all nonresidential uses requiring
a building permit and/or a site plan review within Aquifer Protection and
Wellhead Protection Overlay Areas that store or handle regulated substances.
Application of agricultural chemicals and the like, and the existing storage
facilities for such applications on land used for agricultural purposes as
defined in the Wellhead Protection Code, shall not be exempted from ground
water monitoring requirements. Newly constructed storage facilities for the
purposes, erected after adoption of these regulations, may require ground water
monitoring, if applicable.
      (1)   Consideration for applicability. The following criteria shall be
utilized in determining the necessity of a monitoring system. If it is
determined by the Village Manager that ground water monitoring is necessary,
these rules apply:
         (a)   The nature of the proposed operation;
         (b)   The amount and potential risk of the regulated substances to be
utilized;
         (c)   The existence and location of current monitoring systems;
         (d)   The characteristics of the aquifer in the vicinity of the site;
and
         (e)   The proximity to a protected public water supply.
      (2)   Baseline monitoring. Baseline ground water monitoring shall be
required at the proposed site of a new operation for a period of no less than
three months prior to the date of issuance of a certificate of occupancy. Wells
for such monitoring shall be of sufficient number, design, and location as
specified by the Utilities Department to determine prevailing hydrogeologic
conditions and baseline ground water quality. Parameters for baseline
monitoring shall be determined by the Utilities Department. Baseline monitoring
wells shall be sampled at least twice by the Utilities Department, with results
forwarded to the Village Manager.
      (3)   Continuing monitoring.
         (a)   Following baseline monitoring, a program of continuing
monitoring shall be required at the proposed site. Wells installed for baseline
monitoring shall be used for the continuing monitoring program, along with
supplemental monitoring wells installed as directed by the Utilities Department
based on review of the baseline monitoring results.
         (b)   Continuing monitoring wells shall be sampled at least quarterly
as specified by the Utilities Department. Parameters for continuing monitoring
shall be determined by the Utilities Department with consultation by qualified
water quality professionals as necessary.
            1.   Supplemental monitoring wells shall be installed at selected
locations with the site down-gradient of specific sources of regulated
substances such as storage tanks, loading areas, and the like.
            2.   Results of continuing monitoring shall be submitted at least
quarterly and forwarded to the Village Manager.
            3.   When results of continuing monitoring indicate the presence of
regulated substances not present in baseline monitoring results, or increases
in the levels of such substances, the Village Manager shall, with the
assistance from the Utilities Department, report the findings to the Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency and/or consult with owners/officials of the
facility or facilities in question to determine the origin of the substances
and develop plans for addressing the situation.
      (4)   Other monitoring requirements. Ground water monitoring requirements
of other federal, state, and local agencies in effect at the time of
application of the provisions of the Wellhead Protection Zoning Code shall also
apply in the AP and WP Overlay Areas as appropriate. Where the requirements of
such regulations differ from those of this code, the more restrictive
regulations shall apply.
   (L)   Wellhead Protection “WP” Overlay Area Standards. Permitted uses in the
Wellhead Protection Overlay Area, defined as the one-year time of travel in the
Wellhead Protection report, shall be subject to the standards in this section,
as well as all those listed for the AP area.
      (1)   Establishment of Wellhead Protection Zone Overlay boundaries.
         (a)   The owner of any protected public water supply well or wellfield
may establish a series of time-of-travel boundaries through the use of a
professional engineer.
         (b)   Time-of-travel boundaries must be delineated for one- and five-
year intervals surrounding the wellfield. The boundaries delineated shall
assume maximum pumping capacity from the wellfield. One of the following
methods shall be utilized in producing the time-of-travel boundaries; semi-
analytical, analytical, or numerical flow/solute transport models, as defined
by the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency. If a portion of a property is
located within the WP Overlay Area, the entire property shall be governed by
this section.
         (c)   Approval of a time-of-travel boundary as a Wellhead Protection
Overlay shall be administered by the zoning amendment process, as provided in
this Zoning Code or by the Planning Commission. The owner of the protected
public water supply shall be acknowledged as the applicant.
         (d)   Upon the Planning Board approval, the one-year time-of-travel
boundary shall be the boundary of the “WP” Overlay Area, effective 30 days
after its approval.
         (e)   The Wellhead Protection Overlay Area shall be as defined as the
one-year time of travel zone in the Wellhead Protection Study for the village,
as prepared by Panterra Consultants in 1995.
      (2)   Alterations to the “WP” Overlay Area boundary.
         (a)   Where an owner determines that there is sufficient doubt as to
the location of the time- of-travel boundary within the boundaries of his or
her tract of land, he or she may make application to the Planning Commission.
An application to exclude a tract of land from a WP Overlay Area must address
the following issues:
            1.   Identification of the proximity of the one-year time-of travel
boundary in relation to the tract of land;
            2.   Current land uses and existing zoning on the tract of land;
            3.   Review of adjacent hydrogeological site assessments as
outlined and time-of-travel boundary computations as outlined in division (I)
of this section;
            4.   Evidence of how the removal of a tract of land shall not
adversely affect the integrity of the WP Overlay Area; and
            5.   The entire costs of obtaining all research, materials, and
technical expertise, as needed to ensure compliance with the provisions of
these regulations, shall be paid by the applicant as per division (F) of this
section.
         (b)   Exclusion from the Wellhead Overlay Area does not necessarily
exclude the property from the Aquifer Protection Overlay Area regulations.
      (3)   Acknowledgment of outside time-of-travel boundaries. In the event
similar time-of-travel boundaries are created outside the jurisdiction of this
Zoning Code, utilizing Ohio Environmental Protection Agency Time-of-Travel
Transport Models, and one- to five-year time-of-travel boundaries are created
and do extend into the jurisdiction of this Zoning Code, upon completion of
this code, the village will enforce its WP Overlay Areas regulations within
this area.
      (4)   Regulated substances maximum quantities. Use (storage, handling,
and/or production) of regulated substances in conjunction with permitted uses
within the WP Overlay Area shall be limited to:
         (a)   At any given time, a permitted zoning use may not exceed the
reportable quantity for each regulated substance used, stored, handled, and/or
produced at a given site, as established by 40 C.F.R. §§ 302 et seq. All
unlisted regulated substances shall be limited to 100 pounds or 12.5 gallons at
any time; and
         (b)   The total use, storage, handling, and/or production of regulated
substances may not exceed 12 times the reportable quantity for each regulated
substance as established by 40 C.F.R. §§ 302 et seq., or for unlisted regulated
substances, 1,200 pounds or 150 gallons, in any 12-month period.
      (5)   Limited exclusions. Limited exclusions from the provisions of the
code are authorized for:
         (a)   Cleaning agents: cleaning agents shall be packaged for personal
or household use or be present in the same form and concentration as product
packages for use by the general public. In no case shall cleaning agents
claimed under this exclusion include hydrocarbon or halogenated hydrocarbon
solvents;
         (b)   Construction materials: regulated substances associated with
construction for which a zoning permit has been issued, paving or the pouring
of concrete shall be excluded from regulation while present on the construction
site provided such regulated substances do not pose a real and present danger
of contaminating surface and/or ground water as determined by the Utilities
Department;
         (c)   Office supplies: office supplies that are used solely for the
operation of on-site administrative offices, provided such supplies are
prepackaged in a form ready for use; and
         (d)   Agricultural chemicals: a limited exclusion is authorized for
on-site storage of a maximum one-year supply of agricultural chemicals to be
used for routine on-site agricultural operations, provided such substances are
stored in standard approved packaging, under specifications recommended by the
manufacturer, and such chemicals are applied to real property under best
management practices as indicated by soil tests, the Ohio State University
Extension, the County Soil and Water Conservation District, and label
directions approved by the United States Environmental Protection Agency and
Ohio Department of Agriculture. This limited exclusion also applies to the
application of agricultural chemicals to real property where such chemicals are
brought in from other locations. This provision does not exempt such
agricultural chemicals either stored on-site or brought in from other locations
from the inventory, spill reporting, and underground/above-ground storage tank
protection requirements of the AP and WP Overlay Area.
      (6)   Underground storage facilities. Five years from the effective date
of a time-of-travel boundary Zoning Code initiation, only storage of vehicle
fuel and vehicle lubricants and fuel for building and/or process heating may
occur in underground storage tank systems in the WP Overlay Area. At that time
fuels for nonresidential building and/or process heating and vehicle fuel and
lubricants shall be secondarily contained and monitored in accordance with
plans submitted to and approved by the Village Manager and in conformance with
rules and regulations of O.A.C. § 1301:7-9. Present underground storage tanks
containing fuel of residential building and/or process heating shall be exempt,
and future usage in new residential construction is not permitted.
      (7)   Existing businesses/nonconforming maximum quantities. Existing
businesses having nonconforming maximum quantities of regulated substances
within the WP Overlay Area may make application to the Board of Zoning and
Building Appeals to approve modifications in operation, changes in specific
regulated substances used or stored, and/or increase the maximum quantities of
regulated substances maintained on-site in response to changes in the market
and/or need to increase production, provided that:
         (a)   All other methods to respond to changes in the market or
increase production without exceeding the maximum quantities of reported
regulated substances have been exhausted; and
         (b)   The business can demonstrate that there shall be no greater
hazard and/or threat of hazard to the aquifer and/or ground water as a result
of increasing the amount of regulated substances. The Board of Zoning and
Building Appeals may approve increases to the maximum quantities of regulated
substances only after review of the application by the Village Manager and/or
his or her designee as outlined in the code.
    (M)   Reporting requirements of regulated substances.
      (1)   Any owner or occupant of a site used primarily for nonresidential
uses other than agriculture in the WP Overlay Area shall file an initial
regulated substance inventory report with the Planning Commission. The report
shall be filed within 180 days of the effective date of these regulations and
at 24-month intervals thereafter.
      (2)   Except as provided elsewhere, any new owner or occupant of any land
in the Wellhead Protection Area shall file a regulated substance inventory
report prior to receipt of a certificate of occupancy and at 24-month intervals
following the date of occupancy.
      (3)   Exclusions beyond initial inventory reporting.
         (a)   Any exclusions set forth in this division(M)(3) shall apply
provided that any spill, leak, discharge, or mishandling shall be subject to
the regulations of division (H) of this section. Any exclusions granted herein
shall not remove or limit the liability involved.
         (b)   An exclusion from regulated substance inventory reporting is
hereby authorized for the transportation of regulated substances through the WP
Overlay Area provided that the transporting vehicle is in compliance with
applicable federal and state laws and regulations, and provided that the
regulated substance is fueling the transporting vehicle or the transporting
vehicle is in continuous transit, making delivery, or is stopped for a period
of time not to exceed 72 hours.
         (c)   A limited exclusion from regulated substances inventory
reporting is hereby authorized for regulated substances that are contained
within tanks that are designed as an integral part of the motor vehicle, and
used specifically and solely for the operation of the motor vehicle. In no case
shall the tanker portion of a tractor-trailer truck be included in this
exclusion.
      (4)   (a)   Entities engaged in agricultural activities that are required
to file any SARA Title III, Community Right To Know Reports, shall also file
copies of those reports with the Village Manager.
         (b)   The entities shall also maintain records of applications and
purchases of agricultural chemicals per state and federal regulations. Such
records shall be made available as required.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996) Penalty, see §
153.999
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
§ 153.190 SWIMMING POOLS.
   No private swimming pool, above and below ground, shall be allowed in a
residential zoning district except as an accessory use, and unless such private
swimming pool has received a certificate of zoning compliance prior to issuance
of a building permit and provided such pool complies with the following
conditions and requirements.
   (A)   The pool is intended and used primarily for the enjoyment of the
occupants of the principal use of the property.
   (B)   The pool shall be located to the rear of the principal structure and
may not be located closer than seven feet to any lot line of the property on
which it is located.
   (C)   The pool, or the entire lot on which such pool is located, shall be
enclosed by a structure with a minimum height of four feet to prevent
uncontrolled access from the street and from adjacent properties.
   (D)   Any lighting to illuminate the pool area shall be so arranged as to
deflect the light away from the adjoining properties.
   (E)   No person, firm, or corporation shall construct or install a swimming
pool or make any alteration therein or in the appurtenances thereof without
having received an approved certificate of zoning compliance.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.191 OPEN STORAGE AND DISPLAY OF MATERIAL.
   The open storage and display of material and equipment incidental to a
nonresidential use adjacent to a residential zoning district, Planned
Residential District, Planned Unit District, or visible from a public right-of-
way shall only be permitted provided the area used for open storage and display
shall be effectively screened on adjoining sides and public rights-of-way by
means of walls or fences with a 100% opaqueness and is located behind the
building line and not in a required yard. Walls or fences shall be a minimum of
six feet in height without advertising thereon and shall not include chain-link
fences. Walls and fences may be further screened with plantings comprised of
evergreen hedges six feet in height.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.192 PUBLIC NUISANCE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Generally. No land or building in any district shall be used or
occupied in any manner creating dangerous, injurious, noxious, or otherwise
objectionable conditions which could adversely affect the surrounding areas or
adjoining premises, except that any use permitted by this Zoning Code may be
undertaken and maintained if acceptable measures or safeguards to reduce
dangerous and objectionable conditions to acceptable limits are established by
the performance requirements in division (B) through (M) of this section.
   (B)   Fire hazards. Any activity involving the use or storage of flammable
or explosive materials shall be protected by adequate firefighting and fire
prevention equipment and by such safety devices as are normally used in the
handling of any such material. Such hazards shall be kept removed from adjacent
activities to a distance which is compatible with the potential danger
involved.
   (C)   Radioactivity or electrical disturbance. No activity shall emit
dangerous radioactivity at any point, or electrical disturbance adversely
affecting the operation of any equipment at any point than that of the creator
of such disturbance.
   (D)   Noise and vibration. Noise or vibration shall be so controlled that at
the property line on which such noise or vibration is produced it will not be
at a level above that normally perceptible from other development activities in
the area or from the usual street traffic observed at the street right-of-way
line of the lot, except occasional blast or shock required in normal operation
and produced in such manner as not to create a hazard.
   (E)   Toxic and hazardous substances. No toxic substance shall be emitted or
otherwise discharged into the atmosphere, ground, surface waters, or ground
waters. No storage, use, or transport of toxic or hazardous substances shall be
permitted unless such activity is in full compliance with applicable state and
federal environmental protection regulations and the expressed prior written
approval of the Fire Chief.
   (F)   Air pollution. No pollution of air by fly-ash, dust, vapors, odors,
smoke, or other substances shall be permitted which are harmful to health,
animals, vegetation or other property, or which can cause excessive soiling.
   (G)   Glare. No direct or reflected glare shall be permitted which is
visible from any property or from any public street.
   (H)   Erosion. No erosion, by either wind or water, shall be permitted which
will carry objectionable substances onto neighboring properties.
   (I)   Water pollution. Water pollution shall be subject to the requirements
and regulations established by the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency.
   (J)   Trash. The storage of trash and waste materials, including, but not
limited to, discarded household goods, discarded commercial products,
industrial by-products, and other similar materials shall not be visible from
the property line on which such materials are being stored or otherwise placed.
All such materials shall be housed in an appropriate container or enclosure,
excepting trash that is properly placed in an appropriate enclosed container at
an assigned location for regularly scheduled trash pickup. In all cases, there
shall be full compliance with applicable zoning district standards.
   (K)   Enforcement provisions. The Director of Inspection and Engineering or
Planning Commission prior to the issuance of a certificate of zoning compliance
may require the submission of statements and plans indicating the manner in
which dangerous and objectionable elements involved in processing and in
equipment operations are to be eliminated or reduced to acceptable limits and
tolerances.
   (L)   Measurement procedures. Methods and procedures for the determination
of the existence of any dangerous and objectionable elements shall conform to
applicable standard measurement procedures published by the American National
Standards Institute, United States Bureau of Mines, and Ohio EPA.
   (M)   Turf. Turf shall not be higher than eight inches.
   (N)   Abatable nuisance. Upon determination by the Planning Commission or as
sustained by appeal of such a decision to Council, divisions (B) through (M) of
this section shall be considered abatable nuisances and a violation of the
provisions of this Zoning Code.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.193 LAND DEDICATIONS AND IN-LIEU FEES.
   (A)   Mandatory land dedication.  
      (1)   Acreage shall be set aside in all platted subdivisions for the
provision of public areas. Such public areas shall be used as sites for public
parks, open space, and recreational areas. The amount of acreage to be set
aside shall comply with the following schedule:
 
Zoning District Percent of Net Developable Site
R-1             2.5
R-2 and R-3     5.0
R-4 and R-5     7.5
R-6             7.5
AR-1            10.0
PRD             20.0
 
 
      (2)   Such lands may be deeded to the village and thereby developed and
managed by the village or held, developed, and maintained by a private
association, the bylaws and creation of which shall be by approval of the
Village Council as an element of the subdivision platting process. Title to
dedicated land shall be transferred to the village within 60 days of final plat
approval.
   (B)   Review and approval process. The mandatory land dedication requirement
shall serve as a component of the subdivision review process of the village and
regulatory review and approval shall be a consistent part of that process. The
Planning Commission may review and reject the proposed acreage if such site is
not appropriate for the intended use given environmental, technical, or land
use considerations. In such circumstances the Board shall request an
alternative site, which may or may not be provided on-site.
   (C)   Fees in-lieu of dedication. The applicant may request the payment of
fees in-lieu of the total or a portion of the mandatory land dedication to the
Planning Commission which shall make a recommendation to the Village Council
relative to such request. The amount of fees to be paid shall be equal to the
assessed value of the acreage that would have been dedicated to the village
under the land dedication requirement.
   (D)   Payment, deposit, and use of fees. Fees in-lieu of land dedication
shall be paid to the village within 60 days following final plat approval. Such
fees shall be placed in a special fund, the records of which shall be available
for public inspection. Such funds shall only be used by the village for the
acquisition and development of public parks, recreation facilities, and open
space.
   (E)   Additional reservation of public land.
      (1)   Where adopted planning documents recommend sites for public
schools, parks, or other public facilities, including open space, such lands
shall be set in reserve by the owner for a period not to exceed five years.
      (2)   The school district in the case of a recommended school site may
purchase the reserves by the end of the five-year period for the fair market
value as calculated by a current appraisal prepared by a certified appraiser.
The village may purchase the balance of the reserves by the end of the five-
year period following transfer of the dedicated land. The fair market value of
the balance shall be calculated by a current appraisal prepared by a certified
appraiser. Failure to purchase any reserves within the five- year period shall
revert use of the property to the owner.
   (F)   Park fee. A park fee per dwelling unit as established by the Village
Council shall be paid to the village by the developer or builder of any
residential structure prior to issuance of a certificate of zoning compliance.
Such fee shall be deposited in a special fund and expended by the village for
the improvement and purchase of recreational facilities and equipment excluding
maintenance and maintenance equipment.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.194 MOBILE HOMES, MODULAR HOMES, RECREATIONAL AND CAMPING VEHICLES.
   (A)   Mobile homes prohibited. Mobile homes, modular or manufactured homes,
and recreational or camping vehicles, as defined in §
153.012, shall not be a permissible use as an accessory building or principal
building in any zoning district.
   (B)   Nonresidential use of mobile home or trailer. A mobile home or trailer
may be used as a temporary office or building incidental to construction or a
development of the premises on which the mobile home or trailer is located, but
only during the time construction or development is actively underway and for
which a certificate of zoning compliance has been issued for the actual
construction period as indicated therein.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 2002-022, passed 9-16-2002) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.195 KEEPING OF HORSES.
   Horses may be kept in single-family residential districts provided that:
   (A)   Minimum acres required. The minimum acreage on which horses may be
kept shall be five acres;
   (B)   Number limited based on acreage available. There shall not be more
than one horse per two and one-half acres of land;
   (C)   Only mares or geldings. Only mares or geldings may be kept on lots
less than ten acres;
   (D)   Fencing required. Such land shall be fenced so as to securely confine
the animals. Such fencing shall not be located closer to any public right-of-
way or private street than the minimum setback in the district and shall not be
located closer than 15 feet from any other property line;
   (E)   No storage of manure. No storage of manure or dust-producing
substances shall be permitted in any manner or quantity as creates a dangerous,
injurious, noxious, or otherwise objectionable condition;
   (F)   Control of odors required. No odors may be detectable beyond the
property on which such use exists;
   (G)   Building setback requirements. Any building used in connection with
the keeping of horses shall be located at least 50 feet from any property line;
and
   (H)   Use permit required. A use permit shall be issued by the Director to
any applicant meeting the requirements of this section prior to the
commencement of the keeping of horses.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.196 FENCES AND HEDGES.
   (A)   Electrically charged fences prohibited. Electrically charged fences
shall be forbidden in all districts except on sites of more than ten acres used
to confine livestock.
   (B)   Use of barbed wire. Barbed wire may be used only to top standard
security fences in commercial and industrial districts at a height of six feet
or greater, the supports for such barbed wire shall be either vertical or lean
inward above the property of the owner of the fence. Lands used for
agricultural purposes, meeting the requirements of this code, shall be exempt
from this provision.
   (C)   Decorative fences required. Only decorative fences shall be
constructed in front setbacks or side setbacks abutting streets. Decorative
fences shall mean split rail or ornamental iron or other decorative fences as
approved by the Director.
   (D)   Chain link prohibited. Chain link fences shall not be permitted within
front setbacks or side setbacks abutting streets in any district, except by
variance granted by the Board of Zoning and Housing Appeals.
   (E)   Guardrails prohibited. Guardrails shall not be used as fencing.
   (F)   Location in front setbacks. Fences and hedges in front setbacks and/or
side setbacks abutting streets and alleys in any district shall not exceed
three feet in height and shall not obstruct the view of pedestrians or
vehicular traffic or be detrimental to the public safety.
   (G)   Fencing agricultural uses. Lands used for agricultural purposes,
meeting the requirements of this code, shall not place any fence used for the
confinement of the use closer than 15 feet from any public right-of-way or
private street.
   (H)   Height restriction in rear and side yards. Fences in rear setbacks and
side setbacks not abutting streets and alleys shall not exceed six feet in
height in residential districts or 12 feet in height commercial or industrial
districts.
   (I)   Permit required. No fence shall hereafter be erected, constructed,
altered, relocated, or rebuilt until an application has been filed with, and a
permit issued by, the Director.
   (J)   Exemptions for temporary fences. The following temporary fences shall
be exempt from the provisions of this section:
      (1)   Temporary construction fences when such fence is indicated on an
approved site plan;
      (2)   Temporary fences used for special events and shown on an approved
plot plan for the event;
      (3)   Temporary snow fence installed by any government agency; and
      (4)   Temporary fences installed for the protection of the public from
any obvious danger.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.197 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of these provisions is to allow where appropriate
limited, nonresidential activities in residential structures that are
compatible with the neighborhoods in which such structures and related home
occupation activities are located. The standards provided for in this section
are intended to ensure compatibility of home occupations with other permitted
uses and with the residential character of the neighborhood.
   (B)   Permitted use. A home occupation use shall be permitted within a
dwelling unit provided the occupation does not occupy more than 20% of the
gross floor area or 200 square feet of the dwelling unit, whichever is larger,
and provided the following criteria are met. The following requirements shall
apply to permitted home occupation uses.
      (1)   The home occupation shall only be conducted within a principal
structure and shall not be conducted within an accessory use or structure.
      (2)   The external appearance of the principal structure shall not be
altered and the home occupation within the residence shall not be conducted in
a manner which would cause the premises to differ in any way.
      (3)   No more than one nonresident employee shall be engaged in such home
occupation.
      (4)   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical interference
detectable to the normal senses off the lot. In the case of electrical
interference, no equipment or process shall be used which creates visual or
audible interference in any radio or televisions receivers off the premises, or
causes fluctuations in line voltage off the premises.
      (5)   There shall only be limited sales on the premises of goods produced
on the premises.
      (6)   There shall be no external indication of such home occupation other
than one sign, controlled by the sign regulations in this Zoning Code under §§
153.250 through
153.261.
      (7)   There shall be no outside storage of any kind related to such home
occupation.
      (8)   Specialized tutoring or instruction shall be limited to one
individual in the principal structure during the tutoring or instruction.
      (9)   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in greater
volume than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, and any
need for parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall meet
the off-street parking requirements as to use as specified under §§
153.230 through
153.237, and shall not be located in front of the building line.
   (C)   Conditional use. It is recognized that there may exist certain home
occupations that fail to meet the criteria of division (B) of this section, but
which may be appropriate for a residential area provided the following
additional criteria are met through the conditional use procedure of §
153.042, including the requirements therein.
      (1)   Requirements. Home occupation conditional uses shall be limited by
the following criteria and/or any other conditions as determined by the
Planning Commission in order to protect the residential character of the
subject area.
         (a)   There shall be no more than three nonresident employees.
         (b)   The conduct of the home occupation may be approved within a
structure accessory to the principal structure.
         (c)   Sales of commodities not produced on the premises may be
permitted provided such commodities are specified and approved as a part of the
application for a conditional use, and provided the Planning Commission
determines that such sales will not become a detriment to the existing
residential character of the lot or neighborhood through a resulting increase
in traffic, noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical interference
or any other factor resulting in an adverse impact.
         (d)   Organized instruction may be permitted provided the class size
does not exceed six pupils during any one period of instruction, provided the
Planning Commission determines that such organized instruction will not become
a detriment to the existing residential character of the lot or neighborhood
through a resulting increase in traffic, on-street parking, or any other factor
resulting in an adverse impact.
         (e)   No outside storage of any kind associated with a home occupation
conditional use shall be permitted unless it is totally screened from the
adjacent residential lots and the abutting streets.
         (f)   The off-street parking requirements of §§
153.230 through
153.237 apply and such off- street parking area shall not be located in front
of the building line.
      (2)   Validity. For the purposes of this chapter, a home occupation
conditional use ceases to be valid once the premises used for the home
occupation is no longer occupied by the holder of the certificate of zoning
compliance or upon the conduct of a home occupation in a manner not approved by
the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
Cross-reference:
   Off-street parking, see §§
153.230 through
153.237
   Signs, see §§
153.250 through
153.261
§ 153.198 SATELLITE GROUND STATIONS.
   (A)   Zoning certificate required. Prior to construction and installation of
a ground satellite station, a certificate of zoning compliance shall be
required to be issued by the village following compliance by the applicant with
all requirements of this section, §§
153.030 through
153.045, and all other applicable sections of this Zoning Code, as amended.
   (B)   Residential districts. Within residential zoning districts, the
following provisions shall apply to satellite ground stations or other antennas
designed to transmit or receive radio or television signals to or from earth
satellites.
      (1)   Such ground stations or dish antennas shall be for the personal use
of residents and their guests only.
      (2)   Such ground stations or dish antennas shall contain no graphic
message or advertising.
      (3)   Ground-mounted stations or dish antennas shall be considered
accessory structures and shall comply with the following conditions and
requirements in addition to §
153.200:
         (a)   Such stations or dish antennas shall be located to the rear of
the principal building or structure and shall not exceed an above-grade height
of 12 feet.
         (b)   Such stations or dish antennas shall not be located closer than
ten feet to a rear lot line, eight feet from a side lot line, or one foot from
any easement.
         (c)   Such stations or dish antennas shall be mounted in a concrete
base in line with grade and only metal supports of galvanized construction
shall be utilized.
         (d)   Wiring between such stations and any other structure shall be
placed underground.
         (e)   Such stations or dish antennas shall be designed to withstand a
wind force of up to 90 mph without the use of supporting guy wires.
         (f)   Such stations or dish antennas shall be effectively screened
from public view by shrubbery or evergreen trees planted along all visible
perspectives.
      (4)   Roof-mounted stations or dish antennas shall be prohibited.
      (5)   All stations or dish antennas shall be unobtrusive in color or
manufacture. The use of vegetation matching colors where appropriate or mesh
construction is encouraged.
   (C)   Nonresidential districts. Within nonresidential districts, the
following provisions shall apply to satellite ground stations or other antennas
designed to transmit or receive radio or television signals to or from earth
satellites.
      (1)   Such ground stations or dish antennas shall contain no graphic
message or advertising.
      (2)   Ground-mounted stations or dish antennas shall be considered
accessory structures and shall comply with the following conditions and
requirements.
         (a)   Such stations or dish antennas shall be located to the rear of
the principal building or structure and shall not exceed an above-grade height
of 12 feet.
         (b)   Such stations or dish antennas shall not be located closer than
50 feet of a public right- of-way, 30 feet of a side or rear lot line, and not
closer than 50 feet of a lot line in a residential district.
         (c)   Such stations or dish antennas shall be mounted in a concrete
base in line with grade and only metal supports of galvanized construction
shall be utilized.
         (d)   Wiring between such stations and any other structure shall be
placed underground.
         (e)   Such stations or dish antennas shall be designed to withstand a
wind force of up to 90 mph without the use of supporting guy wires.
      (3)   Roof-mounted stations or dish antennas may be permitted within
nonresidential zoning districts, including PUD for nonresidential uses;
however, a conditional use permit must be requested as per §§
153.042 and approval given prior to issuance of a certificate of zoning
compliance.
      (4)   All stations or dish antennas shall be unobtrusive in color or
manufacture. The use of vegetation matching colors where appropriate or mesh
construction is encouraged.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
Cross-reference:
   Accessory uses and structures, see §
153.200
§ 153.199 WIRELESS TELEPHONE FACILITY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Legislative purposes. The purpose of this section is to regulate the
placement, construction, and modification of wireless telecommunication
facilities and their support structures in order to protect the public health,
safety, and welfare, while at the same time not unreasonably interfering with
the development of the competitive wireless telecommunications marketplace in
the Miami Valley Region. Specifically, the purposes of these provisions are:
      (1)   To direct the location of various types of towers and wireless
telecommunications facilities into appropriate areas of the village;
      (2)   To protect residential areas and land uses from potential adverse
impacts of towers and wireless telecommunications facilities;
      (3)   To minimize adverse visual impacts of towers and wireless
telecommunications facilities through careful design, siting, landscaping, and
innovative camouflaging techniques;
      (4)   To promote and encourage shared use/co-location of towers and
antenna support structures as a primary option rather than construction of
additional single-use towers;
      (5)   To avoid potential damage to adjacent properties caused by towers
and wireless telecommunications facilities by ensuring such structures are
soundly designed, constructed, and modified, are appropriately maintained, and
are fully removed;
      (6)   To the greatest extent feasible, ensure that towers and wireless
telecommunications facilities are compatible with surrounding land uses; and
      (7)   To the greatest extent feasible, ensure that towers and wireless
telecommunications facilities are designed in harmony with natural settings and
in a manner consistent with current development patterns.
   (B)   Applicability. All towers, antenna support structures, and wireless
telecommunication facilities, any portion of which are located within the
village, are subject to this section. Except as provided in this section, any
use being made of an existing tower or antenna support structure on the
effective date of this section shall be deemed a nonconforming structure and
allowed to continue, even if in conflict with the terms of this section. Any
tower site that has received approval in the form of a zoning permit by the
village, but has not yet been constructed or located, shall be considered a
nonconforming structure so long as such approval is current and not expired.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANTENNA. Any panel, whip, dish, or other apparatus designed for
communications through the sending and/or receiving of electromagnetic waves,
excluding any support structure other than brackets.
      ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Any building or other structure other than a
tower which can be used for location of wireless telecommunications facilities.
      APPLICANT. Any person that applies for a permit pursuant to this Zoning
Code.
      APPLICATION. The process by which an applicant submits a request and
indicates a desire to be granted a conditional use permit under the provisions
of this Zoning Code. An APPLICATION includes all written documentation, verbal
statements, and representations, in whatever form or forum, made by an
applicant to the village concerning such a request.
      CO-LOCATION. The use of a wireless telecommunication facility by more
than one wireless telecommunications provider.
      DIRECTOR. The Director of Inspection and Engineering, as set forth in the
Village Charter, or his or her designee.
      EMERGENCY. A reasonably unforeseen occurrence with a potential to
endanger personal safety or health, or cause substantial damage to property,
that calls for immediate action.
      ENGINEER. Any engineer licensed by the state.
      EQUIPMENT SHELTER. The structure in which the electronic receiving and
relay equipment for a wireless telecommunications facility is housed.
      FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration and any legally appointed,
designated, or elected agent or successor.
      FCC. The Federal Communications Commission and any legally appointed,
designated, or elected agent or successor.
      MONOPOLE. A support structure constructed to a single, self-supporting
hollow metal tube securely anchored to a foundation.
      TOWER. A self-supporting lattice, guyed, or monopole structure
constructed from grade which supports wireless telecommunications facilities.
The term shall not include amateur radio operator’s equipment, as licensed by
the FCC.
      WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY. Any cables, wires, lines, wave
guides, antennas and any other equipment or facilities associated with the
transmission or reception of communications as authorized by the FCC which a
person seeks to locate or have installed upon a tower antenna support
structure. However, the term shall not include:
         (a)   Any satellite earth station antenna two meters in diameter or
less which is located in an area zoned industrial or commercial;
         (b)   Any satellite earth station antenna one meter or less in
diameter, regardless of zoning category; or
         (c)   Antennas used by amateur radio operators.
      ZONING ORDINANCE. The Zoning Ordinance of the village.
   (D)   Standards applicable to all wireless telecommunication facilities.
      (1)   Construction standards. All wireless telecommunication facilities
and support structures shall be designed in accordance with Telecommunication
Industry Association (TIA) standards and shall be certified by an engineer
licensed in the state to be structurally sound and, at a minimum, in
conformance with Ohio Basic Building Code.
      (2)   Natural resource protection standards. The location of the wireless
telecommunication facility shall comply with all natural resource protection
standards established either in this Zoning Code or in other applicable
regulations, including those for floodplains, wetlands, groundwater protection,
and steep slopes.
      (3)   Historic or architectural standards compliance. Wireless
telecommunications facilities shall not be permitted in any historic district
or on any property listed on the historic inventory.
      (4)   Color and appearance standards. All wireless telecommunication
facilities shall be painted a non-contrasting gray or similar color minimizing
its visibility, unless otherwise required by the Federal Communications
Commission, Federal Aviation Administration, and/or by historical or
architectural standards imposed under this Zoning Code. All appurtenances shall
be aesthetically and architecturally compatible with the surrounding
environment by the means of camouflage deemed acceptable by the Planning
Commission of the village.
      (5)   Advertising prohibited. No advertising is permitted anywhere upon
or attached to the wireless telecommunication facility.
      (6)   Artificial lighting restricted. No wireless telecommunication
facility shall be artificially lit except as required by the Federal Aviation
Administration.
      (7)   Co-location. All wireless telecommunication facilities shall be
subject to the co-location requirements set forth in division (E) of this
section.
      (8)   Abandonment. All wireless telecommunication facilities shall be
subject to the abandonment requirements set forth in division (I) of this
section.
      (9)   Setback from edge of roof. Any wireless telecommunication facility
and its appurtenances permitted on the roof of a building shall be set back one
foot from the edge of the roof for each one foot in height of the wireless
telecommunication facility. However, this setback requirement shall not apply
to antennas that are less than two inches in thickness mounted to the sides of
antenna support structures and do not protrude more than six inches from the
side of such an antenna support structure. This requirement is subject to
change by the Planning Commission of the village upon the review of the photo
simulation provided in compliance with division (J)(3) of this section.
      (10)   Security enclosure required. All towers and equipment shelters
shall be enclosed either completely or individually as determined by the
Planning Commission. No fencing shall be permitted in a residential zone. The
village and co-locators shall have reasonable access. No fence shall be
required on top of a building or other structure if access to the roof or top
of the structure or building is secure.
      (11)   Existing vegetation and buffer plantings. Existing vegetation
(trees, shrubs, and the like) shall be preserved to the maximum extent
possible. Buffer plantings shall be located around the perimeter of the
security enclosure as deemed appropriate by the Planning Commission. An
evergreen screen may be required around the perimeter of the property in lieu
of such buffer plantings.
      (12)   Access control and emergency contact. “No Trespassing” signs shall
be posted around the wireless telecommunications facility, along with a
telephone number of who to contact in the event of an emergency.
   (E)   Co-location requirements.
      (1)   Jurisdiction study of potential public sites. In order to encourage
the location of a wireless telecommunication facility on publicly-owned
property, the Planning Commission shall undertake an identification of
publicly-owned properties that the Planning Commission determines are suitable
for such use. The Planning Commission shall regularly update such
identification and make the results of such available to the public.
      (2)   Exemption from proof of co-location availability. Persons locating
a wireless telecommunication facility upon a publicly-owned property identified
in the study mentioned in division (E)(1) of this section shall be exempted
from the requirements herein regarding presentation of proof that co-location
is not available. However, persons locating a wireless telecommunication
facility on publicly- owned property shall continue to be subject to the
requirements contained in division (E)(4) of this section.
      (3)   Exemption from certain requirements. Persons locating a wireless
telecommunication facility on a publicly-owned property identified by the
Planning Commission to be suitable for such purposes shall be exempt from the
requirements of divisions (F), (G), (H), and (I) of this section.
      (4)   Co-location design required. No new tower shall be constructed in
the village unless such tower is capable of accommodating at least one
additional wireless telecommunication facility owned by another person.
      (5)   Technically suitable space. Authorization for a tower shall be
issued only if there is not technically suitable space reasonably available on
an existing tower or structure within the geographic area to be served.
      (6)   Application requirements. With the permit application, the
applicant shall list the location of every tower, building, or structure within
a reasonably proximity that could support the proposed antenna. The applicant
must demonstrate that a technically suitable location is not reasonably
available on an existing tower, building, or structure within such area. If
another communication tower owned by another party within such area is
technically suitable, the applicant must show that an offer was made to the
owner of such tower to co-locate an antenna on a tower owned by the applicant
on reciprocal terms within the village, and the offer was not accepted. If such
co-location offer has not been attempted by the applicant, then such other
tower is presumed to be reasonably available.
   (F)   Wireless telecommunication facilities in residential districts and
Planned Residential Districts (PRD).
      (1)   Permitted principal use. No wireless telecommunication facility is
permitted as a principal use upon a lot.
      (2)   Accessory use. A wireless telecommunication facility may be
permitted as an accessory use upon a lot, subject to division (F)(3) of this
section.
      (3)   Conditional use. The following wireless telecommunication
facilities are permitted as a conditional use upon a lot, subject to the
following requirements:
         (a)   Tower. A wireless telecommunications tower may be an accessory
use to a public or institutional use within a residential zoning district,
provided the Planning Commission finds the following standards have been met:
            1.   Minimum lot size for principal use. The minimum lot size for
principal use for which the tower is accessory shall be five acres.
            2.   Minimum setback from property lines and residential
structures. The minimum setbacks and yard requirements shall be established by
the Planning Commission.
            3.   Maximum height. The height of such tower shall be subject to
approval by the Planning Commission and be the minimum height necessary.
            4.   Equipment shelter. The minimum setbacks, height limits, bulk
requirements, and screening standards shall be established by the Planning
Commission during the conditional use process. Such shelter shall not be
located above ground in any required front or side yard.
         (b)   Antenna. The Planning Commission may approve the location of an
antenna extending more than 20 feet above the roof of an existing building or
structure.   An antenna for a wireless telecommunication facility may be
attached to an existing residential building four or more stories in height or
to an existing nonresidential structure subject to the following conditions.
            1.   Roof setback. The pole structure supporting such antenna shall
be setback one foot distance from the edge of such roof for each one foot of
height above such roof. This requirement shall not apply to antennas two inches
or less in thickness without a supporting pole structure.
            2.   Separate equipment shelter. If the applicant proposes to
locate the telecommunications equipment in a separate equipment shelter, not
located in or attached to the building, the equipment shelter shall comply with
the accessory building regulations of the district. Such shelter shall not be
located above ground in any required front or side yard.
            3.   Required buffer. A buffer shall be planted in accordance with
division (D)(11) of this section.
            4.   Vehicular access. Vehicular access to the equipment shelter
shall be via the existing circulation system and be paved with asphalt or
concrete.
         (c)   Conditional use application and approval procedure. The
procedure for conditional use application and procedure is set forth in §
153.042.
   (G)   Wireless telecommunication facilities in Suburban Office (SO),
Neighborhood Commercial (NC), General Commercial (GC), Planned Commercial
Development (PCD) and Planned Unit Development (PUD) Districts.
      (1)   Permitted principal use. Wireless telecommunication facilities are
not permitted as a principal use upon a lot.
      (2)   Accessory use. A wireless telecommunication facility may be
permitted as an accessory use upon a lot, subject to division (G)(3) of this
section.
      (3)   Conditional use. The following wireless telecommunication
facilities are permitted as a conditional use upon a lot, subject to the
following requirements.
         (a)   Tower.
            1.   Minimum setback from property lines. The minimum setbacks and
yard requirements for principal structures shall apply.
            2.   Minimum setback from residential structure. No tower shall be
located a distance less than its height from a structure used as a residence.
            3.   Maximum height. The height of such tower shall be subject to
approval by the Planning Commission and be the minimum height necessary.
            4.   Equipment shelter. The minimum setbacks, height limits, bulk
requirements, and screening standards shall be established by the Planning
Commission during conditional use process. Such shelter shall not be located
above ground in any required front or side yard.
         (b)   Antenna. The antenna shall not be attached to a residential
structure unless such structure is four or more stories in height.
         (c)   Conditional use application and approval procedures. The
procedure for conditional use application and procedure is set forth in §
153.042.
   (H)   Wireless telecommunication facilities in Limited Manufacturing (LM)
and Planned Industrial (PID) Districts.
      (1)   Permitted principal use. No wireless telecommunication facilities
are permitted as a principal use upon a lot.
      (2)   Accessory use. The following wireless telecommunication facilities
may be permitted as an accessory use upon a lot, subject to division (H)(3) of
this section.
      (3)   Conditional use. The following wireless telecommunication
facilities are permitted as a conditional use upon a lot, subject to the
following requirements.
         (a)   Tower.
            1.   Maximum height. The height of such tower shall be subject to
approval by the Planning Commission and be the minimum height necessary.
            2.   Minimum setback from property lines. The minimum setbacks and
yard requirements for principal structures shall apply.
            3.   Minimum setback from residential structure. No tower shall be
located a distance less than its height from a structure used as a residence.
            4.   Equipment shelter. The minimum setbacks, height limits, bulk
requirements, and screening standards shall be established by the Planning
Commission during the conditional use process. Such shelter shall not be
located above ground in any required front or side yard.
         (b)   Antenna. The antenna shall not be attached to a residential
structure unless such structure is four or more stories in height.
   (I)   Abandonment of tower.
      (1)   Required notification. All providers utilizing towers shall present
a report to the Director notifying him or her of any tower facility located in
the village whose use will be discontinued and the date this use will cease.
Such report shall be filed with the Director 30 days prior to the cessation
date. If at any time the use of the facility is discontinued for 180 days, the
Zoning Inspector may declare the facility abandoned. The 180-day period
excludes any dormancy period between construction and the initial use of the
facility. The owner/operator of the facility will receive written notice from
the Zoning Inspector and be instructed to either reactivate use of the facility
within 180 days, or dismantle and remove the facility. If reactivation or
dismantling does not occur, the village will either remove the facility or will
contract to have the facility removed and assess the owner/operator the costs.
      (2)   Required notice to owner. The Director must provide the tower owner
30-day notice and an opportunity to be heard before the Board of Zoning Appeals
before initiating such action. After such notice has been provided, the
Director shall have the authority to initiate proceedings to either acquire the
tower and any appurtenances attached thereto at the current fair market value
at that time, or in the alternative, order the demolition of the tower and all
appurtenances.
      (3)   Right to public hearing by owner. The Director shall provide the
tower owner with the right to a public hearing before the Board of Zoning
Appeals, which public hearing shall follow the 30-day notice required in
division (I)(2) of this section. All interested parties shall be allowed an
opportunity to be heard at the public hearing.
      (4)   Order of abatement or demolition. After a public hearing is held
pursuant to division (I)(3) of this section, the Director may order the
abatement or demolition of the tower. The Director may require licensee to pay
for all expenses necessary to acquire or demolish the tower.
   (J)   Application and review requirements.
      (1)   Required information for applications. All applications for
wireless telecommunication facilities, including towers, shall include the
information required under this section.
      (2)   Plot plan required. When a proposed wireless telecommunications
facility or antenna support structure is to include a new tower, a plot plan at
a scale of not less than one inch equals 100 feet shall be submitted. This plot
plan shall indicate all building and land uses within 200 feet of the proposed
facility. Aerial photos and/or renderings may augment the plot plan.
      (3)   Photo simulations required. Photo simulations of the proposed
wireless telecommunication facility from affected residential properties and
public rights-of-way taken at designated locations shall be provided.
      (4)   Proof why nonresidential tower location not feasible. In applying
for authorization to erect a tower within any residential district, the
applicant must present sufficient evidence as to why it is not technically
feasible to locate such tower in a more appropriate nonresidential zone. This
evidence shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission. If the Planning
Commission refutes the evidence, then the tower is not permitted.
      (5)   Technical necessity. The applicant shall demonstrate that the
telecommunication tower must be located where it is proposed in order to
provide adequate coverage to the applicant’s service area. There shall be an
explanation of why a tower and the proposed site is technically necessary.
      (6)   Review by radio frequency engineer. The evidence submitted by the
applicant shall be reviewed by a radio frequency engineer, who will support or
refute the evidence.
      (7)   Land owner support and access. Where the wireless telecommunication
facility is located on a property with another principal use, the applicant
shall present documentation that the owner of the property supports the
application and vehicular access is provided to the facility.
      (8)   Required site and landscaping plan. The applicant shall present a
site and landscaping plan showing the following:
         (a)   Specific placement of the wireless telecommunication facility on
the site;
         (b)   The location of existing structures, trees, and other
significant site features;
         (c)   Type and locations of plant materials used to screen the
facilities; and
         (d)   The proposed color of the facilities.
      (9)   Co-location and removal agreement. The applicant shall present
signed statements indicating that:
         (a)   The applicant agrees to allow for the potential co-location of
additional wireless telecommunication facilities by other providers on the
applicant’s structure or within the same site location; and
         (b)   The applicant agrees to remove the facility within 180 days
after its use is discontinued.
      (10)   Denial by jurisdiction. Any decision to deny a request to place,
construct, or modify a wireless telecommunication facility and/or tower shall
be in writing and supported by evidence contained in a written record.
   (K)   Variances. Any request to deviate from any of the requirements of this
section shall require approval of a variance in conformance with the procedures
set forth in §
153.043.
(Ord. 98-122, passed 5-4-1998)
§ 153.200 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Accessory uses and structures permitted. Unless otherwise specified,
accessory uses and structures shall be permitted on a lot in a residential
zoning district in association with a principal use or structure provided the
accessory use or structure meets the requirements of this section and the
development standards of the applicable residential zoning district.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use of land or of a structure or building
or portion thereof customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use
of land or structure and located on the same lot with such principal use or
structure.
         (a)   Garages, porches, decks, and other similar features that are
physically attached to a dwelling structure shall not be considered accessory
structures in all residential districts.
         (b)   In all residential districts, decks are permitted within ten
feet of the principal building, this requirement superseding division (D)(1) of
this section as to same.
   (C)   Permit required. A permit or certificate of zoning compliance shall be
issued prior to the erection, addition, or alteration of an accessory structure
located on any lot in conjunction with a permitted principal use.
   (D)   Residential location, exterior, size, and maintenance.
      (1)   Location. Accessory uses and structures shall be located completely
to the rear of the principal structure and shall be no closer than ten feet
from any part of the principal structure. Accessory uses and structures shall
meet the rear and side yard setback requirements of the applicable residential
zoning district. Accessory uses and structures shall not be located within a
recorded easement.
      (2)   Exterior. In order to protect property values and encourage
neighborhood stability, an accessory structure shall have an exterior which
meets this standard and is compatible in appearance to the principal building
on the parcel or lot.
      (3)   Area. The maximum permitted area of an accessory structure placed
on a lot in a residential zoning district shall be based on the following lot
categories on which the accessory structure is to be located.
         (a)   Lot size two acres or less. An accessory structure shall be no
larger than 720 square feet, shall contain no more than one story nor shall it
exceed a total height of 15 feet as measured from the floor to the top of the
roof, and no door serving the accessory structure shall exceed nine feet in
height.
         (b)   Lot size over two acres but less than four acres. An accessory
structure shall be no larger than 1,200 square feet and shall not exceed a
height of 25 feet as measured from the floor to the top of the roof.
         (c)   Lot size four or more acres. An accessory structure shall be no
larger than 1,440 square feet and shall not exceed a height of 25 feet as
measured from the floor to the top of the roof.
      (4)   Maintenance. Accessory uses and structures shall be maintained in
good condition and kept secure from the deteriorating effect of natural
elements.
   (E)   Commercial/industrial location, exterior, and maintenance.
      (1)   Location. Accessory uses and structures shall be located completely
to the rear of the principal structure and shall be no closer than ten feet
from any part of the principal structure. Accessory uses and structures shall
meet the rear and side yard setback requirements of the applicable zoning
district. Accessory uses and structures shall not be located within a recorded
easement.
      (2)   Exterior. In order to protect property values and encourage
neighborhood stability, an accessory structure shall have an exterior which
meets this standard and is compatible in appearance to the principal building
on the parcel or lot.
      (3)   Maintenance. Accessory uses and structures shall be maintained in
good condition and kept secure from the deteriorating effect of natural
elements.
      (4)   Site plan required. Accessory uses and structures shall be
indicated on an approved site in conformance with the requirements of §§
153.060 through
153.067 
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
Cross-reference:
   Historic and architectural review, see §§
153.080 through
153.094
   Swimming pools, see §
153.190
§ 153.201 BED AND BREAKFAST INNS.
   (A)   Purpose. Bed and breakfast inns are unique semi-commercial operations
that adapt a residential environment into a lodging concept limited in scope
and operation. The regulations presented here provide a systematic set of
requirements to ensure that such operations, if compatible for a residential or
commercial area, will not adversely impact adjacent uses as a result of the
commercial aspects of the facility. Bed and breakfast inns shall be subordinate
to the principal use of a single-family dwelling. The intent is not to provide
an opportunity for the establishment of an intensive commercial lodging
business. An intensive commercial lodging business would be permitted within a
traditional commercial or planned commercial zoning district.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BED AND BREAKFAST INN. An owner-occupied residential single-family,
detached structure wherein lodging and breakfast only are provided to transient
guests for compensation in accordance with the development standards of this
chapter. The provision of lodging and breakfast shall be subordinate to the
principal use of the structure.
   (C)   Submittal requirements. 
      (1)   A bed and breakfast inn is included as a permitted or conditional
use in those zoning districts where noted in this chapter.
      (2)   As a permitted use, an application for a certificate of zoning
compliance will be required and the applicant shall provide a site plan showing
existing improvements, floor plan illustrating the proposed operation, a site
plan indicating all new improvements, and any additional information as
required by the Zoning Director. As a conditional use, the applicant will be
required to follow the conditional use requirements of §
153.042.
      (3)   In submitting an application for conditional use permit, the
applicant shall provide a site plan showing existing improvements, floor plan
illustrating the proposed operation, a site plan indicating all new
improvements, and any additional information as required by the Planning
Commission.
   (D)   Development standards.
      (1)   Single-family, detached dwelling. Bed and breakfast inns shall only
be permitted as a conditional use in single-family, detached dwellings.
      (2)   Guest rooms. There shall be no more than four separate guest rooms
within a single-family dwelling that are utilized by bed and breakfast guests
nor more than 25% of a dwelling’s net floor area, whichever is greater. A guest
room shall contain no less than 100 square feet of living space, not including
closets, for two guests and 30 square feet for each additional guest up to a
total of four guests per room.
      (3)   Owner/operator. The owner/operator of the bed and breakfast shall
live full-time on the inn’s premises. Such owner/operator shall be the owner of
record of no less than 50% interest of the property in question.
      (4)   Approval of fire and health officers. Written approval from fire
and health officers shall be required for each conditional use application
requesting approval for a bed and breakfast inn. Each guest room shall contain
a separate installed smoke detector alarm approved by the fire officer. No
premises shall be utilized for a bed and breakfast inn unless there are at
least two separate exits to the outdoors.
      (5)   Meals. No more than one meal shall be served to each paying guest
of the bed and breakfast inn and that meal shall be breakfast.
      (6)   Consecutive nights. A paying guest may stay at a bed and breakfast
inn for not more than seven consecutive nights at any single visit nor more
than a total of 28 nights in any given year.
      (7)   Kitchen facilities. Only one kitchen facility shall be permitted
per structure for which a conditional use is granted to operate a bed and
breakfast inn. No cooking facilities shall be permitted in individual guest
quarters.
      (8)   Bathrooms. A minimum of one full bathroom, including shower,
toilet, and sink, shall be required for every two guest rooms to be available
for the exclusive use of bed and breakfast paying guests. Bed and breakfast
inns shall be serviced by public sanitary sewer and water service.
      (9)   Guest register. A guest register listing the name, address, phone
number, and dates of stay of all paying guests shall be maintained by the
owner/operator and shall be made available for inspection by village officials.
      (10)   Special gatherings. Rental of the bed and breakfast inn for
special gatherings such as wedding receptions and parties shall be prohibited
in all residential zoning districts or properties adjacent to a residential
zoning district.
      (11)   Business license. A business license shall be required to be
obtained from the village.
      (12)   Public nuisance. Bed and breakfast inns shall not be permitted and
a conditional use shall be revoked or suspended by Village Council whenever the
operation has been found by the Director to conflict with or violate public
nuisance regulations under §
153.192.
      (13)   Employees. No more than two individuals who are nonresidents of
the dwelling may be employed in the operation of a bed and breakfast inn,
whether or not compensated.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
Cross-reference:
   Conditional use permits, see §
153.042
   Off-street parking requirement, see §§
153.230 through
153.237
   Signs, see §§
153.250 through
153.261
§ 153.202 RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation in charge of any premises within the
village, whether as owner, tenant, lessee, occupant, or otherwise, shall allow
in any way or permit the placement of permanent or portable recreational
equipment, including, but not limited to, basketball goals, backboards, skate
ramps, hockey nets, or soccer nets, in the public right-of-way, including the
sidewalk, driveway apron, tree lawn, and roadway.
   (B)   It shall be established as the procedure that if any person violates
the above prohibition, the Village Manager, or his or her designee, shall
provide a written notice to said person or the designee, the person in charge,
who shall remove the equipment from the right-of-way within 24 hours. This
written notice shall be served upon the person in charge, either personally or
by leaving a written notice at his or her usual place of residence, or by
certified mail addressed to his or her last known address. Said notice shall
serve to put the recipient on notice with respect to the requirements of the
referenced sections of the code and obviate the need for additional notice
within 365 days of the date of the notice.
   (C)   If the person in charge fails to remove the equipment from the right-
of-way, he or she shall be charged with a minor misdemeanor under this section.
On each offense, the village may cause the equipment to be removed from the
right-of-way, and the person in charge shall be responsible for all removal and
recovery costs.
(Ord. 2005-054, passed - -2005) Penalty, see §
153.999
HEIGHT, AREA AND YARD MODIFICATIONS
§ 153.215 HEIGHT MODIFICATIONS.
   The height limitations stipulated elsewhere in this Zoning Code shall not
apply to the following:
   (A)   Farm buildings, churches, architectural features, and similar
structures. Barns, silos, or other farm buildings or structures on farms;
church spires, belfries, cupolas, and domes; monuments; chimneys, flagpoles;
parapet walls extending not more than four feet above the limiting height of
the building; or
   (B)   Elevator penthouses, water tanks, and similar structures. Elevator
penthouses, water tanks, monitors, and scenery lofts, provided the height of
any such structure doesn’t exceed 50% of the corresponding street lot line
frontage; monuments, grain elevators, conveyers, derricks, gas holders, or
other structures and mechanical appurtenances where the manufacturing process
requires a greater height and provided no such structure is visible from a
public right-of-way.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.216 YARD PROJECTIONS.
   The yard space required for a use or structure shall, during its life,
remain free of all uses or occupancies except as follows:
   (A)   Landscaping shall be permitted in any required yard, or along the edge
of any yard, provided that no fence or wall, unless decorative, no higher than
three feet in height except as required in §§
153.275 through
153.281, and not located so as to reduce visibility, shall be located between a
public right-of-way and a front building line. Such fencing shall not include
chain link fencing.
   (B)   Eaves, cornices, canopies, window sills, belt courses, and any similar
architectural feature may project into any required yard a distance not to
exceed three feet.
   (C)   Bay windows, balconies, uncovered porches and chimneys may project
beyond the front building line or into a required rear yard space a distance
not to exceed five feet.
   (D)   Driveways shall be permitted in required yards, but shall be three
feet or more from any property line, except where such driveways are developed
jointly as a common drive to adjoining lots.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.217 LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS; PRIVATE SANITARY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Any other regulations of this Zoning Code notwithstanding or as
otherwise determined by the applicable County Board of Health, in any district
where public water and sanitary sewer facilities are not immediately
accessible, the lot area per single-family dwelling and lot frontage
requirements otherwise specified for residential uses shall be increased as
follows:
      (1)   Sewerage and water not available. Where both public sanitary
sewerage and public water supply are not accessible:
         (a)   Minimum lot area: one acre; and
         (b)   Minimum lot frontage: 125 feet.
      (2)   Sewerage not available. Where public water supply is accessible and
private connections will be made, but where public sanitary sewerage is not
accessible:
         (a)   Minimum lot area: one acre; and
         (b)   Minimum lot frontage: 125 feet.
   (B)   Residential structures containing two or more dwelling units shall not
be rezoned, shall not be issued a certificate of zoning compliance, nor shall
be issued a building permit without access to public sanitary sewer and water
facilities.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.218 ASSIGNED YARDS FOR ARRANGEMENT OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)   As an alternative method of determining the minimum requirement of
yard space for the arrangement of two or more structures on the same lot or the
arrangement of structures on separate lots of the same ownership or with
agreement between owners, the following requirements may be used:
      (1)   Determination of assigned yards. The assigned yard (typically
diamond-shaped) shall be the area bounded by lines passing through points that
are located by the following procedure:
         (a)   The outline of the structure shall be a quadrangle described by
lines established by the projection of the outermost faces of the structure.
         (b)   If a wing, bay, or other section of the structure is 25% or less
of the linear dimension of a projected face or is of ten feet or more
difference in height, then a quadrangle and/or height as determined above may
be described separately. If a face of the structure is other than straight,
then the projection of such a face shall be a line through the outermost point
of the face, such line being parallel to the projection of the structure’s
front face.
         (c)   The points shall be established on a perpendicular bisector of
each side of the quadrangle at a distance from such side equal to the sum of
the length of the side and height of the structure divided by two.
      (2)   Relationship of assigned yards. The assigned yard of a structure
shall not be occupied by any other structure, except accessory structures on
the same lot.
   (B)   Structures adjacent to property of another ownership shall comply with
the yard requirements prescribed in relation to the lot line except that if the
adjacent property is developed or its proposed structure is determined and with
written consent of the adjacent property owner, then assigned yards may be used
to establish the arrangement between the structures.
   (C)   The assigned yard shall not extend into a street right-of-way, except
that if a street is abutted by property of the same ownership or with agreement
between owners for its full extent between intersections, then the assigned
yard may be extended to the centerline of the right-of-way, except that the
structure shall not be closer than ten feet to the existing or proposed right-
of-way, whichever is greater.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 153.230 OFF-STREET PARKING GENERALLY.
   (A)   Surfaced off-street automobile parking constructed in accordance with
the standards set forth in this chapter, subject to §
153.233, shall be provided on any lot on which any of the following uses are
hereafter established and are intended for use by the public, whether as
customers, employees, or residents of a use or uses. Off-street loading and
vehicle storage space shall be provided for the handling of materials and
products of commercial and industrial uses. Such off-street parking, loading,
and vehicle storage spaces shall be provided with vehicular access to a
publicly dedicated street or alley.
   (B)   Off-street parking facilities as required by this chapter shall be
used solely for the parking of motor vehicles in operating condition by
patrons, occupants, or employees of the premises.
   (C)   Such required facilities, additional space provided, and access drives
thereto, including required curb-cuts, shall be sloped and constructed to
provide adequate drainage of the area; surfaced as required herein; free of
weeds, debris, and overgrowth and maintained in such a manner that no dust will
be produced by continuous use. The design and construction of all such
facilities shall be subject to approval by the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
Cross-reference:
   Landscaping, see §§
153.275 through
153.281
   Nonconformance, see §
153.044
   Parking within the required setback, see §
153.141
   Subdivision regulations, see
Chapter 152
Statutory reference:
   Off-street parking facilities, see R.C. §§ 717.05 et seq.
§ 153.231 DIMENSIONS.
   (A)   Parking spaces. Minimum area and dimensions exclusive of driveways and
aisles as follows:
 
Type of Parking   Minimum Width (Ft.) Minimum Length (Ft.) Minimum Area (Sq.
Space                                                      Ft.)
90-degree parking 9                   18                   162
Parallel parking  9                   23                   207
60-degree parking 9                   18                   162
45-degree parking 9                   18                   162
Handicapped       11*                 18                   288
accessible
*   11 feet wide plus required adjacent five-foot wide aisle
 
   (B)   Parking aisles. Minimum widths as follows:
 
Type of Parking                   Minimum Aisle Width (Ft.)
90-degree parking                 22
Angle parking                     18
Parallel parking on one-way drive 14
Handicapped accessible requires an adjacent five-foot side aisle
 
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.232 SCHEDULE OF PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   The number of off-street parking spaces required shall be as set forth
in this section. For uses not specifically named in this herein, the
requirement shall be the same as required for a listed use similar in nature,
as determined by the Director.
   (B)   One disabled accessible parking space conforming to design parameters
set forth herein shall be provided for each 25 parking spaces or less required
as part of this chapter.
      (1)   For all areas except Limited Commercial Overlay District (LC):
Use Required Parking Space
Use                                           Required Parking Space
Antiques sales, craft shop                    1 for each 500 square feet of
                                              building floor space
Automobile service station                    1 for each 2 pumps plus 2 for
                                              each service bay
Automobile repairs, car wash                  1 for each 200 square feet of
                                              building floor space
                                              1 parking space for each 300
                                              square feet of building floor
Automobile sales rooms, new and used car lots space plus 1 parking space for
                                              each 3,000 square feet of open
                                              lot area devoted to the sale or
                                              display of motor vehicles
Assembly hall, club room, or other amusement  1 for each 1,000 square feet of
area with or without fixed seating area       building floor space
Banks, savings and loans, business, and       1 for each 500 square feet of
administrative offices                        building floor space
Bed and breakfast inns                        1 for each guest room plus 1 for
                                              each dwelling unit
                                              4 for each alley, court or
Bowling alleys, tennis courts, or similar     similar activity area, plus
place of intensive public activity            additional space for
                                              supplementary uses
Business, technical and trade school,         1 for each 2 students
college, and university
Dance halls and assembly for halls without    1 for each 100 square feet of
fixed seats, exhibition halls except church   building floor space used for
assembly rooms in conjunction with auditorium assembly or dancing
Day care centers                              2 for each classroom but not less
                                              than 6 per center
Drive-in or fast-food restaurants, with       1 for each 75 square feet of
seating                                       building floor space
Drive-in or fast-food restaurants, without    1 for each 150 square feet of
seating                                       building floor space
Driving range                                 2 for each 3 playing locations
Dwellings other than multi-family             2 for each dwelling unit
Elderly multi-family housing                  1.25 for each dwelling unit
                                              1 for each teacher and staff
                                              member; plus 1 for each 20
Elementary and middle schools                 students; plus 1 space per 400
                                              square feet of administrative
                                              office
Funeral homes, mortuaries                     1 for each 150 square feet of
                                              building floor space
Furniture and appliance stores, household     1 for each 400 square feet of
equipment furniture repair shop               building or floor space
Golf course                                   7 for each hole plus 1 space for
                                              each 2 employees
                                              1 space per teacher/staff; plus 1
High school                                   space per 5 students; plus 1
                                              space per 400 square feet of
                                              administrative office
Hospitals                                     1.5 for each bed
                                              1 for each 5-person capacity (1
                                              person/1,000 gallons of pool
Indoor swimming pool or natatorium            capacity) plus 1 for each 4 seats
                                              or 30 square feet of seating
                                              floor area
Indoor sales exclusively of aircraft,         1 for each 1,000 square feet of
watercraft, lumber, plants and furniture      display area
Libraries, museums, or art galleries          1 for each 400 square feet of
                                              building floor space
                                              1 for 2 employees on combined
Manufacturing, warehousing, wholesaling, or   work shift, plus 1 per 1,000
similar establishments                        square feet of building floor
                                              space
Medical and dental offices and clinics        1 for each 150 square feet of
                                              building floor space
Miniature golf course                         2 spaces for each hole plus 1 for
                                              each 2 employees
Motels and hotels (not including restaurant   1 for each living or sleeping
facilities)                                   unit plus space for supplementary
                                              uses
Multi-family residential                      2.5 for each dwelling unit
Office buildings                              1 space per 500 feet of building
                                              floor space
Outdoor display and sales                     1 for each 1,000 square feet of
                                              display area
                                              1 for each 5-person capacity (1
Outdoor swimming pool                         person/500 gallons) plus space
                                              for supplementary uses
Personal services such as barber shop or      1 for each 80 square feet of
beauty shop                                   building floor space, a minimum
                                              of four spaces
Recreational uses not elsewhere specified     1 for each 3 patrons
Restaurants and bars                          1 for each 100 square feet of
                                              building floor space
                                              3 for first 1,000 square feet
Retail sales or services not elsewhere        plus 1 for each additional 200
specified                                     square feet of building floor
                                              space
Sanitariums, convalescent homes, children’s 1 for each 2 beds
homes
Service-related uses such printing or         1 for each 2 employees plus 1 for
plumbing shops                                every 2 vehicles used for service
                                              or delivery
Shopping centers                              6 for each 1,000 square feet of
                                              building floor space
Sports arenas, auditoriums, theaters,
assembly halls, churches, or similar place    1 for each 4 seats
with fixed seating
 
      (2)   Schedule of parking spaces for Limited Commercial Overlay District
(LC):
 
Use                            Required Parking Space
Dwellings                      2 spaces per living unit
Office, retail, and commercial 1 space per 500 square feet of building floor
establishments                 space
Other uses above               As listed in the schedule
 
   (C)   Where two or more uses are provided on the same lot or in the same
building or structure, including principal and supplementary uses, the total
number of spaces required shall equal or exceed the sum of their individual
requirements unless a joint use parking facilities plan has been approved by
the Planning Commission as set forth in this section.
   (D)   If the computation of the number of required parking spaces results in
fractional parts thereof, the number of spaces required shall be the next
highest whole number.
   (E)   Whenever a building or structure is changed in use or constructed or
enlarged in gross floor area, by number of employees, by number of dwelling
units, by seating capacity or otherwise after the effective date of this
chapter such as to create a requirement under this chapter for an increase in
the number of existing parking spaces, such spaces shall be provided on the
basis of the enlargement or change.
   (F)   In lieu of providing all or any part of the permanently maintained
parking space within a Limited Commercial Overlay (LC) District, as required in
this chapter, a sum of money may be contributed to the “Limited Commercial
District Public Parking Fund”. The amount of the contribution shall be
calculated by multiplying the required number of spaces with fractional
increments rounded to the next highest number, as heretofore provided, times a
unit cost of each parking space as specified by an ordinance of Council. All
funds contributed to the Limited Commercial District Parking Fund shall be used
for the purpose of providing and managing public parking facilities in the
Limited Commercial Overlay District.
      (1)   Creation of Parking Fund. There is hereby designated a Limited
Commercial District Parking Fund for the purpose of receiving a contribution of
$5 per month, per deferred parking space, in accordance with this section.
      (2)   Purpose of Fund. All funds contributed to the Limited Commercial
District Parking Fund shall be used for the purpose of providing and managing
public parking facilities in the Limited Commercial Overlay District.
      (3)   Interest earned. Any interest earned from this Fund shall be posted
to the General Fund pursuant to R.C. § 5705.10.
      (4)   Designation of Fund. The designation of the Fund established by
this division shall be No. B21.
   (G)   Where two or more uses are provided on the same lot, including
principal and supplementary uses; or where an owner own multiple contiguous
lots; the total number of parking spaces required in this section may be
reduced by up to 50% when a joint use parking plan has been review and approved
by the Planning Commission. Such plan shall conform to the following.
      (1)   The plan shall clearly identify the uses involved in the sharing
arrangement, and shall clearly indicate all of the applicable information
required in this subchapter.
      (2)   The applicant must clearly demonstrate that the hours of operation
and/or scheduling of facility usage are such that each use meets the
requirements of this section during its hours of operation or use.
      (3)   Joint use parking facilities shall be located no more 500 feet from
each use served by the facilities.
      (4)   Any change in use of the activities served by a joint use parking
facility will be deemed an amendment to the “Joint Use Parking Facility Plan”
and will require Planning Commission review and approval.
      (5)   The Planning Commission shall review and approve all joint use
parking facility plans, and may place such conditions upon the plans as it
deems necessary to ensure that adequate off-street parking spaces will be
provided for all involved uses. Any violations of these conditions will nullify
the approved “Joint Use Parking Facilities Plan”.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 96-173, passed 11-18-1996)
§ 153.233 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   Every parcel of land hereafter used as a public or private off-street
parking area, including a commercial parking lot and automobile or trailer
sales lot, shall be developed and maintained in accordance with the following
requirements.
   (A)   Minimum distance. No part of any parking area for more than five
vehicles shall be closer than 20 feet to any dwelling unit, school, hospital,
or other institution for human care located on an abutting or adjoining lot,
unless separated by a solid wood privacy fence or other approved constructed
screen of between four and six feet in height.
   (B)   Location relative to use.
      (1)   Subject to division (B)(2) of this section, off-street parking
facilities shall be located on the same lot as the structure or use served,
except that a parking facility providing the sum of parking space required of
several uses may be provided contiguous and in common to the several structures
and uses served.
      (2)   Parking spaces may be located on a lot other than that containing
the principal use; provided, that such an arrangement be evidenced by a writing
satisfactory to the Law Director as to the enforceability and transferability
of the right; and provided, that such parking is within 500 feet of the
principal use; and subject to meeting all applicable requirements of this
chapter.
   (C)   Parking lot layout. A parking lot layout and striping plan shall be
submitted for approval. All parking areas having a capacity over 20 vehicles
shall be striped with single lines 12 inches both sides of center between
stalls to facilitate in and out movement. Whenever a parking lot extends to a
property line or where the extension of a vehicle beyond the front line of the
parking space would interfere with drive or aisle access, wheel blocks or other
devices shall be used to restrict such extension. Handicapped accessible spaces
shall conform to the Americans with Disabilities Act Guidelines (ADAG).
   (D)   Surfacing. All off-street parking areas shall be graded for proper
drainage and surfaced with concrete, asphaltic concrete, premixed asphalt
pavement, blacktop, or brick so as to provide a durable and dustless surface.
Off-street parking area designs shall be reviewed and approved by the Village
Engineer prior to issuance of a certificate of zoning compliance.
   (E)   Illumination. Any parking lot intended to be used during non-daylight
hours shall be illuminated. Illumination of parking lots shall be so arranged
as to reflect light away from adjacent properties and shall provide not less
than two and one-half footcandles at the paved surface.
   (F)   Vehicular access. All parking areas shall be provided with direct
vehicular access to a street or alley abutting the property upon which the
parking area is provided or to an adjacent parking area.
   (G)   Pavement markings. All pavement markings for parking stalls shall
conform to the Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices, latest
revisions, current revisions, for materials and color.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.234 ACCESS DRIVES.
   The frequency of access points along thoroughfares in the village is to be
minimized to reduce vehicle and pedestrian conflict and improve traffic flow.
Access drives (driveways) leading to and from a street shall be developed
according to the following standards.
   (A)   Width. An access drive serving a single-family residence shall be a
minimum of ten feet in width. Access drive entrances at a street shall be a
minimum of 18 feet in width. All access drives shall not exceed 25 feet in
width, except at curb returns.
   (B)   Spacing. The following standards shall apply to determining the
permitted spacing of access drives. Street classifications are based upon the
village’s Thoroughfare Plan, as amended, and interpretation by the Village
Engineer relative to street classification.
      (1)   For all arterials and collectors, the following minimum spacing
related to posted speed limit shall be required between adjacent access drives:
 
Posted Highway Speed (mph) Minimum Spacing (Ft.)
25                         105
30                         125
35                         150
40                         185
45                         230
50                         275
 
      (2)   For nonresidential uses on local streets, the minimum distance
between access drives shall be 25 feet.
      (3)   For all arterials, access drives shall be located no closer than
150 feet to an intersection.
   (C)   Side lot lines. An access drive, exclusive of curb returns, shall be
located no less than ten feet from the side lot line, except that an access
drive for a residential use may be within three feet of a side lot line. Access
drives for any uses utilizing a common drive may be adjacent to and co-
terminous with a side lot line.
   (D)   Quantity permitted. The number of access drives shall be kept to a
minimum to promote safe and reasonable access, improve the convenience and ease
of movement of travelers, and permit reasonable speeds and economy of travel
while maintaining roadway capacity. For lots with less than 200 feet of
frontage on public rights-of-way and with less than five acres in total area,
no more than two access drives shall be permitted. For lots with more than 200
feet of road frontage on public rights-of- way and greater than five acres in
total area, additional access drives may by permitted by the Planning
Commission. The spacing standards of division (B) of this section shall take
precedence.
   (E)   Surfacing. All access driveways shall be graded for proper drainage
and surfaced with concrete, asphaltic concrete, premixed asphalt pavement,
blacktop, or brick so as to provide a durable and dustless surface. All access
driveway aprons shall be graded for proper drainage and surfaced with concrete.
Access driveway and apron designs shall be reviewed and approved by the Village
Engineer prior to construction.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.235 OFF-STREET LOADING.
   (A)   Classification. The loading space shall consist of a rectangular area
of one of the following classes:
      (1)   Class A: an area at least 14 feet by 55 feet having a vertical
clearance of 15 feet or more, plus adequate area for ingress and egress.
      (2)   Class B: an area at least 12 feet by 30 feet having a vertical
distance of 15 feet or more, plus adequate area for ingress and egress.
   (B)   Schedule of loading spaces. Off-street loading space shall be provided
for retailing, wholesaling, warehousing, processing, hotel, hospital, goods
display, and similar uses located within General Commercial (GC), Suburban
Office (SO), Planned Commercial (PCD), or Limited Manufacturing (LM) Districts
requiring the receipt or distribution by vehicles of material or merchandise in
accordance with the following schedule:
 
Building Area (Sq. Ft.) Required Class
Less than 750           None required
750 - 1,499             1 Class B
1,500 - 2,499           1 Class A and 1 Class B or 3 Class B
2,500 - 9,999           1 Class A and 1 Class B or 3 Class B
                        1 Class A and 1 Class B or 3 Class B, plus 1 Class A
10,000 - 49,999         for each 10,000 square feet over the first 10,000
                        square feet of area
                        1 Class A for each 10,000 square feet over the first
More than 50,000        10,000 square feet of area, plus 1 Class A for each
                        25,000 square feet over the first 50,000 square feet
 
   (C)   Surfacing. Areas designated for off-street loading shall at a minimum
be paved and shall be graded for proper drainage. Designs shall be reviewed by
the Village Engineer and approved by the Director prior to construction.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.236 LIMITATIONS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   The provision of outdoor parking space for the parking or storage of
vehicles in a residential zoning district or planned district for residential
uses shall be subject to the following.
   (A)   Tractor trucks, trailers, semi-trailers, and the like shall not be
permitted in any residential zoning district.
   (B)   Vehicles may be parked or stored outdoors in the front yard on a
residential premises provided that:
      (1)   The vehicle is a self-propelled motor vehicle that is licensable
for operation on a public street;
      (2)   The overall dimensions of such a vehicle shall not exceed ten feet
in height, eight feet in width, or 20 feet in length;
      (3)   Only one such vehicle may be a commercial vehicle;
      (4)   Front yard parking shall be restricted to the paved driveway
surface that meets or exceeds minimum design standards for an off-street
parking space for all vehicles meeting the criteria noted above, and vehicles
shall not be parked in such a manner as to block the sidewalk or create a
hazard to pedestrians. The minimum size for an off-street parking space shall
be as specified in §
153.231; and
      (5)   Front yard parking of all other types of vehicles not specifically
permitted by this chapter shall be prohibited.
   (C)   An operable vehicle may be parked or stored outdoors in the side or
rear yard of a residential premises provided that:
      (1)   All vehicles shall be parked or stored in a single location on the
premises. This storage location shall not exceed eight feet in width, or 12
feet in height, or 30 feet in length;
      (2)   No vehicle shall be nearer to a side lot line than five feet;
      (3)   A vehicle parked or stored in the side or rear yard shall be
screened in accordance with the screening requirements contained in §
153.277(F);
      (4)   No vehicle shall be parked or stored in the required minimum
principal building rear yard on a premises; and
      (5)   Side or rear yard parking of a commercial vehicle shall be
prohibited.
   (D)   No vehicle shall be used for living, sleeping, housekeeping, or
commercial purposes when parked or stored on a residential lot, or in any
location not approved for such use.
   (E)   Requirements regarding inoperable vehicles are found in Chapter 96 of
these codified ordinances.
   (F)   Garages shall be required in all residential districts for all
residential structures or part thereof hereafter created, erected, changed,
converted, or enlarged, wholly or partly, and subject to the following
standards:
      (1)   For all single-family dwellings and duplexes, a completely enclosed
garage shall be provided that will meet or exceed the minimum design standards
for parking lot layouts as set forth in §
153.231; and
      (2)   For multi-family dwellings, at least two spaces shall be provided
in a completely enclosed garage for each dwelling unit; however, carports may
be provided in lieu of completely enclosed garages with the approval of the
Planning Commission.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.237 COMMERCIAL PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   (A)   Employee/client parking to serve commercial, office, or industrial
enterprises may be permitted in residential districts with the approval of the
Planning Commission provided that:
      (1)   The area to be used for parking shall directly abut the land zoned
for commercial, office, or industrial uses;
      (2)   The residentially zoned land used for such parking shall not
contain any dwellings; and
      (3)   Such parking is for passenger vehicles only. This does not include
buses, semi-trucks, or other commercial vehicles.
   (B)   In granting such approval, the Planning Commission shall require a
site plan of the proposed parking area including required landscaping,
buffering and screening, landscaping, or buffering as it deems necessary to
minimize the impact on adjoining properties.
   (C)   The Commission shall review all such requests subject to §
153.042.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
SIGNS
§ 153.250 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   This chapter is in pursuance of the authority granted by the Ohio
Revised Code and the Charter of the village to promote the health, safety,
convenience, prosperity, and general welfare of the residents of the village,
and to acknowledge and accommodate the legitimate needs of business, to provide
every business person with equal opportunity to present such business visually,
to protect the community from unsightly visual clutter and abuse, and to retain
and increase aesthetic value of the community. It is further intended to reduce
sign distractions and sight obstructions that may create or contribute to
traffic hazards.
   (B)   This chapter shall not regulate official traffic or governmental
signs; the copy or message of any sign; flags of any nation, government, or
noncommercial organization; religious symbols; the display of street numbers;
or any display or construction not defined herein as a sign.
   (C)   This chapter shall not be construed to relieve or lessen the liability
or responsibility of any person owning, operating, controlling, or installing
any sign or constructing or erecting any sign, for damage to persons or
property caused by any defect in such sign, nor shall the village be held to
assume any such liability by reason of the provisions or inspection authorized
by this chapter.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
Cross-reference:
   Architectural Design Review Board and Historic Preservation Board, see §§
153.080 through
153.094
   Certificate of zoning compliance, see §
153.031
Statutory and case reference:
   Nonconforming signs as nuisances, see Northern Ohio Sign Contractors Assn.
v. Lakewood, 32 Ohio St. 3d 316 (1987)
   Power to regulate signs and billboards, see R.C. §§ 713.06 and 715.27
§ 153.251 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person to erect, place, or
maintain a sign in the village except in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, such
provisions shall be held to be the minimum requirements. Where this chapter
imposes greater restriction or limitation of the number, height, area, or
location of signs than are imposed or required by other laws or ordinances, the
provisions of this chapter shall control.
   (C)   All signs, including those that are exempt from requiring a permit
listed in §
153.253, shall be properly maintained. The sign shall be constructed in a safe,
presentable manner with sound structural material. This requirement includes
the replacement of all defective parts, painting, repainting, cleaning, and
other acts involved in general maintenance. If a sign is not made to comply
with adequate safety standards, the Director shall require its removal in
accordance with this section.
   (D)   Every sign requiring electric current shall meet the requirements of
the County Building and Electrical Code, and shall be properly inspected and
approved.
   (E)   All permanent signs placed on properties, sites, or buildings
designated as historic or located in a designated historic district in
accordance with §§
153.080 through
153.094 shall be reviewed and approved by the Historic Preservation Board of
the village and a certificate of appropriateness issued prior to the issuance
of a sign permit.
   (F)   Traffic directing signs in commercial and manufacturing districts, and
for principally permitted nonresidential uses within residential districts, are
permitted provided that:
      (1)   The maximum area for each side of such sign is two and one-half
square feet per side and there are not more than two such sides; and
      (2)   No more than two traffic directing signs are permitted on a
property unless a traffic-control signage plan is submitted to and approved by
the Planning Commission.
   (G)   A maximum of one informational sign for any bona fide church,
religious sect, or congregation located within the corporate boundaries of the
village shall be permitted provided that such sign does not exceed 20 square
feet in area per side of sign and there are no more than two such sides, that
sign height not exceed six feet, and that such sign be located outside a public
right-of-way. Lighting for such signs must conform to the requirements of the
zoning district as provided in this chapter.
   (H)   A sign may include an electronic message center subject to the
following requirements.
      (1)   An electronic message center sign shall only be permitted as part
of a permanent on premise sign.
      (2)   An electronic message center sign shall be limited to ground-
mounted free standing signs.
      (3)   An electronic message center sign face shall not exceed 75% of the
total permitted sign area and meet all sign requirements outlined in §§
153.254,
153.255, and
153.256.
      (4)   An electronic message center sign shall be permitted for any
approved informational sign as described in division (G) above or for uses in
the Suburban Office and Institution District. In no case shall the electronic
message center sign copy or display message area exceed the sign area of the
approved informational sign area. If an existing approved information sign area
is less than what would be approved as outlined in division (H)(3) above, the
sign area may be increased to meet the sign requirements.
      (5)   The use of color in the electronic message center signs shall be
limited to two for the illuminated copy and two illuminated background colors.
      (6)   The surface area of the remaining portion of the sign face shall be
permanent and non-moveable.
      (7)   The sign copy or display message shall not contain animation,
scrolling, or running letters or text.
      (8)   The sign copy or display message shall not change or alternate more
than once every 20 seconds.
      (9)   The sign copy or display message shall not cause disabling glare or
cause a distraction or menace to traffic safety. The sign shall have
illumination dimming technology to assure daytime levels and nighttime levels
to maintain effective illumination based on ambient light conditions.
      (10)   An electronic message center sign is prohibited in the mandatory
portion of the designated Historic District.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 2013-031, passed 7-15-2013) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.252 SIGNS PROHIBITED IN ALL ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The following types of signs are prohibited in all zoning districts:
      (1)   Except as referenced in §
153.251(H), flashing, moving, rotating, or intermittently light signs,
electronic variable message signs and portions of signs, or other mechanical
devices except when used as standard barber poles without any worded message,
or for public service signs;
      (2)   Billboard signs;
      (3)   Roof signs; and
      (4)   Any sign illuminated in such a fashion as to cause disabling glare,
or having an energized legend made up of lamps or luminous elements that may be
visible during the daytime as well as at night.
   (B)   No sign shall be so designed and erected, so illuminated, or operated
in such a way or in such a location, that it conflicts with or distracts from
the effectiveness or visibility of an official traffic light or sign or
constitutes a menace to traffic safety or radio communication.
   (C)   No sign shall be placed in such a manner as to obstruct any fire
escape, required exit, door, window, or any ventilation system or other
operational necessities of a building.
   (D)   No sign shall be affixed to any tree, fence, utility pole, street
light, or other similar structure.
   (E)   Signs that no longer advertise a bona fide operation, business, or
product sold are determined to be a nuisance and are not permitted. Signs shall
be removed when the business ceases or the product is no longer available and
at the expense of the owner of the building, structure, or property to which
the sign is connected.
   (F)   No sign or part thereof shall contain or consist of posters, pennants,
ribbons, streamers, spinners, or other moving devices. Such devices, as well as
strings of lights, shall not be used for the purpose of advertising business.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 2002-023, passed 10-7-2002; Ord. 2013-031,
passed 7-15-2013)
§ 153.253 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following signs are allowed in all districts, unless otherwise stated,
without a permit:
   (A)   Construction signs. Non-illuminated signs posted by persons or firms
connected with work on buildings under actual construction or alteration,
provided that no such sign is more than 12 square feet in area; that
information thereon is limited to name, address, and telephone number of the
contractor; that such signs, when not attached flat against a building, are set
back at least six feet from all vehicular rights-of-way; and that such signs
are maintained in good condition. When more than one contractor is
participating in a construction project, one shared sign of no more than 15
square feet in area can be posted. Such signs may be posted from the time a
building permit is issued through ten days after the issuance of a final
occupancy permit;
   (B)   Municipal signs. Traffic or other municipal signs, legal notices,
railroad crossing signs, and other danger signs;
   (C)   Temporary signs pertaining to charitable and nonprofit institutions.
Temporary signs pertaining to charitable or nonprofit institutions, provided
that no such sign is greater than 24 inches by 30 inches in size; that such
signs are erected either within a building or set back from all vehicular
rights-of-way at least six feet; and that such signs are maintained in good
condition;
   (D)   Other temporary signs or banners. Temporary signs or banners
pertaining to charitable or nonprofit institutions and signs dealing with
matters other than the advertisement of established business when such signs
are limited to 32 square feet and erected in any location designated for such
posting by Village Council;
   (E)   Plaques. Memorial tablets, commemorative plaques, and plaques
containing the name of a building, the date of erection, or the use of such
building, provided that such tablet, sign, or plaque is limited to two square
feet in area;
   (F)   Noncommercial opinion signs. One noncommercial opinion sign may be
posted on private property at any time, and one additional noncommercial sign
for each candidate and issue may be posted during election season, provided
such signs are no larger than six square feet in area per side within a
residential zoning district and 16 square feet in area per side in any other
district and there are no more than two sides. Such signs shall be properly
maintained at all times. Signs made of paper, cardboard, lightweight wood, wire
frame and plastic, or other nondurable material shall be removed or replaced
every 30 days;
   (G)   Public service signs. When such signs contain no other sign message
than a public service display, and when such signs have been approved by
Council;
   (H)   Real estate signs. Non-illuminated real estate signs may be permitted
provided that no such sign is more than 12 square feet in area per side with a
maximum of two sides; that it advertises the sale, lease, or rental of only the
building or premises whereon such sign appears; that such sign is limited to
one for each building so posted; that such signs, when not attached flat
against a building, are setback at least six feet from all vehicular rights-of-
way; and that such signs are maintained in good condition;
   (I)   Garage sale signs. Provided that no such sign is larger than three
square feet total sign area; that only one such sign exist in locations other
than the seller’s property; that such sign is kept on display 72 hours or less;
that no property so advertises more than twice a year; that a garage sale
permit is obtained prior to the sale (see
Chapter 110 of these codified ordinances);
   (J)   Business informational sign. Non-illuminated business informational
signs are allowed for the purpose of displaying business hours; indicating that
a business is open or closed for business; excluding food, drink, smoking, and
the like from the premises; and similar information; provided, that the total
area of such signs shall not exceed an area of ten square feet per business;
and
   (K)   Sign indicating business if open. Each business may display one non-
illuminated flag to indicate that a shop is open for business provided that:
      (1)   Such flag is exhibited during business hours only;
      (2)   Such flag shall not be larger than three feet wide by four feet
long; and
      (3)   This regulation shall not regulate flags of any nations,
government, or noncommercial organization.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 98-105, passed 2-2-1998; Ord. 2001-005,
passed 3-19-2001; Ord. 2010-004, passed 5-3-2010)
§ 153.254 REGULATIONS FOR SIGNS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS, PLANNED RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICT (PRD), PLANNED UNIT DISTRICT (PUD), AND LIMITED RESIDENTIAL OVERLAY
DISTRICT (LR).
   (A)   Signs directing attention to principally permitted, nonresidential
property uses may be allowed on-site in residential zones subject to the most
restrictive requirements for that particular type of sign as listed elsewhere
in this chapter; and provided that the signery adhere to a sign message area
restriction that is 50% of the message area allowed for the same type of sign
in nonresidential zones.
   (B)   Signery for nonresidential uses within a Planned Unit District (PUD)
and for nonconforming business or industrial uses shall conform to the
standards established in §
153.255 for Neighborhood Commercial District (NC).
   (C)   Non-illuminated announcement or professional free-standing,
projecting, or wall signs are permitted, provided that such signs are limited
to one per business establishment, and that such signs are not more than two
square feet in area per side and there are no more than two sides.
   (D)   One non-illuminated window sign erected within a structure or painted
or otherwise applied to the interior of a window is allowed per principal
building with a maximum of 25% or less of the area of the window being obscured
by such sign.
   (E)   Subdivision information signs are permitted in accordance with §
152.076 of the Subdivision Code of the village.
   (F)   Electric message center signs are permitted as specified in §
153.251(H).
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 2013-031, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 153.255 REGULATIONS IN COMMERCIAL AND PLANNED COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Regulations for Neighborhood Commercial District (NC), Limited
Commercial Overlay District (LC):
      (1)   General provisions.
         (a)   A maximum of two types and three total signs (exclusive of
traffic directing signs) are allowed on any principal building or property
housing no more than two business tenants on any one lot.
         (b)   Buildings housing more than two tenants, shopping centers,
shopping malls, office centers, and the like are permitted one freestanding,
projecting, or wall sign per lot for the purpose of listing multiple business
tenants. An area of five square feet of sign area per side of sign for each
tenant listed not to exceed a total of 100 square feet of aggregate sign area
on the property is permitted. In addition, each separate business may have one
wall type sign conforming to the requirements set forth for wall signs in the
Neighborhood Commercial District (NC).
         (c)   Advertising vehicles or any other accessory structures or uses
supporting advertising are prohibited.
         (d)   No sign shall cover architectural details such as, but not
limited to, arches, sills, mouldings, cornices, and transom windows.
         (e)   No sign shall remain illuminated between the hours of 11:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. unless the associated use is operating during those hours.
         (f)   Internally illuminated plastic/acrylic/vinyl/fiberglass or any
similar material signs are prohibited.
         (g)   Trademarks, nationally-recognized logos and the like may occupy
a maximum of 20% of any sign.
         (h)   All signs must be erected on private property, and may not
encroach on public rights- of-way.
      (2)   Requirements by type of sign.
         (a)   Freestanding. Whenever the front of a building is ten feet or
more from the sidewalk or public right-of-way, one freestanding sign per
property may be displayed, provided that:
            1.   The maximum area for each side of the sign does not exceed 15
square feet;
            2.   The maximum height of the sign including mountings or supports
does not exceed six feet;
            3.   The horizontal dimension of the sign does not exceed seven
feet;
            4.   Such sign is of permanent construction and it shall be
constructed according to the provisions of the Building Code;
            5.   Such sign, if lighted, be illuminated externally so that the
outside face of the sign is uniformly flooded with light from fixed sources
directed at the sign face so as to provide uniform distribution of light over
the entire sign face without distracting glare or spill light outside the sign
face; and
            6.   Electronic message center signs are permitted as specified in
§
153.251(H).
         (b)   Projecting signs. Projecting signs are permitted provided that:
            1.   The overall size of such sign does not exceed 12 square feet
per face;
            2.   The sign does not project more than three feet from the
building and does not encroach on a public right-of-way;
            3.   The minimum clearance of the sign shall be at least eight feet
above the existing grade;
            4.   If two or more businesses inhabit a single building and elect
to use projecting signs, the aggregate total size of all such signs on the
property shall not exceed 30 square feet with a limit of two sides per sign;
and
            5.   No sign is within six feet of any alley.
         (c)   Wall signs. Wall signs are permitted provided that:
            1.   The depth of such sign shall not project from a building
surface more than 12 inches;
            2.   Such sign shall not extend beyond the building roof or side;
            3.   The total sign area cannot exceed one square foot of sign area
for each lineal foot of building face parallel to the street, or 10% of the
wall area or 25 square feet, whichever is less;
            4.   A single property may have two or more wall signs but the
total square footage of all wall signs on the property shall not exceed the
total allowable sign area;
            5.   Canopies and/or awnings that are lettered will count as wall
signs and shall have a minimum height of eight feet above the existing grade.
The total area of the lettered portion of the canopy or awning shall conform to
division (A)(2)(c)3. above; and
            6.   In the case of a building which fronts on two or more streets,
a sign may appear on each wall facing a street. The total sign area of all
signs on the property shall be no greater than that allowable by front foot
computation of the larger wall.
         (d)   Window signs. Window signs are permitted provided that:
            1.   Permanent window signs are limited to 25% coverage of the
window they are posted in or painted on; and
            2.   Such sign may be illuminated, except such sign shall not be
illuminated in a designated Historic District.
   (B)   Regulations for General Commercial (GC), Suburban Office (SO) and
Planned Commercial District (PCD).
      (1)   General provisions.
         (a)   A maximum of two types and three total signs (exclusive of
traffic directing signs) are permitted per principal building or property
housing not more than two business tenants on any one lot.
         (b)   Buildings housing more than two tenants, shopping centers,
shopping malls, office centers, and the like are permitted one freestanding,
projecting, or wall sign per lot for the purpose of listing multiple business
tenants. An area of ten square feet of sign area per side of sign for each
tenant listed not to exceed a total of 200 square feet of aggregate sign area
on the property is permitted. In addition, each separate business may have one
wall type sign conforming to the requirements set forth for wall signs in the
General Commercial, Suburban Office, and Planned Commercial districts.
         (c)   Advertising vehicles or any other accessory structures or uses
supporting advertising are prohibited.
         (d)   No sign shall remain illuminated between the hours of 11:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. unless:
            1.   The associated use is operating during those hours; or
            2.   The principal building or property is located on a state or
federal highway.
         (e)   Internally illuminated plastic/acrylic/vinyl signs are permitted
only if they are of a custom design.
         (f)   Trademarks and nationally-recognized logos may occupy a maximum
of 20% of any sign.
         (g)   All signs must be erected on private property and may not
encroach on public rights-of- way.
      (2)   Requirements by type of sign.
         (a)   Freestanding. One freestanding sign per property may be
displayed, provided that:
            1.   The maximum area for each side of the sign located at least
ten feet from the right- of-way line facing a public street does not exceed one
and one-half feet for each linear foot of building frontage and the sign height
does not exceed eight feet;
            2.   The maximum area for each side of the sign located between ten
feet and 20 feet of the right-of-way line facing a public street does not
exceed one and one-half feet for each linear foot of building frontage and the
sign height does not exceed 12 feet;
            3.   The maximum area for each side of the sign located more than
20 feet from the right-of-way line facing a public street does not exceed one
and one-half feet for each linear foot of building frontage and the sign height
does not exceed 16 feet;
            4.   Such sign, if lighted, be either:
               a.   Illuminated externally so that the outside face of the sign
is uniformly flooded with light from fixed sources directed at the sign face so
as to provide uniform distribution of light over the entire sign face without
distracting glare or spill light outside the sign face; or
               b.   Illuminated internally by indirect lighting where the light
is produced by illuminating incandescent or fluorescent tubes behind a
translucent sign background upon which the sign message has been displayed.
            5.   Electronic message center signs are permitted as specified in
§
153.251(H).
         (b)   Projecting signs. Projecting signs are permitted provided that:
            1.   The overall size of such sign does not exceed 20 square feet
per side with a limit of two sides;
            2.   If two or more businesses inhabit a single building and elect
to use projecting signs, the aggregate size of all such signs on the property
shall not exceed 30 square feet per side with a limit of two sides; and
            3.   No sign is within six feet of any alley.
         (c)   Wall signs. Wall signs are permitted provided that:
            1.   The sign does not project from a building surface more than 12
inches;
            2.   Such sign shall not extend beyond the building roof or side;
            3.   The total sign area cannot exceed one square foot of sign area
per linear foot of building face parallel to the street, or 10% of the wall
area or 25 square feet, whichever is less;
            4.   A single property may have two or more wall signs but the
total square footage of all wall signs on the property shall not exceed the
total allowable sign area;
            5.   Canopies and/or awnings which are lettered count as wall signs
and shall have a minimum height of eight feet above the existing grade. The
total area of the lettered portion of the canopy or awning shall conform to
division (B)(2)(c)3. above;
            6.   In the case of a building which fronts on two or more streets,
a sign may appear on each wall facing a street. The total sign area of these
signs shall be no greater than that allowable by front foot computation of the
larger wall; and
            7.   Such sign, if lighted, be either:
               a.   Illuminated externally so that the outside face of the sign
is uniformly flooded with light from fixed sources directed at the sign face so
as to provide uniform distribution of light over the entire sign face without
distracting glare or spill light outside the sign face; or
               b.   Illuminated internally by indirect lighting where the light
is produced by illuminating incandescent or fluorescent tubes behind a
translucent sign background upon which the sign message has been displayed.
         (d)   Window signs. Window signs are permitted provided that:
            1.   Permanent window signs are limited to 25% coverage of the
window they are posted in or painted on; and
            2.   Such sign shall not be illuminated.
         (e)   Gasoline (service) station price signs. Gasoline (service)
station price signs are permitted provided that:
            1.   The sign displayed is no larger than six square feet per side
and there are no more than two such sides;
            2.   The sign displayed meets all other applicable standards
contained in this chapter, except that if a price sign is mounted on the same
standard as another freestanding sign, the total display area for the aggregate
of all signs thus mounted on such standard shall not exceed 20 square feet on
each of two sides; nor shall any part of the allowance for a price sign be
added to the allowance for an identification sign in order to create a larger
sign; and
            3.   Such price sign may be a change-panel sign.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 2013-031, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 153.256 REGULATIONS IN THE LIMITED MANUFACTURING DISTRICT (LM).
   (A)   General provisions. General provisions for signs in the Limited
Manufacturing District shall be as set forth for General Commercial (GC),
Suburban Office (SO), and Planned Commercial District (PCD) in §
153.255.
   (B)   Requirements by type of sign.
      (1)   Freestanding. Freestanding signs are permitted and shall conform to
the provisions set forth for (GC), (SO), and (PCD) in §
153.255 with the following exceptions:
         (a)   The minimum clearance under freestanding signs when installed
over an area used by motor vehicles and bicycles shall be 15 feet; eight feet
when installed over an area used by pedestrians; no minimum clearance when
neither of the foregoing restrictions apply;
         (b)   The horizontal dimension of such sign is no greater than ten
feet; and
         (c)   Electronic message center signs are permitted as specified in §
153.251.
      (2)   Projecting signs. Projecting signs are permitted and shall conform
to the provisions set forth for (GC), (SO), and (PCD) in §
153.255 with the following exceptions. The minimum clearance under projecting
signs when installed over an area used by motor vehicles and bicycles shall be
15 feet; eight feet when installed over an area used by pedestrians; no minimum
clearance when neither of the foregoing restrictions apply.
      (3)   Wall signs. Wall signs are permitted and shall conform to the
provisions set forth for (GC), (SO), and (PCD) in §
153.255.
      (4)   Window signs. Window signs are permitted and shall conform to the
provisions set forth for (GC), (SO), and (PCD) in §
153.255.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 2013-031, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 153.257 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   Temporary signs in commercial and manufacturing districts, and for
principally permitted nonresidential uses within residential districts, are
permitted provided that:
   (A)   Temporary signs or banners not exempted under §
153.253 shall not be displayed without a permit. Each temporary sign permit
shall contain an expiration date as set forth in this chapter;
   (B)   (1)   A business in the Neighborhood Commercial (NC) or Limited
Commercial Overlay District (LC) may display one non-illuminated temporary sign
or banner for a period not to exceed 30 days per calendar year.
      (2)   A business in the General Commercial (GC), Suburban Office (SO),
and Planned Commercial District (PCD) may display one non-illuminated temporary
sign or banner at a time for a period not to exceed 26 calendar weeks per
calendar year.
      (3)   For the purpose of this division (B), a calendar week consists of
seven consecutive days beginning on Monday and ending on a Sunday. A calendar
year begins January 1 and ends December 31.
   (C)   Temporary wall signs or window signs are permitted and shall conform
to regulations established for these types of signs for the applicable zoning
district as set forth in this chapter;
   (D)   Temporary banners are permitted, provided that:
      (1)   The total area of the banner sign shall not exceed that allowed for
a permanent wall sign in the applicable zoning district as set forth in this
chapter;
      (2)   The banner sign shall not be displayed above the roof line of any
structure;
      (3)   The banner shall not be illuminated; and
      (4)   The banner shall be erected on private property, shall not encroach
on public rights-of-way, and shall be located such that the banner does not
obstruct the view of motorists for the purpose of traffic and pedestrian
safety.
   (E)   Temporary portable signs are permitted, provided that:
      (1)   Such sign shall not be more than four feet high or eight feet wide;
      (2)   The overall height of such sign is not more than six feet above the
existing grade;
      (3)   Temporary portable signs shall not be illuminated; and
      (4)   The portable sign shall be placed on private property, shall not
encroach on public rights- of-way, and shall be located such that the portable
sign does not obstruct the view of motorists for the purpose of traffic and
pedestrian safety.
   (F)   Temporary signs, banners, and portable signs shall be properly
maintained at all times.
   (G)   Permits for temporary signs, banners, and portable signs within a
designated Historic District of the village may be issued by the Director
without a certificate of appropriateness from the Historic Preservation Board.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 98-105, passed 2-2-1998; Ord. 98-172,
passed 12-21-1998)
§ 153.258 LEGAL NONCONFORMITY.
   (A)   Any sign located within the village limits on the date of adoption of
this chapter, or located in an area annexed to the village thereafter, which
does not conform with the provisions of this chapter, is eligible for
characterization as a “legal nonconforming” sign and is permitted.
   (B)   Restrictions for legally nonconforming signs:
      (1)   A nonconforming sign shall not be replaced by another nonconforming
sign;
      (2)   Minor repairs and maintenance of nonconforming signs such as
repainting, electrical repairs, and light bulb repair shall be allowed provided
that the cost of the repairs or maintenance does not exceed more than one-half
of the replacement value of the sign as determined by the Director. However, no
changes in the size, shape, location, lighting, colors, or text shall be
permitted except in conformance with this chapter;
      (3)   If a nonconforming sign is damaged to more than one-half of its
replacement value as determined by the Director, or if structural repairs are
required to the supporting structure of a nonconforming sign, then the entire
nonconforming sign including any supporting structure shall be removed and
shall not be repaired or replaced except in conformance with this chapter;
      (4)   Any nonconforming sign which is altered, relocated, or replaced
shall comply with all provisions of this chapter as if it were a new sign; and
      (5)   Nonconforming signs made of paper, cloth, or other nondurable
material, and any signs that are not affixed to a building or the ground or are
located within a public right-of-way, shall be removed within 30 days from the
effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.259 REMOVAL AND DISPOSITION OF SIGNS.
   (A)   The Director may cause to be removed at the owner’s expense without
notice any sign that endangers the public safety such as abandoned; dangerous;
materially, electrically, or structurally defective; or a sign for which no
permit has been issued; or a sign for which the permit has expired.
   (B)   The Director may cause to be removed at the owner’s expense any sign
which is in violation of this chapter and not subject to immediate removal;
provided, that a written notice of violation is issued which shall describe the
sign and specify the violation involved and which shall state that if the sign
is not removed or the violation is not corrected within ten days after issuance
of notice, the sign shall be removed at the owner’s expense and enforcement
action initiated in accordance with §
153.261.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.260 PERMITS, FEES AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Every sign hereafter erected in any zoning district of the village
shall require a permit and the payment of a fee as hereinafter stipulated.
   (B)   All signs not specifically allowed by §
153.253 shall be erected only after issuance of a permit by the Director.
   (C)   A sign permit shall be obtained and a sign permit fee paid whenever:
      (1)   A sign is erected where no sign existed before;
      (2)   A business changes signs after a change in business ownership;
      (3)   The size; shape; location; lighting; colors; or text of a sign is
changed, whether for an existing business or a new business; and
      (4)   The sign is altered from the conditions specified in the original
permit issued for the sign by the village.
   (D)   Every application for a sign permit shall include the following:
      (1)   Name and address of the owner of the sign;
      (2)   Street address or location of the property on which the sign is to
be located, along with the name and address of the property owner;
      (3)   The type of sign or sign structure to be permitted, as defined in
this chapter;
      (4)   A site plan showing the proposed location of the sign along with
the types, locations, and square footage areas of all existing signs on the
same premises;
      (5)   Specifications and scale drawings showing the materials, design,
dimensions, structural supports, electrical components, and other pertinent
design features and components of the proposed sign;
      (6)   An approved certificate of appropriateness from the Historic
Preservation Board for properties located within a designated historic
district; and
      (7)   Any other information the Director determines to be necessary for
proper review of the sign permit application.
   (E)   Applications for sign permits shall be accompanied by a fee as
established by Village Council (see §
153.045).
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.261 VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES AND APPEALS.
   (A)   (1)   If any sign is erected or maintained in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter, the Director shall provide written notice to the
owner of such violation. This notice shall include a brief statement of the
particulars in which this chapter is violated, the manner in which such
violation is to be remedied, and a specified time in which remediation is to be
made.
      (2)   If a sign has been registered with the Director, notice to the
registered owner or to the person or firm receiving the permit shall be
sufficient. If a sign has not been registered and the owner is not known, at
least one publication of such notice in a local newspaper of general
circulation shall constitute official notification of the violation.
   (B)   Upon failure to comply with an order of the Director within the time
specified in the written notice and at the request of the Director, the Law
Director of the village shall file an enforcement action against responsible
parties in an appropriate court of law seeking penalties in accordance with §
153.999.
   (C)   Appeals from the ruling of the Director shall be made to the Board of
Appeals in accordance with §
153.043(E).
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996) Penalty, see §
153.999
LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING
§ 153.275 PURPOSE.
   The purpose and intent of this subchapter is the preservation and promotion
of landscaping as a suitable and necessary aspect of land development, as a
component of the village’s development character, as an important beneficial
element of the microclimate through the provision of shade and as buffers, and
to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare. It is further the
purpose of this subchapter to promote the preservation and, when necessary,
replacement of major trees removed in the course of land development, to
promote the proper utilization of landscaping as a buffer between certain land
uses to minimize conflicts, and to protect, preserve, and promote the character
of the village.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
Cross-reference:
   Village Tree Board, see §
95.02
§ 153.276 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Nonresidential uses.
      (1)   All trees with a caliper of six inches or more shall be maintained
and preserved as part of all nonresidential development. The location of all
other driveways, off-street parking and loading areas, and all other
improvements, including grading, shall be designed to avoid the destruction of
any such existing tree defined herein. As part of an approved landscaping plan,
any such tree may be replaced by a tree of like species with a caliper not less
than three inches only under the following conditions:
         (a)   An existing tree will be located within a public right-of-way or
easement;
         (b)   An existing tree is located within the area to be covered by a
proposed structure or within 12 feet from the perimeter of such structure and
such structure cannot be located in a manner to avoid removal of an existing
tree at the same time permitting desirable, logical, and appropriate
development of the lot;
         (c)   An existing tree will be located within a proposed driveway,
off-street parking area, or other improvement and relocation of such
improvement would not permit desirable, logical, and appropriate development of
the lot; and
         (d)   An existing tree is damaged or diseased.
      (2)   In addition to the requirements for off-street parking areas, all
nonresidential uses shall provide 20 square feet of landscaped area for every
1,000 square feet of building ground coverage area, or fraction thereof, and
one-inch in tree caliper for every 1,000 square feet of building ground
coverage. All areas of a lot not covered by buildings, structures, paving, or
the landscaping required herein shall be covered by natural turf at a minimum.
Tree planting requirements may be waived by the Planning Commission if the
quantity of existing trees and their aggregate trunk sizes meet or exceed these
requirements and are evenly distributed throughout the subject site.
   (B)   Multi-family perimeter treatment. For all multi-family residential
uses, a 15-foot landscaped perimeter shall be provided where such development
is adjacent to or abuts a residential zoning district or public right-of-way,
excluding on-site access drives. Such landscaping shall include a combination
of trees, shrubs, hedges, earth mounds, and other natural features. No more
than 50% of natural landscaping material shall consist of turf.
   (C)   Off-street parking areas.
      (1)   Off-street parking areas for more than five vehicles shall be
effectively screened on each side which abuts a residential zoning district or
public right-of-way by a masonry wall or solid wood fence. Such wall or fence
shall be no higher than four feet and shall be maintained in good condition.
Landscaping provided in lieu of such wall or fence shall consist of a strip of
land not less than 15 feet in width planted with an evergreen hedge or dense
planting of evergreen shrubs not less than four feet in height. This division
(C) shall apply to bed and breakfast inns regardless of the size of off-street
parking area.
      (2)   All off-street parking areas shall provide one tree not less than
two inches tree trunk diameter, measured at four feet from the ground, for
every six parking spaces. All trees shall be balled and wrapped in burlap when
planted. Planting beds for parking lot trees shall be constructed so as to
minimize damage to trunks and roots of the trees from vehicles, pedestrians,
and parking lot maintenance through the use of adequate soil planting area and
curbing or parking blocks. Planting soil area per tree shall be a minimum of 16
square feet. The minimum dimension for the planting areas shall be four feet on
one side. All trees shall be maintained in a healthy condition.
      (3)   Relative to landscaping within off-street parking areas and
screening of parking area perimeters, for off-street parking areas equal to or
larger than 2,500 square feet in total area or ten or more parking spaces,
whichever is greater, minimum landscaping areas within the interior of the
parking area shall be provided at the rate of ten square feet for every 1,000
square feet of parking area. No more than 50% of natural landscaping material
shall consist of turf.
   (D)   Signs. In addition to the requirements of divisions (A), (B), and (C)
of this section, a landscaped area totaling a minimum of 50 square feet shall
be provided centered on the base of all freestanding signs and should be
comprised of a variety of natural materials, such as turf, ground cover,
shrubs, and hedges. Within the Limited Commercial Overlay District and Limited
Residential Overlay District, the total amount of landscaped area shall not
exceed 15 square feet once the off-street parking requirements have been met.
No more than 50% of natural landscaping material shall consist of turf. Low
maintenance plant materials should be utilized. A sketch plan drawn to scale
and indicating plant material by type and quantity shall be provided with the
application for a certificate of zoning compliance.
   (E)   Screening of service courts and loading dock areas. All areas used for
service, loading, and unloading activities shall be screened along the entire
lot line if adjacent to or abutting a residential zoning district or public
right-of-way. The requirements of §
153.277(F) shall apply.
   (F)   Screening of trash container receptacles. For all non-single-family
residential uses requiring trash container receptacles, such as dumpsters, all
such containers or receptacles shall be enclosed on all sides by walls or
fences with an opacity of 100% and a minimum height of six feet. Such
containers or receptacles, when located adjacent to or abutting a residential
zoning district, shall in addition be landscaped on all sides visible from such
districts by shrubs and hedges with an opacity of 75%. Trash containers and
receptacles shall be located behind the building line and shall be located to
the rear of nonresidential uses. Trash containers and receptacles shall conform
to side and rear yard setback requirements and for nonresidential uses adjacent
to a residential zoning district such containers and receptacles shall be
located no closer than 25 feet to any property line.
   (G)   Significant trees. All significant trees as defined in this chapter
shall be protected and preserved to ensure that the value provided to the
village and its citizens by the cultural, historical, biological, or
horticultural significance of any tree is continued into the future.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.277 LANDSCAPE STANDARDS.
   Proposed landscape materials should complement existing vegetation, all
architectural features and general layout, and should be comprised of
indigenous plant material. Landscaping design and materials shall consist of
the following.
   (A)   Plants. All plant materials shall be living plants that conform to the
standards of the American Association of Nurserymen and shall have passed any
inspections required under state regulations. Artificial plants are prohibited
in all landscaped areas in the village required as per this chapter.
   (B)   Deciduous trees. Deciduous trees shall be species having an average
mature crown spread of greater than 15 feet in central Ohio and having trunks
which can be maintained with over five feet of clear wood in areas which have
visibility requirements, except at vehicular use area intersections where eight
foot clear wood requirements will control. Trees having an average mature
spread of crown less than 15 feet may be substituted by grouping of the same so
as to create the equivalent of a 15-foot crown spread. Appendix E, attached to
Ord. 96-152, passed October 7, 1996, contains a list of trees recommended as
appropriate for the village environment for landscaping and public places, and
such Appendix E is hereby adopted by reference and shall be treated as if set
forth in full herein.
   (C)   Evergreen trees. Evergreen trees shall be a minimum of five feet in
height with a minimum caliper of one and one-half inches at planting.
   (D)   Shrubs and hedges. Shrubs and hedges shall be at least two feet in
average height when planted.
   (E)   Earth mounds. Earth mounds shall be physical barriers which when
planted, block or screen the view just as a hedge or low wall would. Mounds
shall be constructed of clean fill, top soil, and similar materials, and shall
be designed with proper plant material to prevent erosion and facilitate
drainage. Earth mounds shall not exceed four feet in height and shall be
planted completely by plant material, which may include mulching limited to the
immediate base of plantings, of which no greater than 50% shall be turf.
   (F)   Screening materials. Screening may consist of walls, fences, natural
vegetation, or a combination thereof acceptable to the Planning Commission and
with an opacity of no less than 75%, except where superseded under §
153.276(F). Only masonry and brick walls or solid wood privacy fencing is
permitted for built screening. Such screening shall be between four and six
feet in height and shall be maintained in good condition. Landscaping provided
in lieu of such wall or fence shall consist of dense evergreen bushes planted
no less than four feet in height.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.278 SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Procedure. Landscaping plans shall be submitted to the Director
whenever an application is filed for a non-single-family use as a part of a
request for a certificate of zoning compliance, zoning map amendment,
conditional use permit, and in conjunction with the submittal requirements for
Planned Districts.
   (B)   Plan contents. The landscaping plan shall be prepared by a licensed
design professional or landscape professional and shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Plot plan drawn to scale indicating property lines, easements,
proposed improvements, natural features, drainage, adjacent uses and
structures, and proposed landscaping which shall include botanical and common
names, installation size, on-center planting dimensions where applicable, and a
summary of all landscaping materials used on-site, new and existing, by type,
common name, and quantity.
      (2)   In the case where trees are to be removed as part of any site
development, the plot plan shall, in addition to items included in division (B)
(1) above, also specifically indicate any trees to be removed and include
botanical and common names and location of any large trees and any significant
trees as defined in this chapter.
      (3)   Typical building elevations and/or cross sections with proposed
vegetation as may be required.
      (4)   Title block with the pertinent names and addresses of property
owner, applicant, design or landscape professional and state license number,
scale, date, north arrow, zoning district, and village.
   (C)   Criteria for review. The submitted landscaping plan shall be reviewed
to determine if proposed improvements comply with the requirements and
standards of this chapter and commonly accepted landscaping and design
standards. The Planning Commission and/or Director may call upon the Tree Board
or professional services from either the public or private sectors to provide
an evaluation relative to any submitted landscaping plan.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.279 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Installation. Landscaping plans and the improvements identified
therein meeting the requirements of this Zoning Code shall be completely
installed no later than six months subsequent to the date of issuance of a
building permit. A single three-month extension may be granted by the Director
upon request of the applicant upon demonstration that such extension is
warranted because of adverse weather conditions or unavailability of approved
landscaping material. All landscaping material shall be installed in a sound,
professional manner and according to accepted landscaping and planting
procedures.
   (B)   Maintenance. All landscaping material shall be maintained in proper
and healthful condition. Property owners shall maintain landscaped areas in a
proper, neat, and orderly appearance, and free from refuse and debris. The
village may call upon professionals from the public or private sectors to
prepare a determination, the cost of which is to be jointly born by the village
and applicant/owner, as to the quality of maintenance undertaken by the
applicant/owner and to forward a recommendation as to actions necessary to
ensure compliance with this chapter. Upon issuance of a citation, corrective
action shall be completed within 60 days unless the Director determines that
whether constraints require one additional 60-day period. Failure to meet the
requirements of this section shall constitute violation of this Zoning Code and
enforcement and penalty requirements of §§
153.030 through
153.045 and §
153.999 shall apply.
   (C)   Dead or diseased trees. It shall be unlawful for any property owner to
maintain or permit to stand on his or her property dead, diseased, damaged or
alive, trees, shrubs, evergreen, or other plants which are deemed by the
village to be a menace to the public peace, health, and safety.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.280 WOODLANDS.
   (A)   Purpose. The village recognizes the value of woodlands to the
community in providing a rich and varied environment, watershed cover, soil
protection, noise buffers, wildlife habitat, pollution purification, and a
continuous supply of pure oxygen. Poorly planned development can lead to
increased erosion and siltation, deterioration of water quality, loss of
landscape diversity, increased danger of flooding, and reduced recreational
opportunities. This section of this Zoning Code is intended to preserve and
protect the character and purpose of woodland areas.
   (B)   Definition. For the purposes of this chapter, a WOODLAND is defined as
an area or stand of trees the majority of which are greater than 12 inches
caliper measured four feet above grade and covering an area greater than one-
quarter acre; or groves of mature trees without regard to minimum area
consisting of more than ten individual specimens.
   (C)   Permitted uses. Land and buildings within woodlands shall be used only
for the following purposes:
      (1)   Single-family detached dwellings limited to minimum one acre lots
and the designation of permanent no-build zones amounting to 60% of each lot;
      (2)   Accessory buildings and uses in association with a permitted
dwelling;
      (3)   Home occupation in accordance with §
153.197;
      (4)   Public parks, open space, and nature areas; and
      (5)   Agricultural pursuits that do not reduce the tree cover, such as
maple sap tapping.
   (D)   Development standards. The following are minimum development
standards, except where noted, and shall apply within woodlands in addition to
the applicable development standards of the underlying zoning district.
      (1)   Maximum lot coverage for all structures and accessory buildings and
uses shall be 20%.
      (2)   On-site wastewater treatment and disposal and ground water
generation shall not be permitted.
      (3)   Soil types shall be appropriate and suitable for residential
development.
      (4)   Fire-retardant materials, as defined by the Warren County Building
and Electrical Code.
      (5)   Landscape materials shall be native to central Ohio.
      (6)   Applicable standards shall be met in corresponding provisions of
this chapter.
   (E)   Landscaping plan.
      (1)   The landscape plan, submittal requirements, and all other
requirements and standards of this section shall apply to all structures and
uses proposed within a woodland. The landscaping plan shall contain a natural
resources inventory showing type, size, and location of all existing vegetation
with a minimum caliper of six inches, and soil and topographical information.
      (2)   In reviewing the landscaping plan, the village may call upon the
Tree Board and professional services from either the public or private sectors
to assist in such evaluation.
   (F)   Variance. The Board of Zoning and Building Appeals may consider a
request for a variance of the strict application of the requirements of this
section; however, in doing so, the Board may only consider variances for
nonresidential zoning districts and in granting a variance shall require the
on-site comparable replacement of all removed trees as per the definition in
division (B) of this section.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 153.281 PUBLIC SPACES.
   (A)   Within the public right-of-way and on public properties, no person or
entity other than the village shall plant any tree, shrub, evergreen, or woody
shrub or other obstruction on public property, unless a street tree permit is
obtained. The enforcement provisions of §§
153.030 through
153.045 and §
153.999 shall apply to this section.
   (B)   Requirements for trees located on village-owned public property: the
following are requirements for the planting, pruning, and removal of trees
within village-owned property. For the purposes of this chapter, village-owned
property shall include all public ways, streets, alleys, parks, or other
property owned by the municipality.
      (1)   Requirements. It shall be required that all subdividers or
developers plant trees along the public streets of their developments in such a
manner, type, quantity, and location as approved by the Planning Commission and
as recommended by the Tree Board and as defined by the following conditions,
and that any undeveloped street or existing street with undeveloped frontage
shall conform to these requirements at the time of the development.
         (a)   The tree to be planted shall not be of an undesirable tree
species, as those listed in Appendix E, attached to Ord. 96-152, passed October
7, 1996 (Recommended Street Trees), which Appendix E is hereby adopted by
reference and shall be treated as if set forth in full herein.
         (b)   The minimum spacing between trees shall be 45 feet for large
trees, 35 feet for medium trees, and 25 feet for small trees.
         (c)   The maximum spacing between trees shall be 50 feet for large
trees, 40 feet for medium trees, and 30 feet for small trees.
         (d)   The minimum distance between the tree and the edge of the street
shall be two and one- half feet for a large tree, two feet for a medium tree,
and one and one-half feet for a small tree. In areas where a sidewalk exists or
is proposed, the minimum distance between the tree trunk and both the edge of
the street and the sidewalks shall be two feet for a large tree, two feet for a
medium tree, and one and one-half feet for a small tree.
         (e)   The location of the tree shall be at least 20 feet from street
intersections and ten feet from fire hydrants or utility poles.
         (f)   A small tree shall be used when planting under or within ten
lateral feet of overhead utility wires. A small or medium tree shall be used
when planting within ten to 20 lateral feet of overhead utility wires.
         (g)   Developers shall be required to maintain the trees planted by
them for one year after the trees are planted and to replace any tree which
fails to survive or does not exhibit normal growth characteristics of health
and vigor within such one-year period. A one-year guarantee period shall begin
at each planting and shall recommence as trees are replaced. Upon completion of
the planting of street trees, the landscape contractor shall contact the
Director who will contact the Chairperson of the Tree Board to schedule a
preliminary site inspection. The one-year guarantee period shall begin on the
date of the approval by the Street Tree Advisory Board. A final inspection
shall be made at the end of the guarantee period. All trees not exhibiting a
healthy, vigorous growing condition, as determined by the inspection of the
Street Tree Advisory Board and the Zoning Director, shall be promptly replaced
at the expense of the developer.
         (h)   The trees should be of one and the same genus and species and
planted continuously down each street as recommended by the Waynesville Street
Tree Master Plan.
         (i)   The minimum trunk caliper measured at six inches above the
ground for all street trees shall be no less than one and three-fourths inches.
      (2)   Tree topping. No person shall, as a normal practice, top any tree
within the public right-of- way. Topping is defined as the severe cutting back
of limbs to stubs larger than three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown
to such a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
      (3)   Height of limbs over sidewalks and streets. Tree limbs extending
over a sidewalk shall be trimmed to such an extent that no portion of the same
shall be less than seven feet above the sidewalk. Tree limbs extending over
streets shall be trimmed to such an extent that no portion of the same shall
interfere with the normal flow of traffic.
      (4)   Municipal rights. The municipality shall have the right to plant,
prune, maintain, and remove trees, plants, and shrubs within the lines of all
streets, alleys, avenues, lanes, and other public grounds as may be necessary
to ensure public safety or to preserve or enhance the environmental quality and
beauty of such public grounds. A street tree permit shall be obtained prior to
commencement of work. The Zoning Director may cause or order to be removed any
tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its
nature poses a threat to the interruption of service to sewers, electric power
lines, gas lines, water lines, or other public improvements.
      (5)   Reducing tree lawn. No person shall by any type of construction
reduce the size of a tree lawn without first securing permission from the
Planning Commission.
      (6)   Violations. A person who removes, damages, or causes to be removed
a street tree from the tree lawn or other public place without a street tree
permit shall be subject to the provisions and penalties of this Zoning Code of
the village and/or shall be required to remove and the replace the tree with a
tree of like caliper as approved by the Director.
      (7)   Permit requirements.
         (a)   No person, contractor, or village department shall hereafter
plant, remove, prune, or treat with growth inhibiting measures, any tree or
shrub upon any public way, street, alley, park, or other property owned by the
village, without obtaining a street tree permit, except in the case of a bona
fide emergency situation such as a limb or other part of a street tree being
within the traffic way or as may be determined by the Mayor in the capacity as
conservator of the peace and administrative officer of the village. In which
case, any public utility may act in response to the emergency but must report
such actions for a determination of “emergency” by the Mayor. A street tree
permit shall specify number of trees or shrubs, size, type, species, and
location to be planted, pruned, or removed. When a permit is issued to a
individual or contractor, it is the responsibility of the permit holder to
contact “OUPS” or its succeeding entity, South Central Power, and Waynesville
Utilities.
         (b)   The Director has the authority to deny a permit to any person or
contractor who proposes to plant any tree or shrub upon a public way, street,
alley, park, or other property owned by the village, of a size, type, or
species determined to be undesirable for the proposed location, or if the
location is determined to be unsuitable.
         (c)   Applications for street tree permits shall be made on forms
prescribed by the Director and shall include the following information:
            1.   Written description of the purpose of the permit and the
location for which the permit is sought;
            2.   Specification of the species, cultivar, and genus of the tree
which is the subject of the permit application; and
            3.   Description of the method proposed to accomplish the permit
and, in the case of a proposal to remove an existing tree, the authorization as
a representative of a certified arborist, and in the case of a proposal to
plant or prune, the signature of the permit holder agreeing to comply with the
National Arborist Standards.
         (d)   Street tree permits shall be valid for a maximum period of 60
days unless otherwise specified. All work approved by the permit shall be
completed in the time specified by the permit and in the manner described.
Permits shall be considered void if the terms are violated. Additional permits
are required to be obtained from the Utilities Superintendent to work within a
public right-of-way.
         (e)   Street tree permits shall be administered by the Zoning
Director. The Director shall refer all applications for street tree permits to
the Street Tree Advisory Board for its review and recommendations. Each
location subject to a public tree permit shall be field inspected by the Tree
Board or appropriate designee prior to the submission of a written
recommendation to the Director. All permits for pruning of street trees shall
show conformance with the National Arborist Association Pruning Standards for
Shade Trees.
         (f)   Utility companies shall provide written evidence to the
Director, of adherence to established guidelines (as recommended by the
National Arborists Association) for line clearance work. These guidelines shall
cover the following areas:
            1.   Tree trimming/pruning;
            2.   Tree removal;
            3.   Brushing;
            4.   Right-of-way clearance for new transmission conductors on
private rights-of-way.; and
            5.   Chemical brush control and appropriate precautions.
      (8)   Removal, replanting, and replacement in public places.
         (a)   Wherever it is necessary to remove a tree or shrub from any
village-owned property, in connection with the paving of a sidewalk, or the
paving or widening of a portion of a street, alley, or highway used for
vehicular traffic, or any other reason, the person responsible for the paving,
widening, or other activity shall endeavor to remove and replant such trees or
shrubs, or replace them. No permit shall be issued for any tree over 12 inches
in caliper or 30 years in age shall be removed or issued a street tree permit
without prior public review by the Tree Board at its regularly scheduled
meeting.
         (b)   No adjacent property owner shall remove or cause to be removed
any trees or shrubs from the village-owned tree lawn, or other public place, as
defined, for any purpose.
      (9)   Public tree care.
         (a)   The village shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain, and
remove trees, plants, and shrubs or portions thereof within village-owned
property as may be necessary to ensure public safety or to preserve or enhance
the health of the plant material or the beauty of such public grounds.
         (b)   The Tree Board or its consultants shall recommend to the
Director those locations at which it deems the removal of street trees is
necessary. The Director will notify the adjacent property owners of the
village’s intentions to remove the trees. This section does not prohibit the
planting of street trees by adjacent property owners providing that the
permission of the Director and the recommendations of the Tree Board or
designee have been granted by the issuance of a street tree permit.
         (c)   The village shall have the right to enter private property to
access trees adjacent to public areas for the purpose of proper pruning, after
reasonable prior notice has been given to the property owner. To ensure that
street trees thrive, homeowners are encouraged to confer with the Tree Board
and water the trees as needed.
         (d)   Unless issued a written permit by the Director, no person shall
attach any rope, wire, nails, advertising poster, or other contrivance to any
tree on village-owned property. No person shall permit any fire to burn where
such fire or heat therefrom, or heat from any source will injure any portion of
any tree on village-owned property. Without a permit, no person shall use
herbicides or other chemicals on any trees, shrubs, or evergreens on village-
owned property.
         (e)   No person shall hinder, prevent, or interfere with the agents or
employees of the village while the agents or employees are engaged in planting,
maintaining, or removing any tree, shrub, evergreen, or other plant material on
village-owned property.
         (f)   No person shall excavate any ditch, tunnel, trench, or lay any
drive within a radius of ten feet from any tree, shrub, evergreen, or other
plant material standing on any village-owned property without first obtaining a
permit from the Director.
         (g)   It shall be unlawful for any person to break, deface, injure,
mutilate, kill, or destroy any tree, shrub, or evergreen on any village-owned
property (see §
131.21 of these codified ordinances).
      (10)   Removal of stumps. All stumps of street trees shall be removed 12
inches below the surface of the ground. Stumps shall be removed or shall be
ground at the site. All residual material shall be removed from the site at the
time the tree is removed and the site shall be restored as approved in the
street tree permit.
      (11)   Arborist license and bond. It shall be unlawful for any person or
contractor to act as an arborist in the business or occupation of pruning,
treating, or removing street trees within the village without providing
documentation as a certified arborist or as the authorized representative of a
certified arborist. Each applicant shall file evidence of possession of
liability insurance in the minimum amount of $1,000,000 indemnifying the
village or any person injured or damaged resulting from the pursuit of such
endeavors as herein described.
      (12)   Appeal procedures. Any applicant aggrieved by a decision of the
Zoning Director with respect to a street tree permit may appeal the decision to
the Board of Zoning and Housing Appeals as prescribed in §
153.039(F).
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   For the first violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure
to comply with any of its requirements, upon conviction thereof, any person may
be fined not more than $50 per day.
   (B)   Each day any such violation continues after receipt of a violation
notice shall constitute a separate offense. The owner or tenant of any
building, structure, premises, or part thereof, and any architect, builder,
contractor, agent, or other person who commits, participates in, assists in, or
maintains such violation, may each be found guilty of a separate offense and
suffer the penalties herein provided. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the
village from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violations.
(Ord. 96-152, passed 10-7-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Violation of zoning ordinance, see R.C. § 713.13
CHAPTER 154: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
Administration
   
154.001   Title
   
154.002   Scope
   
154.003   Intent
   
154.004   Referenced standards
   
154.005   Existing remedies
   
154.006   Workmanship
   
154.007   Application of other codes
Validity
   
154.020   Validity
   
154.021   Saving clause
Duties and Powers of the Code Official
   
154.030   General
   
154.031   Modifications
   
154.032   Notices and orders
   
154.033   Right of entry
   
154.034   Access by owner or operator
   
154.035   Identification
   
154.036   Coordination of enforcement
   
154.037   Relief from personal responsibility
Violations
   
154.050   Unlawful acts
   
154.051   Penalty
   
154.052   Prosecution
Notices and Orders
   
154.060   Notice to owner or to person or persons responsible
   
154.061   Form
   
154.062   Method of service
   
154.063   Repeat violators
   
154.064   Penalties
   
154.065   Transfer of ownership
Unsafe Structures and Equipment
   
154.075   General
   
154.076   Abandonment of construction project
   
154.077   Closing of vacant structures
   
154.078   Notice
   
154.079   Placarding
   
154.080   Prohibited occupancy
Emergency Measures
   
154.090   Imminent danger
   
154.091   Temporary safeguards
   
154.092   Closing streets
   
154.093   Emergency repairs
   
154.094   Costs of emergency repairs
   
154.095   Hearing
Demolition
   
154.105   General
   
154.106   Order
   
154.107   Failure to comply
   
154.108   Salvage materials
Means of Appeal
   
154.120   Appeals general
Definitions
   
154.130   Scope
   
154.131   Interchangeability
   
154.132   Terms defined in other codes
   
154.133   Terms not defined
   
154.134   Parts
   
154.135   General definitions
General Requirements
   
154.145   Scope
   
154.146   Responsibility
   
154.147   Vacant structures and land
Exterior Property Areas
   
154.160   Sanitation
   
154.161   Parking
   
154.162   Outdoor storage
   
154.163   Defacement of property
   
154.164   Grading and drainage
   
154.165   Sidewalks and driveways
   
154.166   Vermin harborage
   
154.167   Exhaust vents
   
154.168   Accessory structures
   
154.169   Weeds
   
154.170   Trimming or removal of trees, plants and shrubbery
   
154.171   Storage of junk, disabled vehicles and rubbish on premises
Exterior Structure
   
154.185   General
   
154.186   Exterior of premises
   
154.187   Structural members
   
154.188   Foundation walls
   
154.189   Exterior walls
   
154.190   Roofs and drainage
   
154.191   Decorative features
   
154.192   Overhang extensions
   
154.193   Stairways, decks, porches, and balconies
   
154.194   Chimneys and towers
   
154.195   Handrails and guards
   
154.196   Window and door frames
   
154.197   Insect screens
   
154.198   Doors
   
154.199   Basement entrances
   
154.200   Guards for basement windows
Rubbish and Garbage
   
154.210   Accumulation of rubbish or garbage
   
154.211   Disposal of rubbish or garbage
Extermination
   
154.220   Infestation
   
154.221   Owner
   
154.222   Single occupant
   
154.223   Multiple occupancy
   
154.224   Occupant
Interior Structure
   
154.235   General
   
154.236   Structural members
   
154.237   Interior surfaces
Sanitary and Storm Drainage Requirements
   
154.250   Sanitary drainage system
   
154.251   Storm drainage
Fire Safety Requirements
   
154.260   General
   
154.261   Responsibility
   
154.262   Accumulations
   
154.263   Hazardous material
Referenced Standards
   
154.275   Building and Fire Codes
Cross-reference:
   Subdivision regulations, see
Chapter 152
   Zoning Code, see
Chapter 153
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.001 TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known as “the Property Maintenance Code of the
Village of Waynesville”, hereinafter referred to as “this code”.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.002 SCOPE.
   This code is to protect the public health, safety, and welfare in all
existing structures, residential and nonresidential, and on all existing
premises by establishing minimum requirements and standards for premises,
structures, equipment, heating, sanitation, protection from the elements, life
safety, safety from fire and other hazards, and for safe and sanitary
maintenance; fixing the responsibility of owners, operators, and occupants;
regulating the occupancy of existing structures and premises, and providing for
administration, enforcement, and penalties. Additional purposes of this code
are to conserve and protect the value of premises, to protect and improve
aesthetic aspects of premises and the village, and to provide for protection
against and elimination of nuisances.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.003 INTENT.
   This code shall be construed to secure its expressed intent, which is to
ensure public health, safety, and welfare insofar as they are affected by the
continued occupancy and maintenance of structures and premises. Existing
structures and premises that do not comply with these provisions shall be
altered or repaired to provide a minimum level of health and safety as required
herein.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.004 REFERENCED STANDARDS.
   The standards referenced in this code and listed in §
154.275 shall be considered part of the requirements of this code to the
prescribed extent of each such reference. Where differences occur between
provisions of this code and referenced standards, the provisions of this code
shall apply.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.005 EXISTING REMEDIES.
   The provisions in this code shall not be construed to abolish or impair
existing remedies of the jurisdiction or its officers or agencies relating to
the removal or demolition of any structure, which is dangerous, unsafe, and
unsanitary.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.006 WORKMANSHIP.
   All repairs, maintenance work, alterations, or installations which are
caused, directly or indirectly, by the enforcement of this code shall be
executed and installed in a workmanlike manner.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.007 APPLICATION OF OTHER CODES.
   Any repairs, additions, or alterations to a structure, or changes of
occupancy, shall be done in accordance with the procedures and provisions of
the building, plumbing and mechanical codes and NFPA 70.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
VALIDITY
§ 154.020 VALIDITY.
   If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this
code shall be declared invalid for any reason whatsoever, such decision shall
not affect the remaining portions of this code, which shall continue in full
force and effect, and to this end the provisions of this code are hereby
declared to be severable.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.021 SAVING CLAUSE.
   This code shall not affect violations of any other ordinance, code, or
regulation existing prior to the effective date hereof, and any such violation
shall be governed and shall continue to be punishable to the full extent of the
law under the provisions of those ordinances, codes, or regulations in effect
at the time the violation was committed.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE CODE OFFICIAL
§ 154.030 GENERAL.
   The Code Official, Village Manager, or his or her designee, shall enforce
all of the provisions of this code.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.031 MODIFICATIONS.
   Where there are practical difficulties involved in carrying out provisions
of this code, the Code Official shall have the right to vary or modify such
provisions upon application of the owner or the owner’s representative,
provided that the spirit and intent of the law is observed and that the public
health, safety, and welfare is assured.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.032 NOTICES AND ORDERS.
   The Code Official shall issue all necessary notices or orders to ensure
compliance with the code.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.033 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Code Official is authorized to enter the structure or premises at
reasonable times to inspect subject to constitutional restrictions on
unreasonable searches and seizures. If entry is refused or not obtained, the
Code Official is authorized to pursue recourse as provided by law. Whenever
necessary for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of the Property
Maintenance Code or whenever there exists any cause for investigation of a
complaint or suspected violation, the Code Official or his or her designee may
enter such property at all reasonable times to inspect the same or to perform
any duty imposed on the Code Official by the code, provided that if such
property be occupied he or she shall first present proper credentials and
request entry. If no response is received to the request for entry, the Code
Official or his or her designee shall leave notice reasonably calculated to
advise of impending inspection and the means by which the village may be
contacted with regard to such inspection. If no objection is made to the
village, the Code Official or his or her designee shall proceed with the
inspection as stated in the notice. If such entry is refused, the Code Official
or his or her designee shall have recourse to every remedy at law to affect
such entry.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.034 ACCESS BY OWNER OR OPERATOR.
   Every occupant of a structure or premises shall give the Code Official
access to any part of such structure or its premises at reasonable times for
the purpose of making such inspection, maintenance, repairs, or alterations as
are necessary to comply with the provisions of this code. The Code Official
shall be deemed to be an agent of the owner or operator to the extent the owner
or operator has agreed to allow the Code Official access to the structure or
premises.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.035 IDENTIFICATION.
   The Code Official shall carry proper identification when inspecting
structures or premises in the performance of duties under this code.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.036 COORDINATION OF ENFORCEMENT.
   Inspection of premises, the issuance of notices and orders, and enforcement
thereof shall be the responsibility of the Code Official so charged by the
jurisdiction. Whenever inspections are necessary by any other department, the
Code Official shall make reasonable effort to arrange for the coordination of
such inspections so as to minimize the number of visits by inspectors, and to
confer with the other departments for the purpose of eliminating conflicting
orders before any are issued. A department shall not, however, delay the
issuance of any emergency orders.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.037 RELIEF FROM PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The Code Official, officer, or employee charged with the enforcement
of this code, while acting for the jurisdiction, shall not thereby be rendered
liable personally, and is hereby relieved from all personal liability for any
damage accruing to persons or property as a result of any act required or
permitted in the discharge of official duties. Any suit instituted against an
officer or employee because of an act performed by that officer or employee in
the lawful discharge of duties and under the provisions of this code shall be
defended by the legal representative of the jurisdiction until the final
termination of the proceedings.
   (B)   The Code Official or any subordinate shall not be liable for costs in
any action, suit, or proceeding that is instituted in pursuance of the
provisions of this code; and any officer of the department of building
inspection, acting in good faith and without malice, shall be free from
liability for acts performed under any of its provisions or by reason of any
act or omission in the performance of official duties in connection therewith.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
VIOLATIONS
§ 154.050 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to erect,
construct, alter, extend, repair, remove, demolish, maintain, fail to maintain,
provide, fail to provide, occupy, let to another, or occupy or permit another
person to occupy any premises, property, structure, or equipment regulated by
this code, or cause same to be done, contrary to or in conflict with or in
violation of any of the provisions of this code, or to fail to obey a lawful
order of the Code Official, or to remove or deface a placard or notice posted
under the provisions of this code.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.051 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to the following penalties:
   (A)   For the first offense: a minor misdemeanor;
   (B)   For the second offense (whether or not of the same section of the
Property Maintenance Code) occurring not sooner than 20 days and not later than
two years after the first offense: a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; and
   (C)   For the third offense (whether or not of the same section of the
Property Maintenance Code) occurring not sooner than 20 days of the second
offense and not later than two years after the first offense; a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.052 PROSECUTION.
   In case of any unlawful acts the Code Official may institute an appropriate
action or proceeding at law to exact the penalty provided in §
154.051. Also, the Code Official may ask the jurisdiction’s legal
representative to proceed at law or in equity against the person responsible
for the violation for the purpose of ordering that person:
   (A)   To restrain, correct, or remove the violation or refrain from any
further execution of work;
   (B)   To restrain or correct the erection, installation, maintenance,
repair, or alteration of such structure;
   (C)   To require the removal of work in violation; or
   (D)   To prevent the occupancy of the structure that is not in compliance
with the provisions of this code.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
NOTICES AND ORDERS
§ 154.060 NOTICE TO OWNER OR TO PERSON OR PERSONS RESPONSIBLE.
   Whenever the Code Official determines that there has been a violation of
this code or has grounds to believe that a violation has occurred, notice shall
be given to the owner or the person or persons responsible therefor in the
manner prescribed in §§
154.061 and
154.062. Notices for condemnation procedures shall also comply with §§
154.061 and
154.062.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.061 FORM.
   Such notice prescribed in §
154.060 shall:
   (A)   Be in writing;
   (B)   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
   (C)   Include a statement of the reason or reasons why the notice is being
issued; and
   (D)   Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time for the repairs
and improvements required to bring the dwelling unit or structure into
compliance with the provisions of this code.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.062 METHOD OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Such notice shall be deemed to be properly served if a copy thereof
is:
      (1)   Delivered to the owner personally;
      (2)   Sent by certified or registered mail addressed to the owner at the
last known address with return receipt requested; or
      (3)   Posted at the usual place of residence or usual place of business
of the owner, agent, lessee, occupant, or person having the care or management
of such premises.
   (B)   Service of such notice in the foregoing manner upon the owner’s agent
or upon the person responsible for the structure shall constitute service of
notice upon the owner.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.063 REPEAT VIOLATORS.
   For the second violation of the same general character occurring not sooner
than 20 days and not later than two years after the first violation, the
written statement may be omitted and a violation notice specifying that the
violation shall be corrected within 24 hours of receipt of said violation
notice may be sent. If the violation is not corrected by the specified
compliance date, appropriate action or proceeding may be instituted in a court
of proper jurisdiction. For the third violation of the same general character
occurring not sooner than 20 days after the second violation and not later than
two years after the first violation, appropriate action or proceeding may be
instituted immediately in a court of proper jurisdiction without notification
to the property owner.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.064 PENALTIES.
   Penalties for noncompliance with orders and notices shall be as set forth in
§
154.051.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.065 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling unit or structure who has
received a compliance order or upon whom a notice of violation has been served
to sell, transfer, mortgage, lease or otherwise dispose of to another until the
provisions of the compliance order or notice of violation have been complied
with, or until such owner shall first furnish the grantee, transferee or lessee
a true copy of any compliance order or notice of violation issued by the Code
Official and shall furnish to the Code Official a signed and notarized
statement from the grantee, transferee or lessee, acknowledging the receipt of
such compliance order or notice of violation and fully accepting the
responsibility without condition for making the corrections or repairs required
by such compliance order or notice of violation.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
UNSAFE STRUCTURES AND EQUIPMENT
§ 154.075 GENERAL.
   (A)   General. When a structure or equipment is found by the Code Official
to be unsafe, or when a structure is found unfit for human occupancy, a public
nuisance, or is found unlawful, such structure shall be condemned pursuant to
the provisions of this code.
   (B)   Unsafe structure. An unsafe structure is one that is found to be
dangerous to the life, health, property, or safety of the public or the
occupants of the structure by not providing minimum safeguards to protect the
public or the occupants or because such structure contains unsafe equipment or
is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe, or of such faulty
construction or unstable foundation, that it creates a safety hazard.
   (C)   Unsafe equipment. Unsafe equipment includes any boiler, heating
equipment, elevator, moving stairway, electrical wiring or device, flammable
liquid containers, or other equipment on the premises or within the structure
which is in such disrepair or condition that such equipment is a hazard to
life, health, property, or safety of the public or occupants of the premises or
structure.
   (D)   Structure unfit for human occupancy. A structure is unfit for human
occupancy whenever the Code Official finds that such structure is unsafe,
unlawful or, because of the degree to which the structure is in disrepair or
lacks maintenance, is unsanitary, vermin or rat infested, contains filth and
contamination, or lacks ventilation, illumination, sanitary or heating
facilities or other essential equipment required by this code, or because the
location of the structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants of the
structure or to the public.
   (E)   Unlawful structure. An unlawful structure is one found in whole or in
part to be a public nuisance, or which was erected, altered or occupied
contrary to law.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.076 ABANDONMENT OF CONSTRUCTION PROJECT.
   Any building or structure for which a building permit has been issued, and
except for circumstances beyond the property owner’s control (e.g., labor
strikes, inclement weather and the like), all construction work shall be
diligently pursued to completion. Any construction project, upon which no
substantial work has been undertaken for a period of 120 days, shall be deemed
abandoned. Upon any construction project being deemed abandoned, all buildings
or structures not completed to the degree such buildings or structures have
been indicated on the plans submitted in support of a building permit, and all
building materials and construction equipment shall be removed from the site or
declared a public nuisance.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.077 CLOSING OF VACANT STRUCTURES.
   (A)   General. If the structure is vacant and unfit for human habitation
and/or occupancy, and is not in danger of structural collapse, the Code
Official is authorized to post a placard of condemnation on the premises and
order the structure closed up so as not to be an attractive nuisance.
   (B)   Storage. No outdoor storage of any type, no vehicles of any type nor
any portable or movable object may be stored on the premises except within a
completely enclosed structure.
   (C)   Method of closure. If a building remains vacant for a period of six
months, the doors and windows of the building shall be closed by durable means
such as plywood which shall be painted the same color as the building so as not
to be obtrusive.
   (D)   Failure to comply. Upon failure of the owner to close up the premises
within the time specified in the order, the Code Official may cause the
premises to be closed through any available public agency or by contract or
arrangement by private persons and the cost thereof shall be charged against
the real estate upon which the structure is located and shall be a lien upon
such real estate.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.078 NOTICE.
   Whenever the Code Official has condemned a structure or equipment under the
provisions of this section, notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or
about the structure affected by such notice and served on the owner or the
person or persons responsible for the structure or equipment in accordance with
§
154.062. The notice shall be in the form prescribed in §
154.061.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.079 PLACARDING.
   (A)   General. Upon failure of the owner or person responsible to comply
with the notice provisions within the time given, the Code Official shall post
on the premises or on defective equipment, a placard bearing the word
“Condemned” and a statement of the penalties provided for occupying the
premises, operating the equipment or removing the placard.
   (B)   Removal of placard. The Code Official shall remove the condemnation
placard whenever the defect or defects upon which the condemnation and
placarding action were based have been eliminated. Any person who defaces or
removes a condemnation placard without the approval of the Code Official shall
be subject to the penalties provided by this code.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.080 PROHIBITED OCCUPANCY.
   Any person who shall occupy a placarded premises, or shall operate placarded
equipment, and any owner or any person responsible for the premises who shall
let anyone occupy a placarded premises or operate placarded equipment shall be
liable for the penalties provided by this code.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
EMERGENCY MEASURES
§ 154.090 IMMINENT DANGER.
   When, in the opinion of the Code Official, there is imminent danger of
failure or collapse of a building or structure which endangers life, or when
any structure or part of a structure has fallen and life is endangered by the
occupation of the structure, or when there is actual or potential danger to the
building occupants or those in the proximity of any structure because of
explosives, explosive fumes or vapors or the presence of toxic fumes, gases or
materials, or operation of defective or dangerous equipment, the Code Official
is hereby authorized and empowered to order and require the occupants to vacate
the premises forthwith. The Code Official shall cause to be posted at each
entrance to such structure a notice reading as follows: “This Structure is
Unsafe and its Occupancy has been Prohibited by the Code Official.” It shall be
unlawful for any person to enter such structure except for the purpose of
securing the structure, making the required repairs, removing the hazardous
condition, or of demolishing the same.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.091 TEMPORARY SAFEGUARDS.
   Notwithstanding other provisions of this code, whenever, in the opinion of
the Code Official, there is imminent danger due to an unsafe condition, the
Code Official is hereby authorized and empowered to order the necessary work to
be done, including the boarding up of opening, to render such structure
temporarily safe whether or not the legal procedure herein described has been
instituted; and is hereby authorized and empowered to cause such other action
to be taken as the Code Official deems necessary to meet such emergency.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.092 CLOSING STREETS.
   When necessary for the public safety, the Code Official is authorized and
empowered to temporarily close structures and close, or order the authority
having jurisdiction to close, sidewalks, streets, public ways, and places
adjacent to unsafe structures, and prohibit the same from being utilized.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.093 EMERGENCY REPAIRS.
   For the purposes of this section, the Code Official is hereby authorized and
empowered to employ, subject to compliance with Village Charter and ordinance
requirements as to making contracts or financial commitments on behalf of the
village, the necessary labor and materials to perform the required work as
expeditiously as possible.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.094 COSTS OF EMERGENCY REPAIRS.
   Costs incurred in the performance of emergency work may be paid from the
treasury of the village on approval of the Code Official, subject with
compliance with Village Charter and ordinance requirements as to making
contracts or financial commitments on behalf of the village. The legal counsel
of the village may institute appropriate action against the owner of the
premises where the unsafe structure is or was located for the recovery of such
costs. The costs of such emergency work to correct hazardous conditions shall
be certified by the Finance Director of the village to the County Auditor as a
tax lien upon the premises in the manner provided in R.C. § 715.261. Based on
the emergency nature of such costs, notice to owners and lien holders of the
emergency work may be given by other than that prescribed in §§
154.060 through
154.065, or may be dispensed with entirely. If no advance notice at all is
given, however, the lien authorized by R.C. § 715.261 for such costs shall be
subordinate to any liens of prior record.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.095 HEARING.
   Any person ordered to take emergency measures shall comply with such order
forthwith. Any affected person shall thereafter, upon petition be directed to
the Board of Appeals. See §
154.120.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
DEMOLITION
§ 154.105 GENERAL.
   The Code Official shall order the owner of any premises upon which is
located any structure, which in the Code Official’s judgement is so dilapidated
or has become so out of repair as to be dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary, or
otherwise unfit for human habitation or occupancy, and such that it is
unreasonable to repair the structure, to raze and remove such structure; or if
such structure is capable of being made safe by repairs, to repair and make
safe and sanitary or to raze and remove at the owner’s option; or where there
has been a cessation of normal construction of any structure for a period of
more than one year, to raze and remove such structure.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.106 ORDER.
   All notices and orders shall comply with §§
154.060 through
154.065.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.107 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   If the owner of a premises fails to comply with a demolition order within
the time prescribed, the Code Official may cause the structure to be razed and
removed, either through an available public agency or by contract or
arrangement with private persons, and the cost of such razing and removal shall
be charged against the real estate upon which the structure is located and
shall be a lien upon such real estate.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.108 SALVAGE MATERIALS.
   When any structure has been ordered razed and removed, the governing body or
other designated officer under said contract or arrangement aforesaid shall
have the right to sell the salvage and valuable materials at the highest price
obtainable. The net proceeds of such sale, after deducting the expenses of such
razing and removal, shall be promptly remitted with a report of such sale or
transaction, including the items of expense and the amounts deducted, to the
person who is entitled thereto, subject to any order of a court. If such a
surplus does not remain to be turned over, the report shall so state.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
MEANS OF APPEAL
§ 154.120 APPEALS GENERAL.
   Any person directly affected by a decision of the Code Official or a notice
or order issued under this code shall have the right to appeal to the Board of
Appeals, provided that a written application for appeal is filed within 20 days
after the day the decision, notice or order was served. An application for
appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules
legally adopted there under have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions
of this code do not fully apply, or the requirements of this code are
adequately satisfied by other means, or that the strict application of any
requirement of this code would cause an undue hardship.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
Cross-reference:
   Subdivisions, appeals, see §
152.121
DEFINITIONS
§ 154.130 SCOPE.
   Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms shall, for the
purposes of this code, have the meanings shown in this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.131 INTERCHANGEABILITY.
   Words stated in the present tense include the future; words stated in the
masculine gender include the feminine and neuter; the singular number includes
the plural and the plural the singular.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.132 TERMS DEFINED IN OTHER CODES.
   Where terms are not defined in this code and are defined in the codes listed
in §
154.275, such terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them as in those codes.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.133 TERMS NOT DEFINED.
   Where terms are not defined, through the methods authorized by this section,
such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings such as the context implies.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.134 PARTS.
   Whenever the words “dwelling unit”, “dwelling”, “premises”, “building”,
“rooming house”, “rooming unit”, or “story” are stated in this code, they shall
be construed as though they were followed by the words “or any part thereof”.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.135 GENERAL DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED. Approved by the Code Official.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a building, which is partly or completely below
grade.
   BLIGHTING. An impairing or frustrating influence; a deteriorated condition.
   BUILDING. Any structure occupied or intended for supporting or sheltering
any occupancy.
   BUILDING CODE. The Building Code officially adopted by the legislative body
of this jurisdiction, or other such codes officially designated by the
legislative body of the jurisdiction for the regulation of construction,
alteration, addition, repair, removal, demolition, location, occupancy, and
maintenance of buildings and structures.
   CODE OFFICIAL. The Village Manager or his or her designee who is charged
with the administration and enforcement of this code.
   CONDEMN. To adjudge unfit for occupancy.
   CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS. All the written, graphic, and pictorial documents
prepared or assembled for describing the design, location, and physical
characteristics of the elements of the project necessary for obtaining a
building permit. The construction drawings shall be drawn to an appropriate
scale.
   DISABLED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any used vehicle propelled or intended to be
propelled by power other than human power and which is in an inoperative or
partially dismantled condition. Portions of disabled motor vehicles, including,
but not limited to, hoods, fenders, radiators, rims, or motor parts not being
utilized for the repair of a motor vehicle, shall be considered junk.
   DORMITORY. A space in a building where group-sleeping accommodations are
provided in one room, or in a series of closely associated rooms, for persons
not members of the same family group.
   DWELLING. Any building, which contains one or two “dwelling units” used,
intended, or designed to be built, used, rented, leased, let or hired out to be
occupied, or which is occupied for living purposes.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation.
   EXTERIOR PROPERTY. The open space on the premises and on adjoining property
under the control of owners or operators of such premises.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rats, or other pests
by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that serve as their food; by poison spraying, fumigating, trapping,
or by any other approved pest elimination methods.
   FAMILY. An individual or married couple and the children thereof with not
more than two other persons related directly to the individual or married
couple by blood or marriage; or a group of not more than five unrelated
persons, living together as a single housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
   HABITABLE SPACE. Space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating, or
cooking. Bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls, storage or utility spaces,
and similar areas are not considered HABITABLE SPACES.
   HOTEL. Any building containing six or more guestrooms, intended or designed
to be occupied, or which are rented or hired out to be occupied, for sleeping
purposes by guests.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or contiguous to, a structure or premises
of insects, rats, vermin, or other pests.
   INSPECTION CERTIFICATE. Identification applied on a product by an approved
agency containing the name of the manufacturer, the function and performance
characteristics, and the name and identification of an approved agency which
indicates that the product or material has been inspected and evaluated by an
approved agency.
   JUNK. Any worn out, cast off, or discarded article or material which is
ready for destruction or has been collected or stored for salvage or conversion
to some other use. Any article of material which, unaltered or unchanged and
without further reconditioning, can be used for its original purpose as readily
as when new shall not be considered JUNK.
   LABEL. An identification applied on a product by the manufacturer which
contains the name of the manufacturer, the function and performance
characteristics of the product or material, and the name and identification of
an approved agency and which indicates that the representative sample of the
product or material has been tested and evaluated by an approved agency (see §
1704.0 of the Building Code, and also MARK, MANUFACTURER’S DESIGNATION, and
INSPECTION CERTIFICATE.)
   LET FOR OCCUPANCY or LET. To permit, provide, or offer possession or
occupancy of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, building, premise, or
structure by a person who is or is not the legal owner of record thereof,
pursuant to a written or unwritten lease, agreement or license, or pursuant to
a recorded or unrecorded agreement of contract for the sale of land.
   MANUFACTURER’S DESIGNATION. An identification applied on a product by the
manufacturer indicating that a product or material complies with a specified
standard or set of rules (see also MARK, LABEL, and INSPECTION CERTIFICATE).
   MARK. An identification applied on a product by the manufacturer indicating
the name of the manufacturer and the function of a product or material (see
also MANUFACTURER’S DESIGNATION, LABEL, and INSPECTION CERTIFICATE.)
   OCCUPANCY. The purpose for which a building or portion thereof is utilized
or occupied.
   OCCUPANT. Any person living or sleeping in a building; or having possession
of a space within a building.
   ONE-FAMILY DWELLING. A building containing one dwelling unit with not more
than five lodgers or boarders.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care, or control of a structure or
premises which is let or offered for occupancy.
   OWNER. The owner or owners of the deed or freehold of the premises or lesser
estate therein, contract buyer, a mortgagee or vendee in possession, assignee
of rents, receiver, executor, administrator, trustee, lessee, or other person,
firm, or corporation in control of a premises; or their duly authorized agents.
Any such person thus representing the OWNER shall be bound to comply with the
provisions of this chapter to the same extent as if he or she were the OWNER.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, or any other group acting
as a unit.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot, or parcel of land including any structures thereon.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Includes any of the following;
      (1)   The physical condition or occupancy of any premises regarded as a
public nuisance at common law;
      (2)   Any physical condition or occupancy of any premises or its
appurtenances considered an attractive nuisance to children, including, but not
limited to, abandoned wells, shafts, basements, excavations, and unsafe fences
or structures;
      (3)   Any premises that has unsanitary sewerage or plumbing facilities;
      (4)   Any premises designated as unsafe for human habitation;
      (5)   Any premises that is manifestly capable of being a fire hazard, or
are manifestly unsafe or unsecured so as to endanger life, limb, or property;
      (6)   Any premises from which the plumbing, heating, or facilities
required by this code have been removed, or from which utilities have been
disconnected, destroyed, removed, or rendered ineffective, or the required
precautions against trespassers have not been provided;
      (7)   Any premises that is unsanitary, or that is littered with rubbish
or garbage, or that has an uncontrolled growth of weeds; or
      (8)   Any structure that is in a state of dilapidation, deterioration or
decay; faulty construction; overcrowded; open, vacant, or abandoned; damaged by
fire to the extent so as not to provide shelter; in danger of collapse or
failure; and dangerous to anyone on or near the premises.
   REGISTERED DESIGN PROFESSIONAL. An architect or engineer registered or
licensed to practice professional architecture or engineering, as defined by
the statutory requirements of the professional registration laws of the State
of Ohio.
   ROOMING HOUSE. A building arranged or occupied for lodging, with or without
meals, for compensation and not occupied as a one-family dwelling or a two-
family dwelling.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
occupied or intended to be occupied for sleeping or living, but not for cooking
purposes.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage; the
term shall include ashes, plastics, paper, paper circulars, handbills, boots,
shoes, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, metals, tin,
wire, chips, shavings, tree branches, stumps, trunks, yard trimmings, brush,
dead weeds, dead vegetation, tin cans, mineral matter, bottles, glass, broken
glass, hoses, tires, piles of dirt, sand or rocks, crockery and dust and other
similar materials, home appliances stored outdoors, furniture not intended for
outdoor use, discarded parts and equipment or any item not used for its
intended purpose, items that in quantities could create a blighting influence
of decreased property values, or any waste material other than garbage or
offal.
   STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed or a portion thereof.
   TENANT. A person, corporation, partnership, or group, whether or not the
legal owner of record, occupying a building or portion thereof as a unit.
   TWO-FAMILY DWELLING. A building containing two dwelling units with not more
than five lodgers or boarders per family.
   WORKMANLIKE. Executed in a skilled manner (such as generally plumb, level,
square, in line, undamaged, and without marring adjacent work).
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a structure.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.145 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum conditions and the
responsibilities of persons for maintenance of structures, equipment, and
exterior property.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.146 RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The owner, occupant, agent, lessee, or person having the care or
management of the premises shall maintain the structures and exterior property
in compliance with these requirements.
   (B)   A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another person
to occupy premises, which do not comply with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.147 VACANT STRUCTURES AND LAND.
   All vacant structures and premises thereof or vacant land shall be
maintained in a clean, safe, secure, and sanitary condition as provided herein
so as not to cause a blighting problem or adversely affect the public health or
safety.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS
§ 154.160 SANITATION.
   (A)   General. All exterior property and premises shall be maintained in a
clean, safe, and sanitary condition and free of rubbish. The exterior property
and premises shall be maintained so as not to interfere with the comfortable
enjoyment of adjoining properties or have a negative effect upon the value of
the subject property or upon the value of other property in the neighborhood or
the village.
   (B)   Vegetation. All land shall be properly maintained, with lawns, hedges,
bushes, tree lawns, trees, and other vegetation to be trimmed and kept from
becoming overgrown and unsightly. Leaves shall be raked and disposed of to
avoid unreasonable accumulation where such leaves are exposed to public view or
where they may constitute a blighting influence on adjoining property.
   (C)   Driveways, parking areas, walks, and tree lawns. All driveways,
parking areas, walkways, and tree lawns shall be kept in a proper state of
repair and maintained free of weeds, and hazardous conditions. For the purposes
of this chapter, the words EXTERIOR PROPERTY and PREMISES shall include the
strip of land sometimes referred to as the park lawn or tree lawn (such as the
portion of right-of-way between the curb, or the paved street if there is no
curb, and the sidewalk) and any other unpaved portion of right-of-way which
abuts property of an owner.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.161 PARKING.
   (A)   All vehicles shall park in a designated parking area. All parking
areas shall be graded and provided with a suitable parking surface of asphalt,
gravel, or concrete. No parking shall be allowed in a grass or landscaped area
front, side, or rear yards.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to permitted agricultural uses.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.162 OUTDOOR STORAGE.
   Outdoor storage shall not be permitted in a residential district. Such
storage items may include, but are not limited to, bicycles, lawnmowers,
construction materials, or any material that in quantities could cause a
blighting problem, harborage for rodents, or adversely affect the public health
or safety.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.163 DEFACEMENT OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall willfully or wantonly damage, mutilate, or deface any
exterior surface of any structure or building on any private or public property
by placing thereon any marking, carving, or graffiti.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner to restore said surface to
an approved state of maintenance and repair.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.164 GRADING AND DRAINAGE.
   (A)   General. All premises shall be graded and maintained to prevent the
erosion of soil and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water thereon, or
within any structure located thereon.
   (B)   Exception. Water retention areas and reservoirs approved by the Code
Official.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.165 SIDEWALKS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   All sidewalks, walkways, stairs, driveways, parking spaces, and similar
areas shall be kept in a proper state of repair, and maintained free from
hazardous conditions.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.166 VERMIN HARBORAGE.
   All structures and exterior property shall be kept free from vermin
infestation. Where vermin are found, they shall be promptly exterminated by
approved processes, which will not be injurious to human health. After
extermination, proper precautions shall be taken to prevent reinfestation.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.167 EXHAUST VENTS.
   Pipes, ducts, conductors, fans, or blowers shall not discharge gases, steam,
vapor, hot air, grease, smoke, odors, or other gaseous or particulate wastes
directly upon abutting or adjacent public or private property or that of
another tenant.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.168 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   All accessory structures, including detached garages, fences, and walls,
shall be maintained structurally sound and in good repair.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.169 WEEDS.
   (A)   General. All premises and exterior property areas (excluding those
used for agricultural uses) shall be maintained free from weeds, plants, vines,
grass, or other vegetation in excess of eight inches of height. All noxious
weeds shall be prohibited. WEEDS shall be defined as all grasses, annual plants
and vegetation, other than trees or shrubs provided; however, this term shall
not include cultivated flowers and gardens.
   (B)   Large lots. All lots within the village having an area of one acre or
greater shall be kept mowed a distance of at least 50 feet from all property
lines and street rights-of-way or easements given for roadway purposes. The
entire lot shall be kept mowed for lots with area less than one acre. In either
case, the area between the right-of-way and the edge of pavement shall also be
maintained in accordance with this section.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.170 TRIMMING OR REMOVAL OF TREES, PLANTS AND SHRUBBERY.
   (A)   General. The owner of every lot or parcel of land within the village
upon which a tree, plant, or shrubbery stands with any part thereof upon or
overhanging a public street, sidewalk, or land belonging to another, shall
conform to the regulations herein provided, or the village may cause such tree,
plant, or shrubbery to be pruned or cut down and removed and assess the cost
thereof against the owner of such lot or parcel of land.
   (B)   Clear height. Such owner shall trim or cause to be pruned any tree,
plant, or shrubbery so that a clear height between the lowest branch of the
same and the sidewalk, or land belonging to another, shall be eight feet, and
14 feet overhanging a street.
   (C)   Dead trees. Such owner shall prune or remove, as the case may require,
every dead, decayed or broken tree, plant or shrubbery, or part thereof, so
that the same shall not fall to the street, sidewalk, or land belonging to
another.
   (D)   Bushes, hedges. Bushes, hedges, and shrubs located in the front yard
shall not exceed four feet in height and shall maintain three feet clearance
from the front lot line.
   (E)   Vegetation. All plant materials (especially trees and shrubs) which
are dead, afflicted with decay, disease, insect infestation, or otherwise
considered dangerous to other plant material or property shall be removed or
appropriately treated.
   (F)   Visibility. Such owner shall cut down and remove any tree, plant, or
shrubbery, or any part thereof, as may be necessary to provide a clear and
unobstructed view of traffic from all directions at any street intersection, or
to abate any nuisance necessary to protect life, limb, or property of persons,
drivers of any vehicles, or pedestrians using the street or sidewalk.
   (G)   Notice to comply. Upon determination this section has been violated,
the Code Official shall cause notice to be served as prescribed in §
154.060 advising such owner that they have not more than five days in which to
cause such vegetation to be cut, pruned, or removed.
   (H)   Failure to comply. Upon expiration of five days, if the owner does not
prune or remove any tree, plant, or shrubbery, or any part thereof, in
accordance with this section, the Code Official may cause such tree, plant, or
shrubbery, or any part thereof, to be pruned or removed. After such work is
done, the village shall give five days’ notice, by regular mail, to the owner
of such lot or parcel of land, at his or her or her last known address, to pay
the cost of such pruning or removal. Such notice shall be accompanied by a
statement of the amount of cost incurred, and if the same is not paid within 30
days after the mailing of such notice the amount shall be certified by the
Finance Director to the County Auditor for collection the same as other taxes
and assessments are collected. The remedy provided for in this division (H) is
in addition to the penalty provided in §
154.051 hereof.
   (I)   Penalty. Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the
provisions of this section is guilty of a fourth degree misdemeanor for the
first offense and for each subsequent offense the person shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor in the third degree. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
each day during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.171 STORAGE OF JUNK, DISABLED VEHICLES AND RUBBISH ON PREMISES.
   (A)   General. No person shall deposit, store, maintain or collect junk, a
disabled motor vehicle, and/or rubbish outside of a building within the limits
of the village. Such acts are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and
offensive to the public health, welfare, and safety of the people of the
village.
   (B)   Notice to remove. Upon determination this section has been violated,
the Code Official or Police Department shall cause notice to be served as
prescribed in §§
154.060 through
154.065, advising such owner that they have not more than five days in which to
remove or cause to be removed any junk, disabled motor vehicle, and/or rubbish
found upon any such lot or parcel of land.
   (C)   Failure to comply. If the owner, occupant, or person having charge or
management of any lot or parcel of land does not remove or cause to be removed
such junk, disabled motor vehicle, and/or rubbish in accordance with the
provisions of this section, then the Code Official or his or her designee is
hereby authorized to enforce the provisions of this section and to cause such
junk, disabled motor vehicle, and/or rubbish to be removed.
   (D)   Remedy of village. If removal of junk, disabled motor vehicles, and/or
rubbish is effected by and at the expense of the village, the amount of money
so expended shall be recovered from such owner, occupant or person in charge or
in control of such premises in any court of proper jurisdiction. The expense,
from the time of service of notice upon the owner, occupant, or person having
charge or management of such premises, shall be a lien upon such premises,
which may be enforced by legal proceedings in any court having jurisdiction.
The collection of expenses of removal by the village shall not be a bar to a
prosecution for a violation of this section or to imposition of the penalty
provided in §
154.051 hereof.
   (E)   Penalty. Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the
provisions of this section is guilty of a fourth degree misdemeanor for the
first offense and for each subsequent offense the person shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor in the third degree. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
each day during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
EXTERIOR STRUCTURE
§ 154.185 GENERAL.
   All buildings and the exterior of all premises shall be properly maintained
to achieve a presentable appearance and to avoid blighting effects and
hazardous conditions.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.186 EXTERIOR OF PREMISES.
   The exterior of every structure shall be maintained in good repair,
structurally sound, and sanitary so as not to pose a threat to the public
health, safety, or welfare. The owner shall keep the exterior of all premises
and every structure thereon, including, but not limited to, walls, roofs,
cornices, chimneys, drains, towers, porches, landings, fire escapes, stairs,
windows, doors, awnings and marquees, in good repair. All surfaces thereof
shall be kept painted or protected by other approved coatings or materials
where necessary for the preservation of the property and the avoidance of
blight or an adverse influence on adjoining properties. All exterior surfaces
shall be maintained free of broken glass, loose shingles, crumbling stone or
brick, peeling paint, or other conditions reflective of deterioration or
inadequate maintenance, to the end that the property itself may be preserved
safely, fire hazards eliminated, and adjoining properties and neighborhoods
protected from the blighting influence of decreased property values.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.187 STRUCTURAL MEMBERS.
   All structural members shall be maintained free from deterioration, and
shall be capable of safely supporting the imposed dead and live loads.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.188 FOUNDATION WALLS.
   All foundation walls shall be maintained plumb and free from open cracks and
breaks and shall be kept in such condition so as to prevent deterioration.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.189 EXTERIOR WALLS.
   All exterior walls shall be free from holes, breaks, and loose or rotting
materials; and maintained weatherproof and properly surface coated where
required to prevent deterioration.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.190 ROOFS AND DRAINAGE.
   The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight, and not have defects that admit
rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent dampness or deterioration in
the walls or interior portion of the structure. Roof drains, gutters, and
downspouts shall be maintained in good repair and free from obstructions. Roof
water shall not be discharged in a manner that creates a public nuisance.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.191 DECORATIVE FEATURES.
   All cornices, belt courses, corbels, terra cotta trim, wall facings, and
similar decorative features shall be maintained in good repair with proper
anchorage and in a safe condition.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.192 OVERHANG EXTENSIONS.
   All canopies, marquees, signs, metal awnings, fire escapes, standpipes,
exhaust ducts, and similar overhang extensions shall be maintained in good
repair and be properly anchored so as to be kept in a sound condition. When
required, all exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from the
elements and against decay or rust by periodic application of weather-coating
materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.193 STAIRWAYS, DECKS, PORCHES, AND BALCONIES.
   Every exterior stairway, deck, porch, and balcony, and all appurtenances
attached thereto, shall be maintained structurally sound, in good repair, with
proper anchorage and capable of supporting the imposed loads.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.194 CHIMNEYS AND TOWERS.
   All chimneys, cooling towers, smoke stacks, and similar appurtenances shall
be maintained structurally safe and sound, and in good repair. All exposed
surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from the elements and against
decay or rust by periodic application of weather-coating materials, such as
paint or similar surface treatment.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.195 HANDRAILS AND GUARDS.
   Every handrail and guard shall be firmly fastened and capable of supporting
normally imposed loads and shall be maintained in good condition.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.196 WINDOW AND DOOR FRAMES.
   (A)   General. Every window, door, and frame shall be kept in sound
condition, good repair, and weather-tight.
   (B)   Glazing. All glazing materials shall be maintained free from cracks
and holes.
   (C)   Openable windows. Every window, other than a fixed window, shall be
easily openable and capable of being held in position by window hardware.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.197 INSECT SCREENS.
   (A)   Generally. Every door, window, and other outside opening utilized or
required for ventilation purposes serving any structure containing habitable
rooms, food preparation areas, food service areas, or any areas where products
to be included or utilized in food for human consumption are processed,
manufactured, packaged, or stored, shall be supplied with approved tightly
fitting screens of not less than 16 mesh per inch and every swinging door shall
have a self-closing device in good working condition.
   (B)   Exception. Screen doors shall not be required where other approved
means, such as air curtains or insect repellent fans are employed.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.198 DOORS.
   All exterior doors and hardware shall be maintained in good condition. Locks
at all entrances to dwelling units, rooming units, and guestrooms shall tightly
secure the door.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.199 BASEMENT ENTRANCES.
   Every basement entrance shall be maintained to prevent the entrance of
vermin, rain, and surface drainage water.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.200 GUARDS FOR BASEMENT WINDOWS.
   Every basement window that is openable shall be supplied with vermin-proof
shields, storm windows, or other approved protection against the entry of
vermin.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
RUBBISH AND GARBAGE
§ 154.210 ACCUMULATION OF RUBBISH OR GARBAGE.
   All exterior property and premises, and the interior of every structure
shall be free from any accumulation of rubbish or garbage. The interior and
exterior of every structure shall be free from any undue accumulation of
rubbish or garbage to avoid detrimental effects on the physical or mental
health of occupants or users of the premises and to avoid significant adverse
impacts upon the value of the property, since that would, in turn, negatively
impact upon the value of neighboring properties and the quality of life
throughout not only the neighborhood.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.211 DISPOSAL OF RUBBISH OR GARBAGE.
   Every owner or occupant of occupied premises shall dispose of all rubbish or
garbage in a clean and sanitary manner by placing such rubbish or garbage in
approved leak-proof, covered containers. All containers, dumpsters, or trash
receptacles shall be kept closed or covered at all times. The premises around
all rubbish or garbage containers shall be kept free from glass, garbage,
rubbish, or debris.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
EXTERMINATION
§ 154.220 INFESTATION.
   All structures shall be kept free from insect and vermin infestation.
Approved processes that will not be injurious to human health shall promptly
exterminate all structures in which insects or vermin are found. After
extermination, proper precautions shall be taken to prevent reinfestation.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.221 OWNER.
   The owner of any structure shall be responsible for extermination within the
structure.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.222 SINGLE OCCUPANT.
   The occupant of a one-family dwelling or of a single-tenant nonresidential
structure shall be responsible for extermination on the premises.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.223 MULTIPLE OCCUPANCY.
   The owner of a structure containing two or more dwelling units, a multiple
occupancy, a rooming house, or a nonresidential structure shall be responsible
for extermination in the public or shared areas of the structure and exterior
property. If infestation is caused by failure of an occupant to prevent such
infestation in the area occupied, the occupants shall be responsible for
extermination.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.224 OCCUPANT.
   (A)   General. The occupant of any structure shall be responsible for the
continued vermin-free condition of the structure, and if the occupant fails to
maintain the vermin-free condition, the cost of extermination shall be the
responsibility of the occupant.
   (B)   Exception. Where vermin infestations are caused by defects in the
structure, the owner shall be responsible for extermination.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
INTERIOR STRUCTURE
§ 154.235 GENERAL.
   The interior of a structure and equipment therein shall be maintained in
good repair, structurally sound, and in a sanitary condition. Every occupant
shall keep that part of the structure, which such occupant occupies, or
controls in a clean and sanitary condition. Every owner of a structure
containing a rooming house, a hotel, a dormitory, two or more dwelling units or
two or more nonresidential occupancies, shall maintain, in a clean and sanitary
condition, the shared or public areas of the structure and exterior property.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.236 STRUCTURAL MEMBERS.
   All structural members shall be maintained structurally sound, and be
capable of supporting the imposed loads.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.237 INTERIOR SURFACES.
   All interior surfaces, including windows and doors, shall be maintained in
good, clean, and sanitary condition. Peeling paint, cracked or loose plaster,
decayed wood, and other defective surface conditions shall be corrected.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
SANITARY AND STORM DRAINAGE REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.250 SANITARY DRAINAGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   General. All plumbing fixtures shall be properly connected to either a
public sewer system or to an approved private sewage disposal system.
   (B)   Maintenance. Every plumbing stack, vent, waste, and sewer line shall
function properly and be kept free from obstructions, leaks, and defects.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.251 STORM DRAINAGE.
   (A)   General. Drainage of roofs and paved areas, yards and courts, and
other open areas on the premises shall not be discharged in a manner that
creates a public nuisance.
   (B)   Detention facilities. Maintenance of detention facilities shall be the
responsibility of the owner of the property on which said facility is situated.
Maintenance shall be carried out to a standard acceptable to the Village
Engineer. If said maintenance is not completed in a timely manner, the village
may cause necessary maintenance activities and assess the owner for all
expenses.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
FIRE SAFETY REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.260 GENERAL.
   The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum conditions and
standards for fire safety relating to structures and exterior premises,
including fire safety facilities and equipment to be provided.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.261 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner of the premises shall provide and maintain such fire safety
facilities and equipment in compliance with these requirements. A person shall
not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another person to occupy any premises
that do not comply with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.262 ACCUMULATIONS.
   Rubbish, garbage, or other materials shall not be stored or allowed to
accumulate in stairways, passageways, doors, windows, fire escapes, or other
means of egress.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 154.263 HAZARDOUS MATERIAL.
   Combustible, flammable, explosive, or other hazardous materials, such as
paints, volatile oils, and cleaning fluids, or combustible rubbish, such as
wastepaper, boxes, and rags, shall not be accumulated or stored unless such
storage complies with the applicable requirements of the Building Code and the
Fire Prevention Code listed in §
154.275.
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
REFERENCED STANDARDS
§ 154.275 BUILDING AND FIRE CODES.
   This chapter lists the standards that are referenced in various sections of
this chapter. The standards are listed herein by the promulgating agency of the
standard. The application of the referenced standard shall be as specified in §
154.004.
      BUILDING CODES
      Ohio Residential Code for One, Two, and Three Family Dwellings, 1999
Edition including the Miami Valley Amendments.
      Miami Valley Building Officials Council
      4200 Dryden Rd.
      Moraine, OH 45439
      Ohio Building Code
      Westgroup Publishers
      610 Opperman Dr.
      Eagan, MN 55123
      FIRE CODE
      Unified Fire Code, 1999 Edition
      Southwest Ohio Fire Safety Council
      PO Box 171
      Centerville, OH 45459
(Ord. 2004-038, passed 12-20-2004)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ZONING
      
II.   AGREEMENTS
      
III.   PLANS AND PROGRAMS
      
IV.   FRANCHISES
      
V.   MISCELLANEOUS
TABLE I: ZONING
Ord./Res. Date Description
Ord./Res.     Date       Description
Ord. 96-187   1-6-1997   Adopting the Zoning Map for the village and repealing
                         the previous Zoning Map for the village
                         Rezoning 22.212 acres recently annexed to the village,
Ord. 98-103   1-20-1998  being north of Adamsmoor Drive, from R-1, Limited
                         Density Single-Family Residential
Ord. 99-161   12-20-1999 Rezoning real estate described in Request RZ-99-03 as
                         SO, Suburban Office
                         Rezoning a 127.5349 acre parcel, part of a 496.638
Ord. 2000-044 8-7-2000   acre tract known as the Brown Annexation, from Limited
                         Density Residential (R-1) to Planned Industrial
                         District (PID)
                         Rezoning property located at 273 West Miami Street
Ord. 2001-031 8-20-2001  from Medium Density Residential (R-5) to Neighborhood
                         Commercial (NC)
                         Rezoning a 4.011 acre parcel including lots 54-55, 57-
                         60, and portions of lots 47-49 and 56 of the
Ord. 2002-047 12-16-2002 preliminary plat of Waterford Place subdivision from
                         (AR-1) Multi-Family to (SO) Suburban Office and
                         Institution District
Ord. 2005-040 9-6-2005   Rezoning Victoria Glensubdivision from an AR-1 multi-
                         family designation to a PRD designation
Ord. 2016-031 10-3-2016  Rezoning approximately 2.68 acres from SO to EU
Ord. 2017-017 4-3-2017   Rezoning property from AR-1 multi-family to EU
                         Rezoning property identified as 407 High Street from
Ord. 2023-029 8-7-2023   Medium Density Residential (R-4) to Suburban Office
                         (SO)
                        
 
TABLE II: AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. Date Description
Ord./ Date Description
Res.
Res.  7-
2003- 21-  Agreement for paving services
036   2003
Ord.  8-4-
2003- 2003 Lease agreement
034
Ord.  8-4-
2003- 2003 Contract for police services
035
Ord.  8-4-
2003- 2003 Contract for police services
037
Res.  6-7-
2004- 2004 Lease of park property
012
Res.  9-7-
2004- 2004 Contract for wastewater consultant
024
Res.  9-7-
2004- 2004 Wastewater service agreement with the county
027
Res.  9-
2004- 20-  Professional service agreement
025   2004
Ord.  10-
2004- 18-  Agreement for notification system
035   2004
Res.  11-
2004- 1-   Contract for intersection improvement project
033   2004
Ord.  12-
2004- 20-  Agreement for engineering services
046   2004
Ord.  1-3-
2004- 2005 Professional services agreement
047
Ord.  1-3-
2004- 2005 Agreement for photocopying services
048
Ord.  1-
2005- 18-  Water service agreement with the county
004   2005
Ord.  2-7-
2005- 2005 Database system agreement
005
Res.  4-4-
2005- 2005 Lease agreement with chamber of commerce
012
Res.  - -
2005- 2005 Joining the regional planning commission
022
Res.  6-6-
2005- 2005 Contract to design water system improvement project
023
Res.  6-
2005- 20-  Joining the state’s Benefits Cooperative Inc.
025   2005
Ord.  8-
2005- 15-  Agreement for police vehicle
036   2005
Res.  9-3-
2005- 2005 Contract for a wastewater consultant
045
Ord.  10-
2005- 17-  Contact for water line improvements
051   2005
Res.  12-
2005- 19-  Contract for water system improvement
062   2005
Res.  - -
2006- 2006 Contract for waste and refuse removal
005
Res.  - -
2006- 2006 Agreement for feasibility study
009
Res.  7-5-
2006- 2006 Contract for road work
015
Res.  9-
2006- 18-  Street lighting agreement
019   2006
Res.  10-
2006- 17-  Professional services agreement
020   2006
Res.  11-
2006- 20-  Sanitary sewer agreement
021A  2006
Res.  12-
2006- 18-  Professional services agreement
028   2006
Res.  - -
2007- 2007 Professional services agreement
006
Res.  5-7-
2007- 2007 Contract for street lighting services
010
Res.  7-2-
2007- 2007 Contract for building inspections
012
Res.  9-
2007- 14-  Agreement with the state Sauerkraut Festival Committee
022   2007
Res.  1-
2008- 22-  Roadway maintenance agreement
002   2008
Ord.  4-7-
2008- 2008 Farm lease agreement
012
Ord.  5-5-
2008- 2008 Farm lease agreement
017
Res.  6-
2008- 16-  Contract for wastewater consultant
022   2008
Ord.  8-4-
2008- 2008 Settlement agreement
025
Res.  10-
2008- 6-   Agreement with the state’s Sauerkraut Festival Committee
038   2008
Res.  10-
2008- 20-  Agreement with the county’s Board of Commissioners
044   2008
Ord.  11-
2008- 3-   Professional services agreement
045   2008
Ord.  11-
2008- 17-  Mutual release agreement
050   2008
Ord.  4-6-
2009- 2009 Water service agreement with the county
001
Ord.  5-4-
2009- 2009 Farm lease agreement
008
Ord.  6-1-
2009- 2009 Professional services agreement
021
Ord.  4-5-
2010- 2010 Lease agreement with chamber of commerce
007
Ord.  4-
2010- 19-  Contract for rehabilitation project
010   2010
Ord.  5-
2010- 17-  Agreement with regional council of governments
011   2010
Ord.  7-
2010- 19-  Contract for paving services
021   2010
Res.  10-
2010- 4-   Agreement with the state’s Sauerkraut Festival Committee
033   2010
Ord.  10-
2010- 18-  Mutual settlement and mutual release agreement
035   2010
Ord.  11-
2010- 15-  Agreement for water distribution improvements project
037   2010
Ord.  1-3-
2011- 2011 Agreement with DPL Energy for street lighting and electricity
001
Res.  3-
2011- 21-  Contract extension for waste and refuse collection
008   2011
Ord.  5-
2011- 16-  Extension of wastewater service agreement
011   2011
Ord.  12-
2011- 5-   Contract with county drug task force
030   2011
Ord.  3-
2012- 19-  Farm lease agreement
004   2012
Res.  5-
2012- 21-  Agreement with the state’s Sauerkraut Festival Committee
016   2012
Ord.  6-4-
2012- 2012 Agreement for retaining wall
022
Ord.  8-
2012- 20-  Contract for police vehicle
034   2012
Ord.  10-
2012- 8-   Water service agreement
050   2012
Ord.  11-
2012- 5-   Agreement with DPL Energy Resource Inc.
53    2012
Ord.  1-7-
2012- 2013 Agreement with county Small Business Development Alliance
063
Ord.  - -
2013- 2013 Lease agreement
012
Ord.  3-
2013- 18-  Contract concerning credit card payment program
013   2013
Ord.  3-
2013- 18-  Release and settlement agreement
016   2013
Ord.  4-
2013- 15-  Agreement for electricity
018   2013
Ord.  7-1-
2013- 2013 Agreement with uniform accounting network
027
Ord.  7-
2013- 15-  Professional services agreement
028   2013
Ord.  11-
2013- 4-   Agreement with Miami Valley Lighting, LLC
51    2013
Ord.  11-
2013- 4-   Agreement with DPL Energy Resources, Inc.
52    2013
Ord.  12-
2013- 2-   Agreement with WSOS Community Action Commission, Inc.
57    2013
Ord.  1-
2014- 21-  Contract for police vehicle
02    2014
Ord.  3-3-
2014- 2014 Contract for vehicle
008
Ord.  4-
2014- 21-  Contract extension for waste and refuse removal
015   2014
Ord.  2-2-
2015- 2015 Agreement for mutual aid assistance with the county
002
Ord.  4-6-
2015- 2015 Professional services agreement
012
Ord.  4-6-
2015- 2015 Farm lease agreement
013
Ord.  6-1-
2015- 2015 Settlement agreement
020
Ord.  10-
2015- 19-  Settlement agreement
038   2015
Ord.  12-
2015- 21-  Professional services agreement
044   2015
Ord.  4-
2016- 18-  Delinquent debt collection agreement
002   2016
Ord.  5-2-
2016- 2016 Agreement for electric generation supply
010
Ord.  5-2-
2016- 2016 Contract for road salt
011
Ord.  6-
2016- 20-  Police Department special duty detail agreement
013   2016
Ord.  8-
2016- 15-  Agreement with Great American Financial Services
022   2016
Res.  10-
2016- 17-  Professional services agreement
036   2016
Res.  10-
2016- 31-  Professional services agreement
042   2016
Res.  11-  Subdivision public improvement performance and maintenance security
2016- 21-  agreement
043   2016
Ord.  2-
2017- 21-  Contract for police vehicle
003   2017
Ord.  2-
2017- 21-  Agreement for water main project
012   2017
Ord.  3-
2017- 20-  Contract for road salt
018   2017
Ord.  5-
2015- 15-  Contract for road salt
017   2017
Ord.  8-7-
2017- 2017 Agreement with Miami Valley Lighting, LLC for street lighting
037
Ord.  9-5-
2017- 2017 Contract with Smithcorp for paving work
045
Ord.  9-   Contract with A&A Safety, Inc. for thermoplastic striping of village
2017- 21-  streets
051   2017
Ord.  10-  Contract with Gold Star Construction, LLC for the construction of a
2017- 16-  pole barn
056   2017
Ord.  11-  Contract with Lebanon Ford for the purchase of a truck for the
2017- 6-   Maintenance Department
059   2017
Ord.  12-
2017- 4-   Agreement for lease for Lock Up
062   2017
Ord.  2-   Contract with Murphy Tractor & Equipment for the purchase of backhow
2018- 20-  loader
008   2018
Ord.  2-   Agreement with Utilities Sales Agency, LLC to change out of water
2018- 20-  meters
009   2018
Ord.  2-   Contract with TSYS Business Solutions, LLC for credit card
2018- 20-  processing services
010   2018
Ord.  2-   Agreement with Invoice Cloud, Inc. to establish online billing
2018- 20-  portal for water bills
011   2018
Ord.  2-   Contract with Buckeye State Pipe & Supply Co., Inc. for purchase of
2018- 20-  water meters
013   2018
Ord.  3-5-
2018- 2018 Contract with Ferguson Waterworks for the purchase of meter lids
014
Ord.  3-5- Contract with Homeland Technology Group for the fire alarm
2018- 2018 replacement project
016
Ord.  3-   Agreement with the Wayne Local School District Board of Education
2018- 19-  for school resource officer services
018   2018
Ord.  4-2- Contract with Warren County Engineer’s Office for purchase of road
2018- 2018 salt
019
Res.  6-   Agreement with Wayne Township for the Third Street water main
2018- 18-  replacement and resurfacing project
025   2018
Res.  6-   Agreement with Warren County for the Edwards Drive utility
2018- 18-  replacement project
027   2018
Res.  6-   Agreement with Wayne Township for the Edwards Drive utility
2018- 18-  replacement project
029   2018
Ord.  6-   Contract with FED Excavating, Inc. for the repair and installation
2018- 18-  of village storm sewers
030   2018
Ord.  7-2- Contract with Ground Water Science for new wellfield hydrogeologic
2018- 2018 professional services
031
Ord.  8-
2018- 20-  Contract with Collett Sealcoating for crack sealing services
038   2018
Ord.  9-   Terminate a contract for certain waste and refuse collection and
2018- 17-  entering into a new contract with Waste Management for said services
041   2018
Ord.  10-  Contract with InControl Technical Solutions, LLC for SCADA system
2018- 15-  upgrade services
051   2018
Ord.  10-
2018- 1-   Lease agreement for the Lock Up
052   2018
(B)
Ord.  11-  Contract with InControl Technical Solutions, LLC for SCADA system
2018- 5-   upgrade services
054   2018
Ord.  1-7-
2018- 2019 Contract with Mark D. Webb for prosecuting services for the village
065
Ord.  1-7- Contract with Reineke Ford Lincoln Mercury for the purchase of one
2019- 2019 2018 Ford F-550 chassis cab with snow plow, dump body, and salt
001        spreader
Ord.  1-7- Contract with Kenworth of Cincinnati for the purchase of one 2019
2019- 2019 Kenworth T370
002
Ord.  1-
2019- 22-  Amendment to the employment agreement with Gary L. Copeland
004   2019
Ord.  1-
2019- 22-  Amendment to the employment agreement with Kitty Crockett
005   2019
Ord.  1-   Contract with FED Excavating, Inc. related to the parking lot at the
2019- 22-  new maintenance building
006   2019
Ord.  2-   Contract with Jeremy K. Smith for the sale of approximately 6.87
2019- 19-  acres of property located behind the Waynesville Government Center
009   2019
Ord.  2-   Contract with Warren County Engineer’s Office for purchase of road
2019- 19-  sale
010   2019
Ord.  2-   Contract with FED Excavating, Inc. related to the parking lot at the
2019- 19-  service garage driveway
012   2019
Ord.  5-6- Emergency water service agreement with the Warren County Board of
2019- 2019 Commissioners
013
Ord.  4-1- Contract with Lebanon Ford for the purchase of one 2019 Ford
2019- 2019 Explorer police vehicle
019
Ord.  5-6- Cooperative agreement with Wayne Township related to the Third
2019- 2019 Street waster main replacement
023
Ord.  5-6- Contract with FED Excavating, Inc. related to enlarging asphalt
2019- 2019 parking lot at 1400 Lytle Road
024
Ord.  5-
2019- 20-  Executing an addendum to the contract with Rumpke of Ohio, Inc.
025   2019
Ord.  6-3- Contract with Choice One Engineering for professional services
2019- 2019 related to the Third Street water main replacement and resurfacing
026        project
Ord.  7-
2019- 15-  Change order to the contract with FED Excavating, Inc.
038   2019
Ord.  8-   Contract with Barrett Paving Materials, Inc. for the repaving of
2019- 19-  Preston Drive
045   2019
Ord.  8-
2019- 19-  Contract with Highcap Technologies LLC for IT support
048   2019
Ord.  8-
2019- 19-  Contract with FED Excavating, Inc. related to the roadway to wells
049   2019
Ord.  9-
2019- 16-  Contract with Lebanon Ford
051   2019
Ord.  9-
2019- 16-  Contract with Barrett Paving Materials, Inc.
054   2019
Ord.  10-
2019- 7-   Contract with Boone Water Systems, Inc.
055   2019
Ord.  10-
2019- 21-  Contract with Dug Rite Excavating
057   2019
Ord.  1-
2020- 21-  Amendment to the employment agreement with Gary L. Copeland
001   2020
Ord.  1-
2020- 21-  Amendment to the employment agreement with Kitty Crockett
002   2020
Ord.  1-6-
2020- 2020 Contract with Walt Biggs Excavating
005
Res.  2-3- Authorizing the Village Manager to enter into an amended and
2020- 2020 restated Warren County Drug Task Force Council of Governments
007        contract
Ord.  2-3-
2020- 2020 Contract with Mobilcomm, Inc.
008
Ord.  2-3-
2020- 2020 Contract with Warren County Engineer’s Office
009
Ord.  3-2-
2020- 2020 Contract with Buckeye Power Sales
012
Ord.  3-
2020- 16-  Contract with Brydge Payment, LLC
013   2020
Ord.  4-6-
2020- 2020 Contract with PCI Services
018
Ord.  4-
2020- 16-  Contract with MTD Products Company
020   2020
Ord.  5-4-
2020- 2020 Contract with ePanel Plus, Ltd.
023
Res.  6-1- Authorizing the Village Manager to enter into an amended and
2020- 2020 restated Warren County Drug Task Force Council of Governments
025        contract
Ord.  7-
2020- 20-  Change order to the contract with Walt Bigg’s Excavating, Inc.
033   2020
Ord.  8-
2020- 17-  Contract with Smithcorp, Inc.
037   2020
Ord.  8-
2020- 17-  Contract with FED Excavating, Inc.
038   2020
Ord.  8-
2020- 17-  Contract with Barret Paving Materials, Inc.
039   2020
Ord.  8-
2020- 17-  Contract with Brown Paving and Construction Co., Inc.
040   2020
Ord.  9-
2020- 21-  Contract with Lebanon Ford
047   2020
Ord.  10-
2020- 5-   Customer agreement with FP Mailing Solutions
048   2020
Ord.  10-
2020- 19-  Contract with Homeland Technology Group, LLC
050   2020
Ord.  11-
2020- 2-   Contract with Buckeye Power Sales
052   2020
Ord.  11-
2020- 16-  Contract with FED Excavating, Inc.
059   2020
Ord.  11-
2020- 2-   Agreement with Constellation NewEnergy, Inc.
060   2020
Ord.  12-
2020- 7-   Contract with Choice One Engineering Corporation
061   2020
Ord.  12-
2020- 21-  Amendment to the employment agreement with Gary L. Copeland
062   2020
Ord.  12-
2020- 21-  Amendment to the employment agreement with Kitty Crockett
063   2020
Ord.  2-1-
2021- 2021 Contract with Legend Web Works LLC
001
Ord.  2-1-
2021- 2021 Contract with Lebanon Ford
002
Ord.  1-
2021- 19-  Contract with Warren County Engineer’s office
003   2021
Ord.  2-1- Water service agreement with the Warren County Board of
2021- 2021 Commissioners
005
Ord.  3-1-
2021- 2021 Agreement with Verizon Wireless
007
Ord.  3-
2021- 15-  Contract with L&T Painting, Inc.
010   2021
Ord.  3-
2021- 15-  Contract with Boone Water Systems, Inc.
011   2021
Ord.  3-
2021- 15-  Contract with Ashlee Fence Enterprises, Inc.
012   2021
Ord.  7-6-
2021- 2021 Contract with PCI Services
015
Ord.  4-
2021- 19-  Contract with Nelson Tank Engineering and Consulting, Inc.
016   2021
Ord.  5-3-
2021- 2021 Contract with Epanel Plus, Ltd.
018
Ord.  5-
2021- 17-  Contract with Wessler Engineering
019   2021
Ord.  6-7-
2021- 2021 Contract with Choice One Engineering
023
Ord.  7-6-
2021- 2021 Agreement with ODOT for removal of snow and ice
025
Ord.  7-
2021- 19-  Contract with Wessler Engineering
028   2021
Ord.  8-
2021- 16-  Contract with Western Ohio Sales, Best Equipment Co. Inc.
032   2021
Ord.  8-2- School resource officer agreement with the Wayne Local School
2021- 2021 District Board of Education
033
Ord.  8-
2021- 16-  Contract with FED Excavating, Inc.
037   2021
Ord.  9-7-
2021- 2021 Contract with AE Door and Window Co.
041
Ord.  9-7-
2021- 2021 Contract with Walt Biggs Excavating
042
Ord.  9-
2021- 20-  Contract with Brown Paving and Construction Co., Inc.
043   2021
Ord.  11-
2021- 15-  Amendment to the employment agreement with Kitty Crockett
048   2021
Ord.  11-
2021- 15-  Amendment to the employment agreement with Gary L. Copeland
049   2021
Ord.  12-
2021- 6-   Contract with One Stop Signs
051   2021
Ord.  12-
2021- 20-  Contract with Millennium Business Systems
053   2021
Ord.  1-
2022- 18-  Contract with the Warren County Engineer’s office
001   2022
Ord.  2-7-
2022- 2022 Contract with Mark D. Webb
003
Ord.  2-7-
2022- 2022 Contract with Choice One Engineering
004
Ord.  2-7-
2022- 2022 Contract with Choice One Engineering
005
Ord.  4-
2022- 18-  Contract with Ohio Valley Painting Company
010   2022
Ord.  4-   Cooperative agreement with Wayne Township related to the Third
2022- 18-  Street water main replacement and street resurfacing project
012   2022
Ord.  4-   Cooperative agreement with Wayne Township related to the Franklin
2022- 18-  Street water main and street improvements
013   2022
Ord.  4-
2022- 18-  Contract with PCI Services
015   2022
Ord.  4-
2022- 18-  Addendum to contract with Rumpke of Ohio, Inc.
016   2022
Ord.  5-2-
2022- 2022 Contract with E.H. Wachs
018
Ord.  5-2-
2022- 2022 Contract with Strawser Construction, Inc.
020
Ord.  6-6-
2022- 2022 Contract with Strawser Construction, Inc.
022
Ord.  8-1- Police Department special duty detail agreement for the 2022 Ohio
2022- 2022 Sauerkraut festival
027
Ord.  8-   Purchase agreement with the Waynesville Area Heritage and Cultural
2022- 15-  Center at the Friend’s Home, Inc.
032   2022
Ord.  8-1-
2022- 2022 Contract with Strawser Construction, Inc.
035
Ord.  9-6-
2022- 2022 Energy consulting and management agreement with Trebel, LLC
039
Ord.  10-
2022- 17-  Street lighting agreement with Miami Valley Lighting, LLC
044   2022
Ord.  10-
2022- 17-  Contract with Interstate Ford
045   2022
Ord.  11-
2022- 21-  Amendment to the employment agreement with Kitty Crockett
049   2022
Ord.  11-
2022- 21-  Amendment to the employment agreement with Gary L. Copeland
050   2022
Ord.  12-
2022- 5-   Contract with Moody’s of Dayton, Inc.
052   2022
Ord.  1-3-
2022- 2023 Contract with Choice One Engineering Corporation
061
Ord.  1-3-
2022- 2023 Contract with Choice One Engineering Corporation
062
Ord.  1-
2023- 17-  Contract with the Warren County Engineer’s office
004   2023
Ord.  3-6-
2023- 2023 Contract with Nymbus3 Cybersecurity, LLC
011
Ord.  4-
2023- 17-  Contract with Choice One Engineering
014   2023
Ord.  4-
2023- 17-  Contract with FED Excavating, Inc.
016   2023
Ord.  5-1-
2023- 2023 Contract with Moody’s of Dayton, Inc.
017
Ord.  5-1-
2023- 2023 Contract with the Director of Transportation
018
Ord.  5-1-
2023- 2023 Contract with FED Excavating, Inc.
020
Ord.  6-5-
2023- 2023 Contract with Buckeye Power Sales
022
Ord.  6-5-
2023- 2023 Contract with Strawser Construction, Inc.
023
Res.  6-5- Multi-jurisdictional agreement with Wayne Township related to the
2023- 2023 Franklin Road water main and street improvements
026
Ord.  6-5-
2023- 2023 Contract with Erich Schubert
027
Res.  6-   Multi-jurisdictional agreement with Wayne Township related to the
2023- 20-  Corwin Avenue repaving project
028   2023
Ord.  8-7-
2023- 2023 Contract with SmithCorp, Inc.
032
Ord.  8-
2023- 21-  Contract with KT Holden Construction LLC
035   2023
Ord.  9-
2023- 18-  Contract with FED Excavating, Inc.
040   2023
Ord.  11-
2023- 20-  Contract with Buckeye Power Sales
048   2023
Ord.  12-
2023- 18-  Amendment to the employment agreement with Gary L. Copeland
057   2023
Ord.  12-
2023- 18-  Contract with Chase Kirby
059   2023
          
 
 
TABLE III: PLANS AND PROGRAMS
Ord./Res. Date Description
Ord./Res.     Date       Description
Ord. 2003-001 1-21-2003  Tree management plan
Res. 2003-014 5-5-2003   Memorial tree policy
Ord. 2004-002 1-20-2004  Tree management plan
Ord. 2004-030 10-18-2004 Solid waste management plan
Res. 2005-007 2-7-2005   State cooperative purchasing program
Ord. 2005-008 3-7-2005   Tree management plan
Res. 2005-020 6-6-2005   Participation in the GAVPD program
Ord. 2005-063 1-3-2006   Tree management plan
Ord. 2012-027 8-6-2012   Regional income tax agency delinquent program
Ord. 2013-030 7-15-2013  Regional income tax agency subpoena program
Ord. 2013-44  9-16-2013  Employee medical insurance plan
Res. 2016-044 12-5-2016  Five-year capital improvement plan
Ord. 2017-026 6-5-2017   Main Street bond claim project
Res. 2017-042 8-21-2017  Solid waste management plan
Ord. 2017-060 12-4-2017  Employee and dependents medical insurance plan
Ord. 2017-065 12-18-2017 Employee and dependents dental, vision, and life
                         insurance plans
Ord. 2017-060 12-4-2017  Employee and dependents medical insurance plan
Ord. 2017-065 12-18-2017 Employee and dependents dental, vision, and life
                         insurance plans
Ord. 2018-057 12-17-2018 Plan for medical insurance for village employees and
                         dependents
Ord. 2018-058 12-17-2018 Health reimbursement plan for village employees and
                         authorizing related payments
Ord. 2018-059 12-17-2018 Plan for dental, vision, and life insurance for
                         village employees and dependents
Ord. 2019-056 11-4-2019  Authorizing a health insurance plan for village
                         employees
Ord. 2019-058 11-18-2019 Ratifying and accepting plans for dental, vision, and
                         life insurance for village employees and dependents
Ord. 2019-060 11-18-2019 Establishing a health reimbursement plan for village
                         employees and authorizing related payments
Ord. 2020-014 3-16-2020  Authorizing a health insurance plan for village
                         employees
Res. 2020-053 11-2-2020  Adopting the Warren County Multi-Jurisdictional Hazard
                         Mitigation 5 year plan update
Ord. 2020-055 11-16-2020 Establishing a health reimbursement plan for village
                         employees and authorizing related payments
Ord. 2020-056 11-16-2020 Ratifying and accepting plans for dental, vision, and
                         life insurance for village employees and dependents
Ord. 2021-008 4-5-2021   Authorizing a health insurance plan for village
                         employees
Ord. 2021-044 11-15-2021 Ratifying and accepting plans for dental, vision, and
                         life insurance for village employees
Ord. 2021-045 11-15-2021 Establishing a health reimbursement plan for village
                         employees
Ord. 2022-014 4-18-2022  Authorizing a health insurance plan for village
                         employees
Res. 2022-025 7-5-2022   Authorizing a governmental electricity aggregation
                         program with opt-out provisions
Res. 2022-026 7-5-2022   Authorizing a governmental natural gas aggregation
                         program with opt-out provisions
                         Submitting an application to participate in the Ohio
Ord. 2022-030 7-28-2022  Public Works Commission State Capital Improvement and/
                         or Local Transportation Improvement Program(s)
                         Submitting an application to participate in the Ohio
Ord. 2022-031 7-28-2022  Public Works Commission State Capital Improvement and/
                         or Local Transportation Improvement Program(s)
Ord. 2022-047 11-7-2022  Ratifying and accepting a village life insurance
                         policy plan
Ord. 2022-053 12-5-2022  Establishing a health reimbursement plan for village
                         employees
Ord. 2022-059 12-19-2022 Ratifying and accepting plans for dental insurance for
                         village employees
Ord. 2023-015 4-17-2023  Authorizing a health insurance plan for village
                         employees
                         Submitting an application to participate in the Ohio
Res. 2023-025 6-5-2023   Public Works Commission State Capital Improvement and/
                         or Local Transportation Improvement Program(s)
Ord. 2023-034 8-21-2023  Solid waste management plan
Ord. 2023-051 11-20-2023 Ratifying and accepting plans for dental, vision, and
                         life insurance for village employees
Ord. 2023-052 11-20-2023 Establishing a health reimbursement plan for village
                         employees
                        
 
 
TABLE IV: FRANCHISES
 
Ord./Res.     Date       Description
Res. 2007-007 4-2-2007   Granting franchise to Vectren Energy Delivery of Ohio,
                         Inc. and Indiana Gas Company, Inc.
Ord. 2010-022 8-16-2010  Granting a franchise to Dayton Power and Light Company
Ord. 2012-062 12-17-2012 Granting franchise to Vectren Energy Delivery of Ohio,
                         Inc. and Indiana Gas Company, Inc.
Ord. 2012-065 1-7-2013   Contract for water main replacement design
Ord. 2015-026 8-3-2015   Granting a franchise to Dayton Power and Light Company
                        
 
 
TABLE V: MISCELLANEOUS
 
Ord./Res.     Date      Description
Res. 2006-016 9-11-2006 Renaming park to Veterans Memorial Park
Res. 2012-008 5-7-2012  Designating a highway as the Veterans Highway
                       
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Ohio Revised Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OHIO REVISED CODE
R.C. Section Code Section
R.C. Section                           Code Section
1.01                                   10.01
1.02                                   10.02
1.05                                   10.02
1.14                                   10.03
1.15                                   10.03
1.23                                   10.05
1.42                                   10.03
1.43                                   10.03
1.44                                   10.02
1.45                                   10.03
1.46                                   10.03
1.47                                   10.18
1.48                                   10.18
1.49                                   10.18
1.50                                   10.07
1.51                                   10.06
1.52                                   10.06
1.54                                   10.04
1.55                                   10.05
1.56                                   10.05
1.57                                   10.04
1.58                                   10.04
1.59                                   10.02
9.312                                  32.029
9.481                                  30.12
121.22                                 30.10
128.01(A)                              136.20
128.96(F) - (H)                        136.20
128.99(A), (B)                         136.20
149.39                                 30.09
149.43(B), (E)                         30.08
701.01                                 10.02
711.001(B)                             152.011
715.261                                93.05
715.30                                 93.05
715.47                                 93.28
715.67                                 130.99
719.012                                93.05
723.011                                94.031
723.012                                94.149
723.04                                 94.070
723.041                                94.075
723.05                                 94.071
723.06                                 94.072
723.07                                 94.073
723.08                                 94.074
729.01                                 94.045
729.02                                 94.046
729.03                                 94.047
729.04                                 94.048
729.05                                 94.049
729.12                                 94.032
731.09                                 32.001
731.091                                32.001
731.10                                 32.002
731.11                                 32.003
731.12                                 32.004
731.13                                 32.005
731.14                                 32.025
731.141                                32.025
731.15                                 32.026
731.16                                 32.027
731.17                                 32.041
731.18                                 32.042
731.19                                 32.043
731.20                                 32.044
731.21                                 32.045
731.211                                32.046
731.22                                 32.047
731.23                                 32.048
731.231                                32.049
731.24                                 32.050
731.26                                 32.051
731.28                                 32.070
731.29                                 32.071
731.30                                 32.052,
                                       32.072
731.31                                 32.073
733.31(A)                              30.07
731.32                                 32.074
731.33                                 32.075
731.34                                 32.076
731.35                                 32.077
731.36                                 32.078
731.38                                 32.079
731.40                                 32.080
731.41                                 32.081
731.42                                 32.040
731.43(A)                              32.006
731.44                                 32.007
731.45                                 32.008
731.46                                 32.009
731.47                                 32.010
731.48                                 32.028
731.49                                 32.011
731.50                                 32.012
731.51                                 93.41
731.52                                 93.42
731.53                                 93.43
731.54                                 93.44
731.99(A)                              32.078
731.99(B)                              32.080
731.99(C)                              32.079
733.68                                 30.02
733.69                                 30.04
733.70                                 30.05
733.71                                 30.06
733.79                                 30.11
735.27                                 32.013
737.04                                 34.15
737.041                                34.15
737.15                                 34.03
737.16                                 34.05
737.161                                34.30
737.162                                34.06
737.17                                 34.06
737.171                                34.07
737.18                                 34.08
737.19                                 34.09
737.20                                 34.10
737.29                                 34.11
737.31                                 34.12
737.32                                 34.13
737.33                                 34.14
901.51                                 131.21
901.99(A)                              131.21
925.62                                 90.34
925.99(B)                              90.34
951.02                                 90.01,
                                       90.28
951.10                                 90.01
951.11                                 90.02
951.12                                 90.03
951.13                                 90.04
951.99                                 90.01
955.011(B)                             90.32
955.10                                 90.27
955.11(A)                              90.28
955.21                                 90.29
955.22                                 90.01,
                                       90.28
955.222                                90.01,
                                       90.28
955.24                                 90.30
955.25                                 90.30
955.26                                 90.05
955.28(A)                              90.07
955.39                                 90.05
955.43(A), (B)                         90.32
955.43(C)                              90.32
955.50                                 90.33
955.54                                 90.36
955.99(B)                              90.27,
                                       90.30
955.99(C)                              90.05,
                                       90.33
955.99(D)                              90.32
                                       90.01,
955.99(E)                              90.29,
                                       90.99
955.99(F)                              90.01,
                                       90.99
955.99(G)                              90.01,
                                       90.99
955.99(H)                              90.01,
                                       90.99
955.99(J)                              90.01,
                                       90.99
955.99(L)                              90.01,
                                       90.99
955.99(M)                              90.01,
                                       90.99
955.99(N)                              90.01,
                                       90.99
955.99(O)                              90.36
955.99(P)                              90.01,
                                       90.99
955.99(Q)                              90.01
959.01                                 90.20
959.02                                 90.21
959.03                                 90.22
959.04                                 90.21,
                                       90.22
959.13                                 90.23
959.131                                90.23
959.15                                 90.24
959.17                                 90.25
959.21                                 90.37
959.99(B)                              90.21
959.99(C)                              90.22,
                                       90.25
959.99(C), (I)                         90.24
959.99(D)                              90.23,
                                       90.36
959.99(E)                              90.23
959.99(E)(3)                           90.20
959.99(E)(6)                           90.36
1349.17                                131.30
1349.99                                131.30
1533.161                               90.34
1533.171(A)                            131.23,
                                       135.05
1533.99(B)                             90.34
1533.99(C)                             131.23,
                                       135.05
2705.01                                33.20
2705.02                                33.21
2705.03                                33.22
2705.031                               33.23
2705.04                                33.24
2705.05                                33.25
2705.06                                33.26
2705.07                                33.27
2705.08                                33.28
2705.09                                33.29
2705.10                                33.30
2901.01                                130.02
2901.02                                130.03
2901.03                                130.04
2901.04                                130.05
2901.05                                130.13
2901.06                                130.14
2901.08                                130.15
2901.09                                130.21
2901.11                                130.16
2901.13                                130.06
2901.21                                130.07
2901.22                                130.08
2901.23                                130.09
2901.24                                130.10
2903.05                                135.02
2903.06                                135.03
2903.08(A)(3), (C)(3), (D)(3), (E)-(G) 135.03
2903.09                                135.01
2903.10                                135.19
2903.13                                135.04
2903.14                                135.04
2903.16                                135.19
2903.21                                135.05
2903.211                               135.05
2903.22                                135.06
2903.31                                135.17
2903.311(B), (C)                       135.17
2903.33                                135.20
2903.34                                135.20
2903.341                               135.20
2903.35                                135.20
2903.36                                135.20
2905.03                                135.07
2905.12                                135.07
2907.01                                133.01
2907.04                                133.02
2907.06                                133.03
2907.08                                133.05
2907.09                                133.04
2907.10                                133.06
2907.23                                133.07
2907.231                               133.07
2907.24                                133.08
2907.241                               133.08
2907.25                                133.09
2907.26                                133.13
2907.31                                133.10
2907.311                               133.11
2907.33                                133.12
2907.35                                133.10
2907.36                                133.14
2907.37                                133.15
2907.38                                133.16
2907.39                                133.17
2907.40                                133.18
2909.01                                131.01
2909.03                                131.02
2909.06                                131.03
2909.07                                131.04
2909.08(A) - (E)                       131.05
2909.09                                131.03
2909.10                                131.34
2909.101                               131.34
2909.11(B) - (D)                       131.02
2909.31                                136.21
2911.21                                131.06
2911.211                               131.06
2911.23                                131.06
2911.32                                131.07
2913.01                                131.01
2913.02                                131.08
2913.03                                131.09
2913.04                                131.10
2913.07                                131.33
2913.11                                131.11
2913.21                                131.12
2913.31(B), (C)(2)                     131.26
2913.32                                131.27
2913.33                                131.13
2913.34                                131.29
2913.40                                131.23
2913.401                               131.23
2913.41                                131.14
2913.42                                131.15
2913.43                                131.16
2913.44                                131.28
2913.441                               132.11
2913.45                                131.17
2913.47                                131.23
2913.48                                131.23
2913.51                                131.18
2913.61(B) - (E)                       131.19
2913.71                                131.20
2913.72                                131.25
2913.73                                131.25
2915.01                                134.01
2915.02(A) - (G), (K)                  134.02
2915.03                                134.03
2915.04                                134.04
2915.05                                134.05
2915.06                                134.14
2915.061                               134.14
2915.09                                134.06
2915.091                               134.10
2915.092                               134.11
2915.093                               134.12
2915.094                               134.13
2915.10                                134.07
2915.11                                134.08
2915.12                                134.09
2915.13                                134.12
2915.14                                134.15
2917.01                                132.10
2917.03                                132.01
2917.031                               132.01
2917.04                                132.02
2917.05                                132.03
2917.11                                132.04
2917.12                                132.05
2917.13                                132.06
2917.14                                132.17
2917.21                                132.07
2917.211                               133.20
2917.31                                132.08
2917.32                                132.09
2917.40                                132.13
2917.41                                132.14
2919.01                                135.10
2919.11                                135.11
2919.12                                135.11
2919.121                               135.11
2919.122                               135.11
2919.14                                135.11
2919.18                                135.11
2919.21                                135.13
2919.22(A) - (E), (H)                  135.14
2919.224                               135.12
2919.23                                135.15
2919.231                               135.15
2919.24                                135.18
2919.25                                135.16
2919.27                                135.23
2921.01                                136.01
2921.04                                136.17
2921.13                                136.02
2921.14                                136.14
2921.15                                136.19
2921.21                                136.03
2921.22                                136.04
2921.23                                136.05
2921.24                                136.16
2921.25                                136.16
2921.29                                136.21
2921.31                                136.06
2921.32                                136.07
2921.321                               136.15
2921.33                                136.08
2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F)            70.02
2921.36                                136.13
2921.37                                136.13
2921.42                                35.24
2921.42                                136.09
2921.43                                136.10
2921.44                                136.11
2921.45                                136.12
2921.51                                132.12
2921.52(A) - (D)                       136.18
2923.02                                130.11
2923.03                                130.12
2923.11(M)                             91.01
2923.11                                137.01
2923.12                                137.02
2923.1211(B), (C)                      137.13
2923.1212                              137.13
2923.122(C) - (G)                      137.11
2923.126                               137.13
2923.131                               137.12
2923.15                                137.03
2923.16                                137.04
2923.162                               137.09
2923.18                                137.10
2923.19                                137.06
2923.20                                137.07
2923.201                               137.14
2923.211                               137.08
2923.24                                137.05
2923.43                                93.03
2925.01                                138.01
2925.03(A)-(C), (I)                    138.02
2925.04(A), (B), (C)(5), (G)           138.06
2925.11                                138.03
2925.12                                138.04
2925.13                                138.04
2925.14                                138.13
2925.141                               138.13
2925.31                                138.07
2925.32(B)(4), (D)(2), (F), (G)        138.10
2925.33                                138.10
2925.34                                138.19
2925.36(A)-(C)                         138.08
2925.37(A), (G)                        138.12
2925.50                                138.09
2925.51                                138.11
2925.511                               138.11
2925.55                                138.18
2925.56                                138.18
2925.57                                138.18
2925.58                                138.18
2925.62                                138.20
2927.01                                135.28
2927.02                                135.25
2927.021                               135.25
2927.022                               135.25
2927.023                               135.25
2927.024                               135.25
2927.03                                135.21
2927.11                                131.35
2927.12                                135.22
2927.15                                135.29
2927.17                                133.19
2927.27                                130.20
2929.21                                130.99
2929.22                                130.18
2929.23                                133.99
2929.24                                130.99
2929.25                                130.99
2929.26                                130.99
2929.27                                130.99
2929.28                                130.99
2929.31                                130.99
2929.41                                130.19
2935.041                               131.22
2935.081                               34.16
2935.11                                33.21
2935.28                                70.08
2935.36(E)                             130.02
2981.07                                131.30
2981.11                                130.17
2981.12                                130.17
2981.13(A)                             130.17
3701.81                                135.27
3701.82                                91.40
3701.99(B)                             91.40
3701.99(C)                             135.26
3715.05                                138.18
3715.06                                138.18
3716.11                                135.24
3716.99(C)                             135.24
3719.08(A), (E)                        138.14
3719.172(A), (B)                       138.15
3719.19                                138.09
3719.99(C)                             138.14
3719.99(E)                             138.15
3737.51(A)                             91.36
3737.61                                91.37
3737.62                                91.38
3737.63                                91.39
3737.99(B)                             91.36
3737.99(C)                             91.37
3737.99(D)                             91.38
3737.99(E)                             91.39
3743.01                                91.01
3743.25                                91.10
3743.45                                91.02
3743.54(B) - (F)                       91.03
3743.60(E) - (L)                       91.04
3743.61(E) - (L)                       91.04
3743.63                                91.05
3743.64(C) - (G)                       91.06
3743.65(A) - (E), (G), (H)             91.02
3743.66                                91.07
3743.68                                91.09
3743.80                                91.08
3743.99(C), (D), (F) - (H)             91.99
3767.01                                93.02
3767.02                                93.03
3767.07                                93.03
3767.13                                93.04
3767.16                                93.23
3767.18                                93.24
3767.201                               70.08
3767.29                                93.26
3767.32                                93.27
3767.99(A)                             93.03
3767.99(B)                             93.26
3767.99(C)                             93.04,
                                       93.27
                                       70.08,
3767.99(D)                             93.23,
                                       93.24
3773.06                                137.09
3773.99(A)                             137.09
3780.36                                138.21
3780.99                                138.21
3781.107                               91.34
3781.108(A), (B)                       91.35
3781.55                                133.04
3791.02                                91.34,
                                       91.35
3791.03                                91.34,
                                       91.35
3791.031                               135.26
4301.01                                92.01
4301.20                                92.02
4301.21                                92.03
4301.22                                92.04
4301.244                               92.01
4301.58                                92.05
4301.60                                92.06
4301.61                                92.28
4301.611                               92.29
4301.62                                92.07
4301.63                                92.08
4301.631                               92.09
4301.633                               92.11
4301.634                               92.12
4301.637                               92.14
4301.638                               92.04,
                                       92.13
4301.639(A), (C)                       92.15
4301.64                                92.16
4301.65                                92.10
4301.66                                92.18
4301.67                                92.19
4301.68                                92.19
4301.69                                92.13
4301.70                                92.99
4301.74                                92.27
                                       92.07,
4301.99(A)                             92.10,
                                       92.99
                                       92.04,
4301.99(B)                             92.09,
                                       92.16,
                                       92.19
                                       92.03,
                                       92.05,
                                       92.06,
4301.99(C)                             92.11,
                                       92.13,
                                       92.18,
                                       92.19,
                                       92.27
4301.99(D)                             92.13
4301.99(D), (H)                        92.04
4301.99(E)                             92.08,
                                       92.09
4301.99(F)                             92.12
4301.99(I)                             92.13
4301.99(J)                             92.10
4303.202(D)(2)                         92.17
4303.208(C)                            92.17
4303.25                                92.05
4303.40                                92.26
4303.99(D)                             92.17
4399.09                                92.21
4399.10                                92.22
4399.14                                92.22
4399.15                                92.24
4399.16                                92.25
4399.99(A)                             92.25
4399.99(B)                             92.21
4399.99(C)                             92.22
4399.99(D)                             92.22
4399.99(E)                             92.24
4501.01(LL)                            70.01
4501.01(TT)                            72.061
4503.05                                71.02
4503.11(A)                             71.01
4503.11(D)                             71.01
4503.111(A), (C)                       71.01
4503.111(B)                            71.01
4503.12(A)                             71.01
4503.12(D)                             71.01
4503.21(A), (B)                        71.01
4503.21(C)                             71.01
4503.236                               71.03
4505.18                                71.04
4506.01                                71.45
4506.011                               71.46
4506.03(A) - (C)                       71.48
4506.03(D)                             71.48
4506.04(A), (B)                        71.47
4506.04(C)                             71.47
4506.05(A) - (C)                       71.48
4506.05(D)                             71.48
4506.10(A), (E)                        71.49
4506.12(I)                             71.47
4506.12(J)                             71.47
4506.15(A)                             71.50
4506.15(B)                             71.50
4506.15(C)                             71.50
4506.17(H)                             71.50
4506.17(N)                             71.50
4506.19                                71.51
4506.20                                71.52
4506.23                                71.50
4506.99                                71.99
4507.02(A)                             71.22
4507.03                                71.22
4507.04                                71.22
4507.05(F)                             71.21
4507.05(I)                             71.21
4507.071(B) - (I)                      71.21
4507.071(J)                            71.21
4507.213                               71.22
4507.30                                71.20
4507.31(A)                             71.21
4507.31(B)                             71.21
4507.321                               71.23
4507.35                                71.26
4507.36                                71.27
4507.99                                71.99
4509.74                                73.33
4509.102                               136.02
4510.037(J)                            71.28
                                       71.28,
4510.04                                71.30 -
                                       71.32
4510.05                                71.25
4510.11                                71.28
4510.111                               71.28
4510.12                                71.29
4510.14                                71.30
4510.15                                71.25
4510.16                                71.31
4510.21                                71.32
4510.44                                73.08
4511.01                                70.01
4511.02                                10.16
4511.03                                70.03
4511.031                               70.38
4511.04                                70.04
4511.041                               70.04
4511.042                               70.04
4511.05                                70.05
4511.051                               70.06
4511.08                                70.07
4511.12(A)                             70.30
4511.12(B)                             70.30
4511.121(A) - (C), (E)                 70.30
4511.121(D)                            70.30
4511.13                                70.31
4511.131                               70.32
4511.132                               70.33
4511.14                                70.34
4511.16                                70.35
4511.17                                70.36
4511.18                                70.37
4511.181                               73.01
4511.19(A) - (M)                       73.01
4511.191(A)                            73.01
4511.191(D)                            73.01
4511.192                               73.01
4511.194                               73.03
4511.20                                73.05
4511.201                               73.06
4511.202                               73.07
4511.203                               71.24
4511.21(A) - (G)                       73.10
4511.21(O)                             73.10
4511.21(P)                             73.10
4511.211(A) - (E)                      73.10
4511.211(F)                            73.10
4511.213(A) - (C)                      72.120
4511.213(D)                            72.120
4511.214                               73.16
4511.215                               73.16
4511.216                               73.16
4511.22                                73.11
4511.23                                73.13
4511.24                                73.12
4511.25                                72.001
4511.251                               73.08
4511.26                                72.003
4511.27                                72.004
4511.28                                72.005
4511.29                                72.006
4511.30                                72.007
4511.31                                72.008
4511.32                                72.009
4511.33                                72.010
4511.34                                72.011
4511.35                                72.012
4511.36                                72.013
4511.37                                72.014
4511.38                                72.015
4511.39                                72.016
4511.40                                72.017
4511.41                                72.030
4511.42                                72.031
4511.43                                72.032
4511.431(A)                            72.033
4511.431(B)                            72.033
4511.432(D)                            72.033
4511.44                                72.034
4511.441                               72.035
4511.45                                72.036
4511.451                               72.036
4511.452                               72.038
4511.454                               72.036
4511.46                                72.039
4511.47                                72.040
4511.48                                72.041
4511.481                               72.060
4511.49                                72.055
4511.491                               72.059
4511.50                                72.056
4511.51                                72.057
4511.511                               72.058
4511.512                               72.061
4511.513                               72.062
4511.514                               72.063
4511.52                                75.01
4511.521                               75.02
4511.522                               75.11
4511.53                                75.03
4511.54                                75.04
4511.55                                75.05
4511.56                                75.06
4511.60                                72.002
4511.61                                72.075
4511.62                                72.076
4511.63                                72.077
4511.64                                72.078
4511.65                                70.10
4511.66                                76.01
4511.661                               76.02
4511.67                                76.03
4511.68                                76.04
4511.681                               76.06
4511.69                                76.05
4511.70                                72.115
4511.701                               72.116
4511.71(A)                             72.117
4511.71(B)                             72.117
4511.711(A)                            72.118
4511.711(B)                            72.118
4511.712                               72.119
4511.713(A)                            72.118
4511.713(B)                            72.118
4511.714(A), (B)                       72.117
4511.714(C)                            72.117
4511.714(D)                            72.117
4511.72(A)                             72.120
4511.72(B)                             72.120
4511.73                                72.121
4511.74(A), (B)                        72.122
4511.74(C)                             72.122
4511.75                                72.090
4511.751                               72.091
4511.76(C), (H), (I)                   72.092
4511.761                               72.093
4511.762                               72.094
4511.763                               72.095
4511.764                               72.096
4511.77                                72.097
4511.771                               72.098
4511.772                               72.099
4511.79                                73.04
4511.81(A) - (H), (K), (L)             72.123
4511.82(A), (B), (D)                   72.122
4511.82(C)                             72.122
4511.84                                72.126
4511.85                                72.127
4511.99                                70.99
4511.991                               70.99
4513.02(A), (H)                        74.01
4513.021                               74.02
4513.03                                74.03
4513.04                                74.04
4513.05                                74.05
4513.06                                74.06
4513.07                                74.07
4513.071                               74.08
4513.08                                74.09
4513.09                                74.10
4513.10                                74.11
4513.11                                74.12
4513.111                               74.12
4513.112                               74.12
4513.113                               74.12
4513.114                               74.12
4513.115                               74.12
4513.12                                74.13
4513.13                                74.13
4513.14                                74.15
4513.15                                74.16
4513.16                                74.17
4513.17                                74.18
4513.17(F)                             74.18
4513.171                               74.18
4513.171(B)                            74.18
4513.18                                74.19
4513.181                               74.20
4513.182                               74.21
4513.19                                74.22
4513.20                                74.23
4513.201                               74.24
4513.202                               74.25
4513.21                                74.26
4513.22                                74.27
4513.23                                74.28
4513.24                                74.29
4513.241(C) - (J)                      74.31
4513.241(K)                            74.31
4513.25                                74.29
4513.26                                74.31
4513.261                               74.32
4513.262                               74.33
4513.263                               72.124
4513.27                                74.34
4513.28                                74.35
4513.29                                74.35
4513.30                                74.51
4513.31                                74.52
4513.32                                74.53
4513.33                                74.54
4513.34                                74.50
4513.36                                73.15
4513.361                               73.14
4513.50                                74.38
4513.51(A), (B)                        74.38
4513.51(D)                             74.38
4513.60                                96.01
4513.601                               96.01
4513.61                                96.02
4513.62                                96.03
4513.63                                96.04
4513.64                                96.05
4513.65                                96.05
4513.66                                70.12
4513.68                                70.12
                                       74.11,
                                       74.21,
                                       74.23 -
                                       74.25,
4513.99                                74.29,
                                       74.31,
                                       74.34,
                                       74.35,
                                       74.50 -
                                       74.53
4519.01                                75.25
4519.02                                75.34
4519.20(A), (B)                        75.26
4519.20(C)                             75.26
4519.22(A)                             75.26
4519.22(B)                             75.26
4519.40                                75.27
4519.401                               73.16
4519.41                                75.28
4519.44                                75.29
4519.45                                75.30
4519.46                                75.31
4519.47                                75.32
4519.48                                75.33
4519.66                                75.35
4549.02                                73.30
4549.021                               73.31
4549.03                                73.32
4549.05                                70.11
4549.08                                71.05
4549.081(B)                            70.30
4549.081(C)                            70.30
4549.10                                71.07
4549.11(A)                             71.01
4549.11(B)                             71.01
4549.12(A)                             71.01
4549.12(B)                             71.01
4549.18                                71.05
4549.20                                74.39
4731.481                               138.17
4731.99(F)                             138.17
4734.161                               138.17
4734.99(B)                             138.17
4933.18                                131.32
4933.19                                131.32
5577.02                                74.55
5577.03                                74.56
5577.04                                74.56
5577.041                               74.56
5577.042                               74.61
5577.043                               74.61
5577.044                               74.61
5577.045                               74.61
5577.05                                74.57
5577.06                                74.57
5577.10                                74.58
5577.11                                74.59
5577.12                                74.60
5577.15                                74.53
5577.99(A)                             74.55
5577.99(C)                             74.56,
                                       74.57
5577.99(D)                             74.58
5577.99(E)                             74.59
5589.01                                94.030
5589.02                                94.033
5589.08                                72.128
5589.081                               74.37
5589.12                                131.10
5589.99(A)                             94.030
                                       72.128,
5589.99(B)                             74.37,
                                       94.033,
                                       131.10
5739.01(M)                             91.34
                                       
 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.  Date Passed Code Section
92-136    1-19-1993   36.20
96-110    2-20-1996   37.01
97-120    3-17-1997   36.03
97-121    3-17-1997   95.11
97-134    5-19-1997   37.02
97-137    6-2-1997    36.04
97-183    1-5-1998    95.11
98-102    1-20-1998   37.03
98-168    12-21-1998  95.11
2001-028  8-20-2001   153.166
2002-020  7-15-2002   37.05
2003-011  4-21-2003   34.17
2003-014  5-5-2003    TSO Table III
2003-036  7-21-2003   TSO Table II
2003-045  9-2-2003    32.014
2004-010  5-17-2004   35.07
2004-012  6-7-2004    TSO Table II
2004-024  9-7-2004    TSO Table II
2004-027  9-7-2004    TSO Table II
2004-025  9-20-2004   TSO Table II
2004-033  11-1-2004   TSO Table II
2004-040  - -         31.07
2005-007  2-7-2005    TSO Table III
2005-010  3-21-2005   35.06
2005-012  4-4-2005    TSO Table II
2005-020  6-6-2005    TSO Table III
2005-021  6-6-2005    35.05
2005-022  - -2005     TSO Table II
2005-023  6-6-2005    TSO Table II
2005-025  6-20-2005   TSO Table II
2005-045  9-3-2005    TSO Table II
2005-041  9-6-2005    31.05
2005-042  9-6-2005    31.06
2005-062  12-19-2005  TSO Table II
2006-005  - -2006     TSO Table II
2006-009  - -2006     TSO Table II
2006-015  7-5-2006    TSO Table II
2006-016  9-11-2006   TSO Table V
2006-019  9-18-2006   TSO Table II
2006-020  10-17-2006  TSO Table II
2006-021A 11-20-2006  TSO Table II
2006-028  12-18-2006  TSO Table II
2007-006  - -2007     TSO Table II
2007-007  4-2-2007    TSO Table IV
2007-010  5-7-2007    TSO Table II
2007-012  7-2-2007    TSO Table II
2007-016  7-23-2007   35.08
2007-022  9-14-2007   TSO Table II
2008-002  1-22-2008   TSO Table II
2008-022  6-16-2008   TSO Table II
2008-038  10-6-2008   TSO Table II
2008-044  10-20-2008  TSO Table II
2009-041  11-16-2009  37.20 -
                      37.33
2010-033  10-4-2010   TSO Table II
2011-008  3-21-2011   TSO Table II
2012-008  5-7-2012    TSO Table V
2012-016  5-21-2012   TSO Table II
2013-002  - -2013     36.23
2013-008  3-3-2013    35.04
2013-009  3-3-2013    33.03
2013-011  3-18-2013   35.45 -
                      35.50
2013-65   1-6-2014    35.20 -
                      35.30
2014-005  2-18-2014   33.02
2016-036  10-17-2016  TSO Table II
2016-042  10-31-2016  TSO Table II
2016-041  11-21-2016  37.06
2016-043  11-21-2016  TSO Table II
2016-044  12-5-2016   TSO Table III
2017-014  3-20-2017   36.22
2017-042  8-21-2017   TSO Table III
2018-025  6-18-2018   TSO Table II
2018-027  6-18-2018   TSO Table II
2018-029  6-18-2018   TSO Table II
2020-007  2-3-2020    TSO Table II
2020-025  6-1-2020    TSO Table II
2020-053  11-2-2020   TSO Table III
2022-025  7-5-2022    TSO Table III
2022-026  7-5-2022    TSO Table III
2023-025  6-5-2023    TSO Table III
2023-026  6-5-2023    TSO Table II
2023-028  6-20-2023   TSO Table II
                     
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.    Date Passed Code Section
450         10-16-1973  132.15
476         12-1-1975   76.13
505         5-17-1977   70.14
521         4-18-1978   76.14
560         10-1-1979   34.01
700         12-28-1983  153.082
87-130      10-19-1987  72.133
90-113      8-6-1990    70.13
91-81       7-16-1991   90.99
92-104      4-6-1992    Ch. 78 Schd. I
92-129      10-19-1992  76.09
93-105      2-1-1993    36.21
94-122      7-5-1994    72.133
94-150      11-7-1994   51.01 -
                        51.10
94-148      11-21-1994  53.01
94-155      12-19-1994  Ch. 78 Schd. I
94-156      12-19-1994  72.133
95-188      1-16-1995   35.01
95-107      2-21-1995   31.01
95-110      2-21-1995   50.123
95-120      4-3-1995    50.032
95-128      5-15-1995   50.121
95-129      5-15-1995   50.122
                        95.01 -
95-131      5-15-1995   95.10,
                        95.99
95-137      6-19-1995   Ch. 77 Schd. I
95-138      6-19-1995   Ch. 77 Schd. I
95-139      6-19-1995   Ch. 78 Schd. I
95-140      6-19-1995   94.050 -
                        94.054
95-141      6-19-1995   72.133
95-145      6-19-1995   72.133
95-156      9-5-1995    Ch. 78 Schd. I
95-162      9-18-1995   34.31 -
                        34.33
95-182      11-20-1995  Ch. 78 Schd. II
95-186      12-4-1995   35.03
                        33.01,
                        50.032,
                        50.120 -
95-190      12-4-1995   50.124,
                        50.148,
                        94.052,
                        110.04
95-194      12-4-1995   36.01
96-102      1-16-1996   152.123
96-103      2-5-1996    150.01
96-109      2-5-1996    35.01
                        152.001 -
                        152.011,
                        152.025 -
                        152.029,
                        152.045 -
96-106      3-20-1996   152.048,
                        152.065 -
                        152.084,
                        152.100 -
                        152.102,
                        152.115 -
                        152.123
96-114      4-15-1996   36.05
96-124      7-15-1996   33.01
96-135      7-15-1996   50.124
96-136      8-5-1996    51.05
96-137      8-19-1996   76.09
                        52.01 -
96-139      8-19-1996   52.06,
                        52.99
96-143      8-19-1996   111.01 -
                        111.10
96-147      9-3-1996    Ch. 78 Schd. I
96-148      9-3-1996    Ch. 78 Schd. I
96-146      9-16-1996   Ch. 77 Schd. III
96-154      9-16-1996   Ch. 77 Schd. II
                        153.001 -
                        153.016,
                        153.030 -
                        153.044,
                        153.060 -
                        153.067,
                        153.080 -
                        153.094,
                        153.110 -
                        153.113,
                        153.130 -
                        153.148,
                        153.165 -
96-152      10-7-1996   153.178,
                        153.190 -
                        153.198,
                        153.200,
                        153.201,
                        153.215 -
                        153.218,
                        153.230 -
                        153.237,
                        153.250 -
                        153.261,
                        153.275 -
                        153.281,
                        153.999
96-159      10-7-1996   150.02
96-166      10-21-1996  132.16
96-173      11-18-1996  153.232
96-174      11-18-1996  50.123
                        50.032,
                        50.120 -
96-175      11-18-1996  50.124,
                        94.052,
                        110.04
96-176      11-18-1996  Ch. 78 Schd. I
96-185      12-16-1996  150.03
96-187      1-6-1997    TSO Table I
96-190      1-6-1997    35.01
97-103      2-3-1997    35.01
                        50.001 -
                        50.010,
                        50.025 -
                        50.031,
                        50.045 -
                        50.052,
                        50.065,
                        50.066,
97-104      2-3-1997    50.080 -
                        50.087,
                        50.100 -
                        50.106,
                        50.120,
                        50.140 -
                        50.148,
                        50.165 -
                        50.167,
                        50.999
                        94.001 -
97-105      2-3-1997    94.021,
                        94.999
97-109      2-18-1997   31.02
97-139      6-16-1997   132.15
97-148      8-18-1997   76.15
97-167      11-17-1997  36.02
                        50.032,
                        50.121 -
                        50.123,
97-168      11-17-1997  50.148,
                        94.007,
                        94.052,
                        110.04,
                        111.02
97-177      12-1-1997   50.124
97-178      12-1-1997   35.01
97-165      1-5-1998    Ch. 77 Schd. IV
98-101      1-20-1998   35.01
98-103      1-20-1998   TSO Table I
                        153.012,
98-105      2-2-1998    153.253,
                        153.257
98-107      2-17-1998   93.01
98-111      3-2-1998    94.048
                        110.01 -
98-116      4-6-1998    110.06,
                        110.99
                        94.090 -
98-119      4-20-1998   94.096,
                        94.999
98-121      5-4-1998    94.048
98-122      5-4-1998    153.199
98-127      5-18-1998   73.01
98-132      7-6-1998    50.121,
                        50.122
98-137      7-20-1998   34.04
98-147      9-21-1998   35.02
98-160      11-2-1998   94.048
98-161      11-2-1998   35.02
                        153.165 -
98-159      11-16-1998  153.169,
                        153.172,
                        153.175
97-168      11-17-1998  50.120,
                        50.124
98-164      12-7-1998   36.05
98-172      12-21-1998  153.257
99-103      3-1-1999    153.175
99-112      3-15-1999   34.01
99-119      4-19-1999   Ch. 77 Schd. II
99-122      6-7-1999    37.04
99-128      6-21-1999   Ch. 78 Schd. I
99-133      7-19-1999   Ch. 78 Schd. II
99-146      - -         Ch. 78 Schd. I
99-150      - -1999     153.041
99-155      - -1999     35.01
99-161      12-20-1999  TSO Table I
99-170      - -1999     36.02
2000-007    2-7-2000    94.048
2000-012    2-22-2000   36.06
2000-13     2-22-2000   Ch. 78 Schd. I
2000-023    5-1-2000    Ch. 77 Schd. II
2000-031    6-19-2000   34.31
2000-040    7-17-2000   31.01
2000-046    7-17-2000   75.07 -
                        75.09
2000-044    8-7-2000    TSO Table I
2000-045    8-7-2000    34.041
2000-050    8-7-2000    34.31
2000-069    12-4-2000   153.149
2000-72     12-18-2000  36.05
2001-005    3-19-2001   153.253
2001-018    4-2-2001    150.04
2001-031    8-20-2001   TSO Table I
2001-033    10-1-2001   153.171
2001-034    10-1-2001   153.012
2002-008    4-1-2002    72.056
2002-022    9-16-2002   153.012,
                        153.194
2002-023    10-7-2002   153.044,
                        153.252
2002-047    12-16-2002  TSO Table I
2003-001    1-21-2003   TSO Table III
2003-012    4-21-2003   Ch. 78 Schd. I
2003-013    4-21-2003   37.45 -
                        37.48
2003-025    6-2-2003    50.122
2003-033    7-21-2003   31.04
2003-034    8-4-2003    TSO Table II
2003-035    8-4-2003    TSO Table II
2003-037    8-4-2003    TSO Table II
2003-044    8-20-2003   50.123
2003-050    9-15-2003   73.01
2003-054    10-20-2003  50.121
2003-064    12-15-2003  35.01
2003-062    1-5-2004    31.03
2004-002    1-20-2004   TSO Table III
2004-007    5-3-2004    50.121
2004-016    7-19-2004   75.10
2004-019    8-2-2004    36.05
2004-030    10-18-2004  TSO Table III
2004-035    10-18-2004  TSO Table II
                        154.001 -
                        154.007,
                        154.020,
                        154.021,
                        154.030 -
                        154.037,
                        154.050 -
                        154.052,
                        154.060 -
                        154.065,
                        154.075 -
                        154.080,
                        154.090 -
                        154.095,
                        154.105 -
                        154.108,
                        154.120,
2004-038    12-20-2004  154.130 -
                        154.134,
                        154.145 -
                        154.147,
                        154.160 -
                        154.171,
                        154.185 -
                        154.200,
                        154.210,
                        154.211,
                        154.220 -
                        154.224,
                        154.235 -
                        154.237,
                        154.250,
                        154.251,
                        154.260 -
                        154.263,
                        154.275
2004-044    12-20-2004  50.121
2004-046    12-20-2004  TSO Table II
2004-047    1-3-2005    TSO Table II
2004-048    1-3-2005    TSO Table II
2005-002    1-3-2005    50.121
2005-004    1-18-2005   TSO Table II
2005-005    2-7-2005    TSO Table II
2005-006    2-7-2005    36.20
2005-008    3-7-2005    TSO Table III
2005-009    3-21-2005   36.09
2005-019    6-6-2005    76.04
2005-024    6-6-2005    50.121
2005-028    7-18-2005   Ch. 77 Schd. III
2005-036    8-15-2005   TSO Table II
2005-040    9-6-2005    TSO Table I
2005-051    10-17-2005  TSO Table II
2005-054    - -2005     153.202
2005-061    12-19-2005  36.05
2005-063    1-3-2006    TSO Table III
2006-008    7-5-2006    153.174
2007-017    8-20-2007   35.09
2007-027    11-19-2007  36.08
2008-001    1-22-2008   36.05
2008-004    1-22-2008   113.01
2008-003    2-4-2008    37.09
2008-005    2-4-2008    50.123
2008-007    2-4-2008    50.121
2008-012    4-7-2008    TSO Table II
2008-017    5-5-2008    TSO Table II
2008-025    8-4-2008    TSO Table II
2008-040    10-6-2008   110.07
2008-045    11-3-2008   TSO Table II
2008-050    11-17-2008  TSO Table II
2009-001    4-6-2009    TSO Table II
2009-008    5-4-2009    TSO Table II
2009-021    6-1-2009    TSO Table II
2009-017    6-15-2009   36.42
2009-042    11-2-2009   33.01
2010-007    4-5-2010    TSO Table II
2010-010    4-19-2010   TSO Table II
                        153.081,
2010-003    5-3-2010    153.087,
                        153.111
2010-004    5-3-2010    153.253
2010-011    5-17-2010   TSO Table II
2010-021    7-19-2010   TSO Table II
2010-022    8-16-2010   TSO Table IV
2010-035    10-18-2010  TSO Table II
2010-037    11-15-2010  TSO Table II
                        151.001 -
                        151.010,
                        151.025 -
                        151.036,
                        151.050 -
2010-043    12-6-2010   151.058,
                        151.070 -
                        151.075,
                        151.090,
                        151.091,
                        151.999
2010-044    12-20-2010  36.41
2011-001    1-3-2011    TSO Table II
2011-011    5-16-2011   TSO Table II
2011-022    10-3-2011   36.40
2011-030    12-5-2011   TSO Table II
2012-004    3-19-2012   TSO Table II
2012-022    6-4-2012    TSO Table II
2012-027    8-6-2012    TSO Table III
2012-032    8-20-2012   96.02
2012-034    8-20-2012   TSO Table II
2012-046    10-1-2012   36.38
2012-050    10-8-2012   TSO Table II
2012-051    10-8-2012   36.39
2012-53     11-5-2012   TSO Table II
2012-062    12-17-2012  TSO Table IV
2013-012    - -2013     TSO Table II
2012-063    1-7-2013    TSO Table II
2012-065    1-7-2013    TSO Table IV
2013-013    3-18-2013   TSO Table II
2013-016    3-18-2013   TSO Table II
2013-018    4-15-2013   TSO Table II
2013-020    6-3-2013    36.05
2013-027    7-1-2013    TSO Table II
2013-028    7-15-2013   TSO Table II
2013-030    7-15-2013   TSO Table III
                        153.012,
                        153.251,
2013-031    7-15-2013   153.252,
                        153.254 -
                        153.256
2013-037    8-5-2013    37.07
2013-041    8-19-2013   37.08
2013-44     9-16-2013   TSO Table III
2013-51     11-4-2013   TSO Table II
2013-52     11-4-2013   TSO Table II
2013-57     12-2-2013   TSO Table II
2013-63     1-6-2014    35.01
2014-02     1-21-2014   TSO Table II
2014-007    2-18-2014   31.08
2014-008    3-3-2014    TSO Table II
2014-015    4-21-2014   TSO Table II
2014-017    7-7-2014    153.171
2014-034    11-17-2014  35.01
2015-002    2-2-2015    TSO Table II
2015-006    3-16-2015   50.121
2015-012    4-6-2015    TSO Table II
2015-013    4-6-2015    TSO Table II
2015-018    6-1-2015    36.37
2015-020    6-1-2015    TSO Table II
2015-026    8-3-2015    TSO Table IV
2015-030    8-17-2015   72.131,
                        72.132
2015-031    8-17-2015   90.28,
                        90.99
                        38.01 -
2015-032    9-21-2015   38.25,
                        38.99
2015-038    10-19-2015  TSO Table II
2015-044    12-21-2015  TSO Table II
2016-004    3-21-2016   36.36
2016-002    4-18-2016   TSO Table II
2016-009    4-18-2016   35.01
2016-010    5-2-2016    TSO Table II
2016-011    5-2-2016    TSO Table II
2016-013    6-20-2016   TSO Table II
2016-022    8-15-2016   TSO Table II
2016-031    10-3-2016   TSO Table I
2016-047    12-5-2016   37.05
2017-003    2-21-2017   TSO Table II
2017-008    2-21-2017   36.35
2017-010    2-21-2017   36.07
2017-012    2-21-2017   TSO Table II
2017-011    3-6-2017    94.120 -
                        94.127
2017-015    3-20-2017   94.128
                        112.01 -
2017-016    3-20-2017   112.07,
                        112.99
2017-018    3-20-2017   TSO Table II
2017-017    4-3-2017    TSO Table I
2017-024    6-5-2017    36.05,
                        50.122
2017-026    6-5-2017    TSO Table III
2017-036    8-7-2017    36.05,
                        50.122
2017-037    8-7-2017    TSO Table II
2017-039    8-21-2017   94.120 -
                        94.127
2017-045    9-5-2017    TSO Table II
2017-051    9-21-2017   TSO Table II
2017-056    10-16-2017  TSO Table II
2017-059    11-6-2017   TSO Table II
2017-060    12-4-2017   TSO Table III
2017-061    12-4-2017   35.10
2017-062    12-4-2017   TSO Table II
2017-065    12-18-2017  TSO Table III
                        36.05,
2017-066    12-18-2017  50.122,
                        50.123
2017-070    12-18-2017  153.150
2015-017    5-15-2017   TSO Table II
2018-001    1-2-2018    35.10
2018-008    2-20-2018   TSO Table II
2018-009    2-20-2018   TSO Table II
2018-010    2-20-2018   TSO Table II
2018-011    2-20-2018   TSO Table II
2018-012    2-20-2018   36.05,
                        50.122
2018-013    2-20-2018   TSO Table II
2018-014    3-5-2018    TSO Table II
2018-015    3-5-2018    35.07
2018-016    3-5-2018    TSO Table II
2018-017    5-7-2018    38.26
2018-018    3-19-2018   TSO Table II
2018-019    4-2-2018    TSO Table II
2018-030    6-18-2018   TSO Table II
2018-031    7-2-2018    TSO Table II
2018-034    8-6-2018    36.05
2018-035    8-6-2018    36.05
2018-036    9-4-2018    36.05
2018-037    9-4-2018    76.15
2018-038    8-20-2018   TSO Table II
2018-039    9-4-2018    35.01
2018-040    9-4-2018    36.05
2018-041    9-17-2018   TSO Table II
2018-043    9-4-2018    36.05
2018-047    10-15-2018  36.05
2018-051    10-15-2018  TSO Table II
2018-052    12-17-2018  36.05,
                        50.033
2018-052(B) 10-1-2018   TSO Table II
2018-054    11-5-2018   TSO Table II
2018-056    12-3-2018   Adopting Ordinance
2018-057    12-17-2018  TSO Table III
2018-058    12-17-2018  TSO Table III
2018-059    12-17-2018  TSO Table III
2018-061    12-17-2018  35.01
2018-062    12-17-2018  36.05
2018-064    12-17-2018  36.05
2018-065    1-7-2019    TSO Table II
2019-001    1-7-2019    TSO Table II
2019-002    1-7-2019    TSO Table II
2019-004    1-22-2019   TSO Table II
2019-005    1-22-2019   TSO Table II
2019-006    1-22-2019   TSO Table II
2019-008    2-19-2019   36.05
2019-009    2-19-2019   TSO Table II
2019-010    2-19-2019   TSO Table II
2019-012    2-19-2019   TSO Table II
2019-013    5-6-2019    TSO Table II
2019-015    3-18-2019   36.05
2019-016    4-1-2019    50.088
2019-019    4-1-2019    TSO Table II
2019-023    5-6-2019    TSO Table II
2019-024    5-6-2019    TSO Table II
2019-025    5-20-2019   TSO Table II
2019-026    6-3-2019    TSO Table II
2019-027    7-1-2019    35.01
2019-028    7-1-2019    30.02
2019-033    7-15-2019   36.05
2019-038    7-15-2019   TSO Table II
2019-043    9-3-2019    50.148
2019-045    8-19-2019   TSO Table II
                        153.165 -
2019-046    9-3-2019    153.169,
                        153.172,
                        153.175
2019-048    8-19-2019   TSO Table II
2019-049    8-19-2019   TSO Table II
2019-051    9-16-2019   TSO Table II
2019-054    9-16-2019   TSO Table II
2019-055    10-7-2019   TSO Table II
2019-056    11-4-2019   TSO Table III
2019-057    10-21-2019  TSO Table II
2019-058    11-18-2019  TSO Table III
2019-060    11-18-2019  TSO Table III
2019-063    12-16-2019  36.05,
                        50.121
2019-065    12-16-2019  35.01
2020-001    1-21-2020   TSO Table II
2020-002    1-21-2020   TSO Table II
2020-005    1-6-2020    TSO Table II
2020-008    2-3-2020    TSO Table II
2020-009    2-3-2020    TSO Table II
2020-012    3-2-2020    TSO Table II
2020-013    3-16-2020   TSO Table II
2020-014    3-16-2020   TSO Table III
2020-018    4-6-2020    TSO Table II
2020-020    4-16-2020   TSO Table II
2020-023    5-4-2020    TSO Table II
2020-024    6-1-2020    36.05,
                        50.124
2020-028    7-20-2020   36.05
2020-033    7-20-2020   TSO Table II
2020-037    8-17-2020   TSO Table II
2020-038    8-17-2020   TSO Table II
2020-039    8-17-2020   TSO Table II
2020-040    8-17-2020   TSO Table II
2020-041    8-17-2020   Adopting Ordinance
2020-047    9-21-2020   TSO Table II
2020-048    10-5-2020   TSO Table II
2020-050    10-19-2020  TSO Table II
2020-052    11-2-2020   TSO Table II
2020-054    11-16-2020  38.01
2020-055    11-16-2020  TSO Table III
2020-056    11-16-2020  TSO Table III
2020-059    11-16-2020  TSO Table II
2020-060    11-2-2020   TSO Table II
2020-061    12-7-2020   TSO Table II
2020-062    12-21-2020  TSO Table II
2020-063    12-21-2020  TSO Table II
2021-001    2-1-2021    TSO Table II
2021-002    2-1-2021    TSO Table II
2021-003    1-19-2021   TSO Table II
2021-005    2-1-2021    TSO Table III
2021-007    3-1-2021    TSO Table II
2021-008    4-5-2021    TSO Table III
2021-010    3-15-2021   TSO Table II
2021-011    3-15-2021   TSO Table II
2021-012    3-15-2021   TSO Table II
2021-013    4-19-2021   50.107
2021-015    7-6-2021    TSO Table II
2021-016    4-19-2021   TSO Table II
2021-018    5-3-2021    TSO Table II
2021-019    5-17-2021   TSO Table II
2021-020    6-21-2021   114.01 -
                        114.14
2021-022    6-7-2021    36.43
2021-023    6-7-2021    TSO Table II
2021-025    7-6-2021    TSO Table II
2021-027    7-6-2021    Adopting Ordinance
2021-028    7-19-2021   TSO Table II
2021-030    8-2-2021    35.01
2021-032    8-16-2021   TSO Table II
2021-033    8-2-2021    TSO Table II
2021-037    8-16-2021   TSO Table II
2021-041    9-7-2021    TSO Table II
2021-042    9-7-2021    TSO Table II
2021-043    9-20-2021   TSO Table II
2021-044    11-15-2021  TSO Table III
2021-045    11-15-2021  TSO Table III
2021-047    11-15-2021  36.05
2021-048    11-15-2021  TSO Table II
2021-049    11-15-2021  TSO Table II
2021-051    12-6-2021   TSO Table II
2021-053    12-20-2021  TSO Table II
2022-001    1-18-2022   TSO Table II
2022-003    2-7-2022    TSO Table II
2022-004    2-7-2022    TSO Table II
2022-005    2-7-2022    TSO Table II
2022-010    4-18-2022   TSO Table II
2022-011    4-18-2022   36.05
2022-012    4-18-2022   TSO Table II
2022-013    4-18-2022   TSO Table II
2022-014    4-18-2022   TSO Table III
2022-015    4-18-2022   TSO Table II
2022-016    4-18-2022   TSO Table II
2022-018    5-2-2022    TSO Table II
2022-020    5-2-2022    TSO Table II
2022-021    5-16-2022   36.05
2022-022    6-6-2022    TSO Table II
2022-027    8-1-2022    TSO Table II
2022-030    7-28-2022   TSO Table III
2022-031    7-28-2022   TSO Table III
2022-032    8-15-2022   TSO Table II
2022-035    8-15-2022   TSO Table II
2022-036    8-15-2022   36.44
2022-039    9-6-2022    TSO Table II
2022-044    10-17-2022  TSO Table II
2022-045    10-17-2022  TSO Table II
2022-047    11-7-2022   TSO Table III
2022-049    11-21-2022  TSO Table II
2022-050    11-21-2022  TSO Table II
2022-052    12-5-2022   TSO Table II
2022-053    12-5-2022   TSO Table III
2022-059    12-19-2022  TSO Table III
2022-061    1-3-2023    TSO Table II
2022-062    1-3-2023    TSO Table II
2022-063    12-19-2022  35.01
2023-002    1-3-2023    35.01
2023-004    1-17-2023   TSO Table II
2023-009    2-5-2023    35.01
2023-011    3-6-2023    TSO Table II
2023-014    4-17-2023   TSO Table II
2023-015    4-17-2023   TSO Table III
2023-016    4-17-2023   TSO Table II
2023-017    5-1-2023    TSO Table II
2023-018    5-1-2023    TSO Table II
2023-020    5-1-2023    TSO Table II
2023-022    6-5-2023    TSO Table II
2023-023    6-5-2023    TSO Table II
2023-027    6-5-2023    TSO Table II
2023-029    8-7-2023    TSO Table I
2023-032    8-7-2023    TSO Table II
2023-034    8-21-2023   TSO Table III
2023-035    8-21-2023   TSO Table II
2023-040    9-18-2023   TSO Table II
2023-041    9-18-2023   36.45
2023-042    10-16-2023  36.05
2023-045    10-2-2023   131.36
2023-048    11-20-2023  TSO Table II
2023-051    11-20-2023  TSO Table III
2023-052    11-20-2023  TSO Table III
2023-057    12-18-2023  TSO Table II
2023-059    12-18-2023  TSO Table II
                       
 
 
