WEST CARROLLTON, OHIO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 Replacement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance No. 3760, passed November 28, 2023
State legislation current through February 28, 2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
 
   We, Jeffery Sanner, Mayor, and Thomas E. Reilly, Clerk of Council of West
Carrollton, Ohio, pursuant to Ohio Revised Code 731.23 and 731.42, hereby
certify that the general and permanent ordinances of the City of West
Carrollton, Ohio, as revised, rearranged, compiled, renumbered as to sections,
codified and printed herewith in component codes are correctly set forth and
constitute the Code of Ordinances of West Carrollton, Ohio, as amended to April
22, 2018.
                     /s/   Jeffery Sanner
                        Mayor
                     /s/   Thomas E. Reilly
                        Council Clerk
ROSTER OF OFFICIALS
(2024)
 
ADMINISTRATION
Mayor            Richard Barnhart
Deputy Mayor     Angela Fryman
Law Director     Lori Denlinger
City Manager     Amber Holloway
Finance Director Julie Duffy
                 
 
CITY COUNCIL
Michael Boyle  Keith Tilton
Angela Fryman  Jill Tomlin
Richard Dobson Amanda Zennie
               
 
CHARTER OF THE MUNICIPALITY
OF WEST CARROLLTON
Section
PREAMBLE
ARTICLE I: NAME AND BOUNDARIES
1.01   Name and boundaries
ARTICLE II: FORM OF GOVERNMENT
2.01   Form of government
ARTICLE III: POWERS
3.01   Powers of the municipality
3.02   The manner of exercise of power
3.03   Construction
3.04   Intergovernmental relations
ARTICLE IV: THE COUNCIL
4.01   Powers
4.02   Selection and term
4.03   Qualifications
4.04   Mayor
4.05   Deputy-Mayor
4.06   Vacancies, creation of
4.07   Vacancies, filling of
4.08   Salary of council members
4.09   Election contests
4.10   Rules, journal
4.11   General powers and duties
4.12   Investigations
4.13   Independent audit
4.14   Meetings of council
4.15   Clerk of council
4.16   Commencement of term
ARTICLE V: ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
5.01   Action requiring an ordinance
5.02   Introduction of ordinances
5.03   Passage of ordinances
5.04   Effective date
5.05   Publication of ordinances
5.06   Initiative and referendum
5.07   Adoption of ordinances by reference
5.08   Resolutions
ARTICLE VI: CITY MANAGER
6.01   Appointment of City Manager
6.02   Duties of City Manager
6.03   Absence or disability of the City    Manager
6.04   Removal of the City Manger
6.05   Council: relation to City Manager
ARTICLE VII: ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS
7.01   Creation of departments
7.02   Department heads
7.03   Administrative code
7.04   Departmental divisions
7.05   Central purchasing
7.06   Competitive bidding
7.07   Over-expenditures
7.08   Personal financial interest
7.09   Illegal contracts voidable
7.10   Department of Law - Law Director
7.11   Department of Finance
7.12   Department of Safety
7.13   Creation of new departments
ARTICLE VIII: FINANCE, TAXATION, AND DEBT
8.01   Debt service levy
8.02   Operating levy
8.03   Other tax levies
8.04   Procedure in bond issues - debt limitations
8.05   General
8.06   Fiscal year
ARTICLE IX: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
9.01   Planning Commission
9.02   Comprehensive plan
9.03   Board of Zoning Appeals
9.04   Removal of members of Planning Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals
9.05   Recreation Board
9.06   Creation of new boards and commissions
ARTICLE X: PERSONNEL
10.01   Merit system established
10.02   Exempt positions
10.03   Personnel Officer
10.04   Personnel Appeals Board
10.05   Duties of Personnel Appeals Board
10.06   Assessments and contributions (11-3-15)
10.07   Penalties
10.08   Promotional examinations
ARTICLE XI: NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS
11.01   Nominations
11.02   Regular municipal elections
11.03   Special elections
11.04   Conduct of elections
ARTICLE XII: GENERAL PROVISIONS
12.01   Oath of office
12.02   Official bonds
12.03   Fees
12.04   Removal from office
12.05   Enforcement of subpoenas
12.06   Amendments to charter
12.07   Effect of partial invalidity
12.08   Publication
12.09   Incorporation of general law
ARTICLE XIII: TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
13.01   Effective date
13.02   Succession
13.03   Continuation of Council
13.04   Continuation of ordinances
13.05   Continuation of officers
13.06   Continuation of employees
13.07   Transfer of records and property
13.08   Continuation of contracts and improvements
13.09   Pending actions and proceedings
13.10   Transfer of finance functions
PREAMBLE
   We, the people of the Municipality of West Carrollton, Montgomery County,
Ohio, in order to secure the benefits of local self-government under the
Constitution of the State of Ohio, do adopt this Charter for the government of
the Municipality of West Carrollton.
ARTICLE I. NAME AND BOUNDARIES
§ 1.01 NAME AND BOUNDARIES.
   The present Municipality, known as the City of West Carrollton, Ohio, shall
continue to be a body politic and incorporated with the same boundaries, but
with power and authority to change its boundaries and annex other territory
contiguous thereto in the manner authorized by the general laws of Ohio.
(Amendment adopted by the electorate, 11-4-80)
ARTICLE II. FORM OF GOVERNMENT
§ 2.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for by this Charter shall be known as the
Council - Manager Plan.
ARTICLE III. POWERS
§ 3.01 POWERS OF THE MUNICIPALITY.
   Except as restricted by this Charter, the Municipality shall have all powers
possible for a municipality to have under the Constitution and laws
of the State of Ohio, as fully and completely as though they were specifically
enumerated in this Charter.
§ 3.02 THE MANNER OF EXERCISE OF POWER.
   All powers of the Municipality shall be exercised in the manner prescribed
in this Charter, or, if not prescribed herein, in such manner as shall be
provided by ordinance or resolution of the Council.
(Amendment adopted by the electorate, 11-4-80)
§ 3.03 CONSTRUCTION.
   The powers of the Municipality under this Charter shall be construed
liberally in favor of the Municipality, and the specific mention of particular
powers in the Charter shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general
power stated in this Article.
§ 3.04 INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS.
   The Municipality may exercise any of its powers or perform any of its
functions and may participate in the financing thereof, jointly or in
cooperation, by contract or otherwise, with any one or more states or civil
divisions or agencies thereof, or the United States or any agency thereof.
ARTICLE IV. THE COUNCIL
§ 4.01 POWERS.
   All legislative powers of the Municipality shall be vested in a Council
consisting of six (6) councilmen and a separately elected mayor.
§ 4.02 SELECTION AND TERM.
   All councilmen shall be elected at large by the qualified electors of the
Municipality for four (4) years overlapping terms, in the manner provided by
Article XI of this Charter.
§ 4.03 QUALIFICATIONS.
   Any qualified elector who has lived in the Municipality for one (1) year
prior to filing his petition of candidacy shall be eligible to hold the office
of councilman or mayor.
§ 4.04 MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall be elected by separate ballot from the Municipality at large
for a four (4) year term. The Mayor shall be a member of Council and have the
right to vote on all issues before the Council, but shall have no power of
veto.
   In addition to his powers, rights and duties as a member of Council, the
Mayor, when present, shall preside at meetings of the Council, shall be
recognized as official head of the Municipality for ceremonial purposes, by the
Governor for military purposes and by the Courts for the purpose of serving
civil process, but he shall exercise no administrative authority.
   The Mayor shall also have jurisdiction in civil and criminal cases as
provided by the laws of Ohio, including all statutes now or hereafter enacted,
until such jurisdiction is placed elsewhere by law.
§ 4.05 DEPUTY-MAYOR.
   The Council shall elect from among its members a Deputy-Mayor who shall act
as Mayor during the absence or disability of the Mayor and, if a vacancy
occurs, shall serve as Mayor until the next regular municipal election
occurring not less than one hundred (100) days after the occurrence of the
vacancy. At such election a Mayor shall be elected to serve for the unexpired
term, if any; if not, for a full term. Upon the election of a Mayor, the
Deputy-Mayor may retain his position as councilman for the remainder of his
unexpired term.
   In the event that a vacancy should occur in the office of Mayor and the
Deputy-Mayor is required to serve as Mayor, the Council shall select a person
to fill the vacancy in Council as provided in § 4.07
hereof; provided, however, that a person so chosen shall serve only until a
Mayor is elected, as provided herein.
§ 4.06 VACANCIES, CREATION OF.
   Once elected and sworn in, a member of Council may vacate his office:
   (1)   By death; or
   (2)   By resignation, accepted by a majority of the remaining members of the
Council; or
   (3)   By ceasing to be a qualified elector; or
   (4)   By removal of his permanent residence to a place outside the
boundaries of the Municipality; or
   (5)   By failure to attend three (3) consecutive regular meetings of Council
without being excused by the Council; or
   (6)   By removal from office for malfeasance; or
   (7)   By the acceptance of and entering upon the duties of an incompatible
office; or
   (8)   By recall of the qualified voters of the Municipality under the
procedure provided by § 705.92 of the Ohio Revised Code.
§ 4.07 VACANCIES, FILLING OF.
   Vacancies in the office of Councilman shall be filled within sixty (60) days
by vote of a majority of the remaining Council members by the selection of a
person qualified as provided in § 4.03 hereof. If the Council should fail to
act within sixty (60) days, the Mayor, or Deputy-Mayor when acting as Mayor,
shall fill such vacancy by appointment. A person so chosen or appointed shall
serve until the next regular municipal election occurring not less than one
hundred (100) days after his selection. At such election a successor shall be
elected to serve for the remainder of the unexpired term, if any; if not, for a
full term.
§ 4.08 SALARY OF COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   The Council may determine the annual salary of the members of Council by
ordinance, provided, however, that no change in the salary of a Council member
shall be effective during his current term of office, and provided further that
no change in salary shall be effective unless the ordinance establishing it
shall have been passed at least one hundred (100) days before a regular
municipal election. Members of Council shall receive their actual and necessary
expense incurred in the performance of their duties of office.
§ 4.09 ELECTION CONTESTS.
   The Council shall be the sole judge of the election and qualifications of
its own members and, for such purposes, shall have power by subpoena to compel
the attendance of witnesses and the production of ballots and records.
§ 4.10 RULES, JOURNAL.
    The Council shall adopt and may amend its own rules or procedure, in
conformity with the provisions of this Charter. It shall cause to be kept a
journal of its proceedings, which shall be a public record.
§ 4.11 GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   All powers of the Municipality shall be vested in the Council, except as
otherwise provided by law or this Charter, and the Council shall provide for
the exercise thereof and for the performance of all duties and obligations
imposed on the Municipality by law.
§ 4.12 INVESTIGATIONS.
   The Council may make investigations into the affairs of the Municipality and
the conduct of any Municipal department, office or agency and for this purpose
may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony and require the
production of evidence. The Council may provide penalties for the failure or
refusal of any person to obey a lawful order issued in the exercise of these
powers.
§ 4.13 INDEPENDENT AUDIT.
   During those years in which the State of Ohio shall make an audit of the
affairs of the municipality, such audit may be accepted as satisfying the
requirements of this section. In any other years, Council may, when it deems it
advisable, provide for an annual audit by a certified public accountant or firm
of such accountants.
(Amendment adopted by the electorate, 11-4-80)
§ 4.14 MEETINGS OF COUNCIL.
   The first Council meeting in January of each year shall be the
organizational meeting of Council. At such meeting the newly elected members of
Council shall take the oath of office and the Council shall proceed to elect a
Deputy-Major and may transact such other business as may come before it.
Thereafter, regular meetings shall be held as prescribed in the Council rules,
but not less frequently than twice each month. Special meetings may be held
upon the call of the Mayor or of four (4) or more members and, whenever
practicable, upon no less than twelve (12) hours notice to each member. All
meetings of Council where official business is consummated shall be open to the
public except as otherwise provided by the Ohio Statute or by Ordinance. A
majority of the members of Council shall constitute a quorum at all meetings.
(Amendment adopted by the electorate, 11-7-89)
§ 4.15 CLERK OF COUNCIL.
   There shall be a Clerk of Council, selected by vote of a majority of the
members of Council from outside its membership, to serve until his successor is
chosen and enters upon the duties of his office. He shall give notice of
Council meeting, keep the journal, advertise public hearings, record in a
separate book all ordinances and resolutions approved by Council and see that
such enactments are published as required by this Charter. He shall perform
such other duties as may be assigned to him by this Charter or by ordinance. He
may be appointed to serve full time or part time and the Council may assign the
duties of Clerk of Council to any employee of the Municipality as an additional
duty. The Clerk of Council shall receive a salary for his services as such, as
established by ordinance.
§ 4.16 COMMENCEMENT OF TERM.
   The terms of members of Council shall begin the first day of January after
their election. (Amendment adopted by the electorate, 11-4-80)
ARTICLE V. ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 5.01 ACTION REQUIRING AN ORDINANCE.
   In addition to other acts required by law or by specific provision of this
Charter to be done by ordinance, those acts of the Council shall be done by
ordinance which:
   (1)   Adopt or amend an administrative code or establish, alter or abolish
any Municipal department, office, agency, board or commission;
   (2)   Provide for a fine or other penalty or establish a rule or regulation
for violation of which a fine or other penalty is imposed;
   (3)   Levy taxes, except as otherwise provided in Article VIII with respect
to the property tax levied by adoption of the budget;
   (4)   Grant, renew or extend a franchise;
   (5)   Regulate the rate charged for its services by a public utility;
   (6)   Authorize the borrowing of money;
   (7)   Convey or lease or authorize the conveyance or lease of any lands of
the Municipality;
   (8)   Adopt with or without amendment ordinances proposed under the
initiative power; and
   (9)   Amend or repeal any ordinance previously adopted except as otherwise
provided in §5.06 hereof with respect to repeal of ordinances reconsidered
under the referendum power.
   Acts other than those referred to in the preceding sentence may be done
either by ordinance or resolution.
§ 5.02 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES.
   Every proposed ordinance shall be introduced in writing and in the form
required for final adoption. No ordinance shall contain more than one subject
which shall be clearly expressed in its title. The enacting clause shall be
“The Municipality of West Carrollton, Ohio, hereby ordains...” Any ordinance
which repeals or amends an existing ordinance or part of the Municipal Code
shall set out in full the ordinance, section or subsections to be repealed or
amended, or shall have copies of such ordinance, section or subsection attached
to such proposed ordinance and if necessary for further clarification, shall
indicate matter to be omitted by enclosing it in brackets or by strikeout type
or shall indicate new matter by underscoring or by italics.
   At least five (5) days prior to each regular meeting of Council, the Clerk
of Council shall post in five (5) most public places in the Municipality, as
determined by Council, an agenda of the forthcoming Council meeting with a
brief description of the ordinances to be considered at such meeting. All
person interested in such ordinances shall have the opportunity to be heard
thereon.
(Amendment adopted by the electorate, 11-4-80)
§ 5.03 PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES.
   No ordinance shall be passed without the concurrence of a majority of all
members of Council, except that emergency ordinances, as hereinafter provided,
shall require concurrence of at least five (5) members of Council for passage.
Every ordinance proposed for passage shall be available at the City Offices for
review by the general public on the day the ordinance is to be considered by
Council. Such ordinance shall thereafter be read by title only on two different
days, unless an emergency is declared as hereinafter provided, or unless by a
vote of at least five (5) members of Council, a reading thereof by title only
on two different days is dispensed with, in which case such ordinance may be
read by title only one time and passed on the day of such reading. Final
passage shall be certified by the signatures of the Mayor or Deputy Mayor and
Clerk of Council.
(Amendment adopted by the electorate, 11-4-80)
§ 5.04 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Ordinances providing for appropriations for current expenses of the
Municipality, or for public improvements petitioned for by the owners of a
majority of the foot frontage of property benefited and to be specially
assessed for the cost thereof, or for raising revenue, or ordinances wherein an
emergency is declared to exist, shall become effective immediately upon passage
or at such later date as may be provided therein, and such ordinance shall not
be subject to referendum. All other ordinances shall take effect thirty (30)
days after passage. An emergency ordinance as referred to herein is one which
must be passed and made effective at once or in less than thirty (30) days to
meet an emergency in the operation of the Municipal Government, or which is
necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety,
morals or welfare. An emergency ordinance must contain therein a separate
section setting forth the reason for the emergency.
   No ordinance granting a franchise or fixing a rate to be charged by a public
utility shall be passed as an emergency ordinance.
§ 5.05 PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   Within ten (10) days after passage, ordinances of a general nature, or
providing for public improvements shall be published one time, in summary form,
in any English newspaper of general circulation in the Municipality or by
posting copies thereof for at least fifteen (15) days in not less than five (5)
of the most public places within the Municipality, as determined by Council.
Such summary shall consist of a brief statement of the purpose and effect of
the ordinance. Copies of all ordinances shall be made available by the Clerk of
Council for public reference or of purchase at a reasonable price.
§ 5.06 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM.
   Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, ordinances may be proposed and
submitted to popular vote by initiative and referendum under the procedure set
forth in §§ 731.28 to 731.40 of the Ohio Revised Code. Whenever the Council is
required to pass more than one ordinance or resolution to complete the
legislation necessary to complete and pay for any public improvement, the
referendum shall apply only to the first ordinance or resolution to be passed
and not to any subsequent ordinance or resolution in the series relating
thereto.
§ 5.07 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt model or standard codes prepared and published by any
public or private agency on such matters as fire prevention, building
construction, electrical wiring, plumbing, heating, ventilating, air
conditioning or other similar topics by reference to the date and source of the
code without reproducing it at length in the ordinance. However, if Council
desires to modify, add to or eliminate from any such code any section or part
thereof, such addition, modification or omission shall be clearly stated in the
ordinance. In all such cases in which such code shall be adopted by reference,
publication of the code at length, by the Municipality, shall not be required.
However, at least one copy of all such codes, including all amendments thereto
shall be kept in the office of the Clerk of Council for consultation by
interested persons during regular office hours and additional copies shall
always be available for sale, at cost, by the Clerk of Council.
(Amendment adopted by the electorate, 11-4-80)
§ 5.08 RESOLUTIONS.
   Action by Council which is not required by this Charter to be taken by
ordinance, may be taken by resolution. Such a resolution shall be in writing
and shall be introduced by a member of the Council, and may be adopted by a
viva voce vote of a majority of a quorum. No waiting period, notice, hearing or
publication shall be required and a resolution shall become effective upon its
adoption. However, the Clerk of Council shall record resolutions in a separate
book, which shall be a public record.
ARTICLE VI. CITY MANAGER
§ 6.01 APPOINTMENT OF CITY MANAGER.
   The Council shall, by a majority vote of all members of Council, appoint and
fix the salary of an officer of the Municipality who shall have the title of
City Manager. The City Manager shall be chosen by the Council solely on the
basis of his executive and administrative qualifications in the profession of
city management, as judged by the adequacy of his technical training and/or his
successful experience in public administration. At the time of his appointment
he need not be a resident of the Municipality or State, but during his tenure
of office he shall reside in the Municipality. No Council member shall be
eligible for appointment as City Manager during the term for which he has been
elected or for one (1) year thereafter.
§ 6.02 DUTIES OF CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager shall be the chief executive and administrative officer of
the Municipality. He shall be responsible to the Council for the proper
administration of all affairs of the Municipality and, to that end, subject to
the provisions of this Charter, he shall have authority and shall be required
to:
   (1)   See that this Charter and the ordinances and resolutions of the
Municipality are faithfully observed and enforced;
   (2)   Appoint, and when necessary for the good of the service suspend or
remove all officers and employees of the Municipality, not selected or
appointed by the Council, in the manner provided in this Charter;
   (3)   Prepare the tax budget and the annual budget, submit them to the
council for approval, and administer the appropriations made by Council;
   (4)   Prepare and submit to Council and to the public, annually not later
than March 31, a complete report on the finances and administrative activities
of the Municipality for the preceding year; this report shall be deemed to
satisfy the requirements of the Ohio Revised Code without separate publication
of the financial statement;
   (5)   Keep the Council informed of the current financial condition and
future needs of the Municipality;
   (6)   Sign all contracts, bonds and notes on behalf of the Municipality;
   (7)   Attend all Council meetings and he shall have the right to take part
in discussions but may not vote;
   (8)   Appoint, with approval of Council, such citizen advisory committees as
seem to him desirable and discharge them when in his judgment their function
has been completely served;
   (9)   Delegate to subordinate officers and employees of the Municipality any
duties conferred upon him by this Charter or by action of Council, and hold
them responsible for the faithful discharge of such duties;
   (10) Serve as an ex-officio member, without the right to vote, of all Boards
and Commissions created by this Charter, by ordinance of Council, or by law;
   (11) Serve as the head of all public utilities owned and/or operated by the
Municipality;
   (12) Perform such other duties, not inconsistent with this Charter, as may
be required by the Council.
(Amendment adopted by the electorate, 11-7-95)
§ 6.03 ABSENCE OR DISABILITY OF THE CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager may designate, by letter filed with the Clerk of Council,
any qualified administrative officer of the Municipality to perform his duties
during his temporary absence or disability. If such designation has not been
made, and the City Manager is unable to perform his duties or to make such a
designation, the Council may, by resolution, appoint any qualified
administrative officer of the Municipality to perform the duties of the City
Manager until he shall return or his disability cease.
§ 6.04 REMOVAL OF THE CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager shall serve for an indefinite term, subject to removal by
the Council at any time by a majority vote of all the members of Council. At
least thirty (30) days before such removal shall become effective, the Council
shall adopt a preliminary resolution stating the reasons for the removal. The
City Manager may reply in writing and may request a public hearing, which shall
be held not earlier than twenty (20) days nor later than thirty (30) days after
the filing of the request, before the full Council. After such public hearing,
if one is requested, after full consideration, the Council may adopt a final
resolution of removal. By the preliminary resolution the Council may suspend
the City Manager from duty and designate an acting City Manager, but shall
cause to be paid to the City Manager forthwith any salary due him up to the
date of his suspension. Upon removal, unless for misconduct of the City Manager
involving moral turpitude, he shall be paid his salary for the period of
suspension from duty and for the next two (2) months following the removal. In
case of the voluntary resignation of the City Manager, the council and the City
Manager shall agree upon the effective date of the resignation.
§ 6.05 COUNCIL: RELATION TO CITY MANAGER.
   Except for the purpose of inquiry or investigation, members of Council shall
deal with the administrative employees of the Municipality, other than the Law
Director, solely through the City Manager. Except for the appointment or
removal of the Law Director, no member of Council shall take the initiative in
the appointment or removal of officers or employees subordinate to the City
Manager. Neither the Council nor any member or committee thereof shall give any
orders to a subordinate of the City Manager, other than the Law Director,
either publicly or privately. Any Council member who violates any of the
provisions of this section or votes for any ordinance or resolution in
violation thereof shall be guilty of malfeasance in office and upon conviction
thereof shall cease to be a Council member and shall be ineligible to hold
further office or employment in the Municipal government.
ARTICLE VII. ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS
§ 7.01 CREATION OF DEPARTMENTS.
   The administrative activities of the Municipality shall be carried on by a
Department of Finance, a Department of Law, a Department of Safety, a
Department of Service and such other departments as may be created by
ordinance, after consultation with the City Manager.
§ 7.02 DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   At the head of each department there shall be a full time or part time
director. The City Manager, with approval of Council, shall appoint the
directors of all departments, other than the Director of the Department of Law,
who shall be appointed by Council. Each director shall be an administrative
officer of the Municipality. He shall have supervision and control of the
department he heads subject to the direction of the City Manager, except the
Director of the Department of Law shall be subject to the direction of Council.
With the approval of Council, the City Manager may serve as the head of one (1)
or more such departments, except that he may not serve as Director of Finance,
or he may appoint one (1) person as the head of two (2) or more departments.
§ 7.03 ADMINISTRATIVE CODE.
   Subject to the provisions of this Charter and after consultation with the
City Manager, the Council shall adopt an administrative code which shall
provide in detail the organization of the Municipal government, define the
powers and duties of each organizational unit, and determine the administrative
procedures to be followed. The Council may delegate to the City Manager and he
to the heads of departments, other than the Director of the Department of Law,
power to make rules and regulations to govern management practices, consistent
with the administrative code. Amendments to and revisions of the administrative
code shall be made by the council only after consultation with the City
Manager. Where the administrative code is silent, the officers and employees of
the Municipality shall have and may exercise all powers and duties provided for
similar officers and employees by the state law. However, provisions of the
administrative code shall supersede those of the state law in case of conflict.
§ 7.04 DEPARTMENTAL DIVISIONS.
   The work of each department shall be distributed among such divisions
thereof as may be established by the administrative code. Pending the adoption
of such a code by the Council, the City Manager may establish temporary
divisions by administrative order, which shall be applicable to all departments
other than the Department of Law.
§ 7.05 CENTRAL PURCHASING.
   The Council shall establish a purchasing agency either as a separate office
or as a division of one of the departments created by this Charter, whose duty
it shall be to contract for, purchase, store and distribute all supplies,
printing, materials, equipment and contractual services required by any agency
of the Municipality, within the appropriations made by Council. The Council may
designate the City Manager as Purchasing Agent, but in any case the City
Manager shall be responsible for supervising the purchasing function.
§ 7.06 COMPETITIVE BIDDING.
   Purchase of all supplies, materials and equipment for the Municipality shall
be made pursuant to specifications through open competitive bidding under such
rules, consistent with this Charter as the Council may establish by ordinance.
In cases of public disaster, declared by resolution approved by at least five
(5) members of Council, purchases may be made in the open market without
competition.
§ 7.07 OVER-EXPENDITURES.
   No officer, department or agency of the Municipality shall expend or
contract to expend any money incur any liability, or enter into any contract
which by its terms involves the expenditure of money on behalf of the
Municipality of any purpose in excess of the amounts appropriated for such
expenditures and obligations. The officer or employee who knowingly attempts or
purports to create such an obligation shall be guilty of malfeasance in office
and upon conviction thereof shall be removed from office. However, nothing in
this section shall prevent the making of contracts not to be fully performed
within the fiscal year when specifically authorized by the Council.
§ 7.08 PERSONAL FINANCIAL INTEREST.
   Any Municipal officer or employee who has a substantial financial interest,
direct or indirect, or by reason of ownership of stock in any corporation, in
any contract with the Municipality or in the sale of any land, material,
supplies or services to the Municipality or to a contractor supplying the
Municipality shall make known that interest and shall refrain from voting upon
or otherwise participating in his capacity as a Municipal officer or employee
in the making of such sale or in the making or performance of such contract.
Any Municipal officer or employee who willfully conceals such a substantial
financial interest or willfully violates the requirements of his section shall
be guilty of malfeasance in office or position and shall forfeit his office or
position.
§ 7.09 ILLEGAL CONTRACTS VOIDABLE.
   Whenever any contract is found to be illegal, for the reasons stated in §§
7.07 or 7.08 and the Municipality has received the goods or property involved,
the Council may, by resolution, elect to rescind the contract, and return the
goods or property or retain them, paying for them not at the contract price,
but at their fair value, provided such value is not in excess of the contract
price. If payment has already been made, the Municipality shall be entitled to
recover the excess, if any, over the fair value.
§ 7.10 DEPARTMENT OF LAW - LAW DIRECTOR.
   The Law Director shall be the head of the Department of Law. He shall be
appointed by a majority vote of the Council, and shall serve at the pleasure of
the Council. The Law Director must be admitted to the practice of law in the
State of Ohio.
   The Law Director shall be the legal advisor, attorney, and counsel for the
Municipality, and for all other offices, departments, divisions, bureaus,
boards, commissions and bodies of the Municipality in connection with Municipal
affairs; and subject to the direction of Council, shall represent the
Municipality in all proceedings in Court or before any administrative board or
body. He shall perform such other duties consistent with his office, as may be
required by this Charter, by ordinance or resolution of the Council, or by the
laws of the State of Ohio, unless otherwise provided by ordinance of Council.
The Law Director shall be the prosecuting attorney on behalf of the
Municipality and shall prosecute cases brought before Courts of competent
jurisdiction.
   The Council may provide for such assistants and special Council to the Law
Director as shall be deemed advisable. All assistants shall be responsible to
the Law Director, and when authorized by him, may exercise all or any part of
the powers and duties granted to the Law Director under this section. Special
counsel may be selected by the Council or the Law Director, as determined by
the Council; and such special counsel may perform those powers and functions as
authorized by and in the manner provided by the Council.
(Amendment adopted by the electorate, 11-4-80)
§ 7.11 DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE.
   The Department of Finance shall perform those functions customarily
performed by the auditor and the treasurer under the state law. The Director of
Finance shall be the fiscal officer of the Municipality and shall be
responsible for accounting, collection and custody of public funds, and control
over disbursements. He shall advise the City Manager and the Council concerning
the financial condition of the Municipality and shall examine all payrolls,
bills and other claims against the Municipality and shall issue no warrants
unless he finds that the claim is in proper form, correctly computed, duly
approved and that an appropriation has been made therefor. He shall countersign
all bonds and notes issued by the Municipality and shall perform such other
functions as may be assigned by ordinance or by order of the City Manager.
§ 7.12 DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY.
   The Department of Safety shall have and perform such functions as may be
assigned by ordinance or by order of the City Manager. Notwithstanding any
provisions of state law, the Council may establish unified police and fire
service in which both types of service are rendered by the same personnel.
§ 7.13 CREATION OF NEW DEPARTMENTS.
   The Council, by ordinance, may create, change and abolish offices,
departments and agencies, other than those established by this Charter. The
Council may assign additional duties to the departments established by this
Charter, but may not discontinue or assign to any other office, department or
agency any function assigned by this Charter to a particular office, department
or agency.
ARTICLE VIII. FINANCE, TAXATION, AND DEBT
§ 8.01 DEBT SERVICE LEVY.
   The Council may annually levy taxes on property assessed and listed for
taxation, outside any limitation imposed by the Constitution of Ohio or by any
act of the legislature, a sum sufficient to pay all or any part of the
principal of and interest on any bonds and notes constituting general
obligations of the Municipality, which are now outstanding or hereafter
lawfully issued, including the expenses incident to the management of the bond
retirement fund, which levy shall be placed before and in preference to all
other levies.
§ 8.02 OPERATING LEVY.
   The Council shall annually levy a tax for current operating expenses on the
property assessed and listed for taxation for the purposes of the Municipality
of West Carrollton, its boards, departments and institutions. The rate of such
tax shall not exceed 6.25 mills on the dollar of the assessed valuation of
which amount four (4) mills may be levied beyond the Constitutional tax
limitation.
§ 8.03 OTHER TAX LEVIES.
   The limitation of this Charter upon the power of Council to levy taxes shall
not operate as a limitation upon the power of Council to levy taxes upon such
other subjects and for such other purposes as may be lawful under the
Constitution and laws of the State of Ohio, nor shall the authority of Council
to submit additional levies on property assessed and listed for taxation
according to value to a vote of the people under the authority of the
Constitution or laws of the State of Ohio be deemed impaired or abridged by
reason of any provision of this Charter.
§ 8.04 PROCEDURE IN BOND ISSUES - DEBT LIMITATIONS.
   The procedure to be followed in authorizing and issuing bonds and notes of
the Municipality and applying the proceeds therefrom, shall be in accordance
with the provisions of the general laws of the State of Ohio in affect at the
time, except as expressly modified by other sections of this Charter. The
limitations on the indebtedness of the Municipality evidenced by its notes or
bonds and incurred with or without a vote of the people, shall be those imposed
by the general law of the state in effect at the time of issuance.
§ 8.05 GENERAL.
   The laws of the State of Ohio relating generally to budgets, appropriations,
investment and deposit of funds, and other fiscal matters of the Municipality
shall be applicable to the Municipality, except as modified by or necessarily
inconsistent with the provisions of this Charter or ordinances of Council
enacted pursuant thereto and except when provision therefor is made in the
Constitution of the State of Ohio.
§ 8.06 FISCAL YEAR.
   The Fiscal, budget and accounting year of the Municipality shall be the
calendar year from January 1 to December 31.
ARTICLE IX. BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 9.01 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   There shall be a Municipal Planning Commission consisting of five (5)
members all of whom shall be residents of the Municipality who hold no other
Municipal office or employment, selected by the Council for overlapping terms
of five (5) years, except that the members first selected shall be appointed
for such terms that the term of one member shall expire annually thereafter.
   The Commission shall adopt its own rules and elect its own officers
annually. It shall have all the power and authority conferred upon city
planning commissions by state law and such other duties as may be imposed upon
it by the administrative code. Its members shall serve without compensation.
(Amendment adopted by the electorate, 11-7-95)
§ 9.02 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   The Planning Commission shall adopt and recommend to the Council a
comprehensive general plan for the physical development of the Municipality,
which shall include the location of public ways, property, bridges, utilities,
buildings, parks, playgrounds and recreation areas. The comprehensive general
plan shall show all existing school locations in the Municipality and shall
show the proposed location of new schools as determined by the Board of
Education.
§ 9.03 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   There shall be a Board of Zoning Appeals consisting of five (5) members who
shall be residents of the Municipality who hold no other Municipal office or
employment, selected by the Council for overlapping terms of five (5) years,
except that the members first selected shall be appointed for such terms that
the term of one member shall expire annually thereafter. The Board shall adopt
its own rules and elect its own officers annually. It shall have all the power
and authority conferred upon Boards of Zoning Appeals by state law and such
other duties as may be imposed upon it by ordinance. Its members shall serve
without compensation.
§ 9.04 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS OF PLANNING COMMISSION AND BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   By concurrence of four (4) or more of its members, Council shall have the
power to remove members of the Planning Commission or Board of Zoning Appeals
for just cause upon public hearing. The decision of the Council in removing a
member of such Commission or Board pursuant to this section shall be final.
§ 9.05 RECREATION BOARD.
   There shall be a Municipal Recreation Board consisting of five (5) members,
all of whom shall be residents of the Municipality and hold no other municipal
office or employment. Two of such members shall be members of the Board of
Education of the School District, or members appointed by such Board, and three
of whom shall be selected by Council. All members of the Board shall serve for
terms of five (5) years, except that the members of such Board first appointed
shall be appointed for such terms that the term of one member shall expire
annually thereafter. The Board shall adopt its own rules and elect its officers
annually. It shall have such power, authority and duties as may be imposed upon
it by ordinance or by state law but in case of conflict or inconsistency
between the two the provisions of the ordinances shall take precedence. Its
members shall serve without compensation.
(Amendment adopted by the electorate, 11-4-80)
§ 9.06 CREATION OF NEW BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
   The Council by ordinance may create, change and abolish boards and
commissions, other than those established by this Charter. The Council may
assign additional duties to the boards and commissions established by this
Charter, but may not discontinue or assign to any other board or commission any
function assigned by this Charter to a particular board or commission.
ARTICLE X. PERSONNEL
§ 10.01 MERIT SYSTEM ESTABLISHED.
   Appointments and promotions in the civil service of the Municipality shall
be made solely on the basis of merit and fitness demonstrated, wherever
practical, by open competitive examinations or other evidence of competence.
Except as herein otherwise provided, the council shall enact ordinances to
prescribe and enforce rules for appointment, promotion, transfer, layoff,
reinstatement, suspension and removal of employees in the Civil Service of the
Municipality. Such ordinances shall prevail over conflicting state law. The
City Manager shall have the authority to determine if it is in the best
interests of the City to leave a position vacant, or to combine the duties of
two positions under a single employee. (Amendment adopted by the electorate,
11-4-80; Amendment adopted by the electorate, 11-7-95)
§ 10.02 EXEMPT POSITIONS.
   The civil service shall include all positions in the Municipality except:
   (1)   Members of Council;
   (2)   The Clerk of Council;
   (3)   The City Manager;
   (4)   The Directors of Departments;
   (5)   The Secretary to the City Manager;
   (6)   The Assistant to the City Manager;
   (7)   Members of Boards and Commissions appointed by Council, advisory
committees appointed by the City Manager;
   (8)   Those positions requiring peculiar and exceptional qualifications of a
scientific, managerial, professional or educational character;
   (9)   Unskilled laborers;
   (10)   Seasonal, provisional, temporary or part time employees.
   In addition to the above, other positions may be exempted from the civil
service and/or the competitive examination requirements upon the determination
of the City Manager and the approval of the Personnel Appeals Board.
(Amendment adopted by the electorate, 11-4-80; Amendment adopted by the
electorate, 11-7-95)
§ 10.03 PERSONNEL OFFICER.
   The City Manager shall appoint a suitably qualified person to serve part or
full time as Personnel Officer. He shall:
   (1)   Conduct recruitment of qualified persons;
   (2)   Prepare, schedule and hold examinations;
   (3)   Create eligible lists from results of examinations;
   (4)   Certify eligibles to appointing officers;
   (5)   Classify positions and establish job specifications;
   (6)   Certify payrolls;
   (7)   Develop and conduct training programs;
   (8)   Prepare and recommend to the City Manager for approval and
publication, necessary rules to establish and maintain the merit system in the
Municipality;
   (9)   Perform such other duties relating to personnel as the City Manager
may direct.
§ 10.04 PERSONNEL APPEALS BOARD.
   There shall be a Personnel Appeals Board consisting of three (3) members who
shall be selected by the Council for overlapping terms of three (3) years,
except that the members first selected shall be appointed for such terms that
the term of one member shall expire annually thereafter. Each member of the
Board shall be a qualified elector of the Municipality, known to be in sympathy
with the merit principle as applied to the civil service, shall neither hold
nor be a candidate for any public office or employment and shall not be a
member of any local, state or national committee of a political party or an
officer in any partisan political club or organization. Its members shall serve
without compensation.
§ 10.05 DUTIES OF PERSONNEL APPEALS BOARD.
   The Personnel Appeals Board shall hear appeals upon request of any officer
or employee when such officer or employee of the civil service has been
suspended in excess of three (3) days, reduced in rank or removed from his/her
position. The Board shall make its own rules, choose its own officers, and have
authority to subpoena witnesses and to require the production of records.
(Amendment adopted by the electorate, 11-4-80)
§ 10.06 ASSESSMENTS AND CONTRIBUTIONS.
   No person shall orally, by letter or otherwise solicit or assist in
soliciting any assessment, subscription, or contribution for any political
party or political purpose in a Municipal election from any person holding any
compensated appointive Municipal position.
   No person who holds any compensated appointive Municipal position shall
make, solicit, or receive any contribution to candidates for Municipal office
or Municipal office holders running for another office, or take any part in the
management, affairs, or political campaign of any political party in a
Municipal election, but such person may exercise rights as a citizen to express
opinions and vote.
(Amended 11-3-15.)
§ 10.07 PENALTIES.
   Any person who violates the provisions of § 10.06 of this Charter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, if an office or employee of the Municipality
be guilty of malfeasance in office and upon conviction shall be removed from
the office or position he holds and shall be ineligible for election or
appointment to any position in the Municipal service for a period of five (5)
years.
§ 10.08 PROMOTIONAL EXAMINATIONS.
   Whenever a vacancy occurs in any position in the service of the Municipality
which is not exempted under the provisions of § 10.02 of this Charter it shall
be filled in the manner provided in the personnel ordinance. Promotional
examinations may be restricted to present employees, or if recommended by the
City Manager, they may be opened to qualified candidates from outside the
Municipal service, by resolution of the Council. The names of the three (3)
eligibles standing highest on the promotional eligible list shall be certified
to the appointing authority and he shall appoint one (1) of the three (3) so
certified, as may be provided by ordinance.
ARTICLE XI. NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS
§ 11.01 NOMINATIONS.
   There shall be no primary election for municipal offices. Nominations for
the office of Mayor or Councilmember shall be made by petition only, on the
standard forms provided by the Board of Elections of Montgomery County for the
nomination of non-partisan candidates for such office in the odd numbered years
in which they are to be elected. Each candidate for Mayor or Councilmember
shall file a petition containing no less than fifty (50) signatures of
qualified electors of the Municipality. Group petitions shall not be used for
individual offices. Petitions shall be filed with the Board of Elections by 4:
00 p.m. at least ninety (90) days before the election. The procedure
established by the Ohio election laws for filing and voting shall be followed,
except as modified by this Charter. An elector may sign only as many petitons
for Mayor or Councilmember as there are places to be filled at the regular
Municipal election.
(Amended by Ord. 1860, approved at election 11-5-74; Amendment adopted by the
electorate, 11-7-95)
§ 11.02 REGULAR MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
   The regular Municipal election for Mayor and Councilmen shall be held on the
first Tuesday after the first Monday in November in the odd numbered years in
which they are to be elected, commencing in the year 1969. The procedure
established by the Ohio election laws for the conduct of Municipal elections
shall be followed, except as modified by this Charter.
§ 11.03 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   The Council may, at any time, by ordinance or resolution, order a special
election, the purpose of which shall be set forth in the ordinance or
resolution.
§ 11.04 CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS.
   Non-partisan ballots shall be used for all Municipal offices. All regular
and special Municipal elections shall be conducted by the Board of Elections of
Montgomery County under the provisions of this Charter, so far as they are
applicable. Where the Charter is silent, the provisions of the Ohio election
laws shall be followed.
(Amendment adopted by the electorate, 11-7-95)
ARTICLE XII. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 12.01 OATH OF OFFICE.
   Every officer and employee of the Municipality shall, before entering upon
his duties, take and subscribe to the following oath or affirmation to be filed
and kept in the office of the Clerk of Council:
   “I solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support the Constitution of the
United States and the State of Ohio and will obey the laws thereof, and that I
will, in all respects, uphold and enforce the provisions of the Charter and
ordinances of this Municipality and will faithfully discharge the duties of
upon which I am about to enter.”
§ 12.02 OFFICIAL BONDS.
   All offices and employees of the Municipality whose duties require that they
handle or be concerned with the management of its money or other property, and
any other employee required by Council to furnish a bond, shall furnish to the
Clerk of Council before entering upon their duties, a corporate surety bond,
issued by a company authorized to do business in Ohio, to protect the
Municipality against loss due to their acts or omissions. The amount of such
bond shall, in each case, be fixed by the Council. The premium on such bonds
shall be paid from the funds of the Municipality.
§ 12.03 FEES.
   All fees received by any officer or employee of the Municipality in
connection with his employment with the Municipality shall be accounted for and
paid into the Municipal treasury, except as otherwise provided by law.
§ 12.04 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   Whenever in this Charter certain acts on the part of Municipal officials or
employees are described as constituting malfeasance in office, the procedure
for complaint, trial and judgment thereon shall be that prescribed in §§ 733.72
to 733.77 of the Ohio Revised Code.
§ 12.05 ENFORCEMENT OF SUBPOENAS.
   Whenever in this Charter the Council or any other agency of the Municipal
government is given authority to issue subpoenas or to require attendance of
witnesses or the production of books, ballots,
papers and records, the same shall be issued and enforced in the manner
provided in § 705.21 of the Ohio Revised Code.
§ 12.06 AMENDMENTS TO CHARTER.
   Any provision of this Charter may be amended as provided in Article XVIII, §
9 of the Ohio Constitution, by submission of a proposed amendment to the voters
of the Municipality and approved by a majority of those voting on the question
of its adoption. Such amendment may be initiated either by a vote of at least
five (5) members of Council, or by petition to the Council signed by ten (10)
percent of the electors.
   The Council shall no later than every five (5) years appoint a Charter
Review Commission, commencing in the year 1985, and every five years
thereafter, to review the Charter of the City of West Carrollton and if such
Commission finds changes in the Charter may be necessary, to make
recommendations for such changes to the Council to be placed upon the ballot
for approval by a majority of the electors of the city. (Amendment adopted by
the electorate, 11-4-80)
§ 12.07 EFFECT OF PARTIAL INVALIDITY.
   A determination that any article, section, or part of any article or
section, of this Charter is invalid shall not invalidate or impair the force or
effect of any other part thereof, except to the extent that such other part
thereof, is wholly dependent for its operation upon the part declared invalid.
§ 12.08 PUBLICATION.
   Whenever publication of an ordinance, resolution, notice or other official
document is required by the provisions of this Charter or by any ordinance
passed thereunder, it shall be sufficient compliance with such requirement if
the publication is made as provided in § 5.05 of this Charter. As an
alternative, the Municipality may publish and distribute an official Municipal
bulletin to the residences in the Municipality, containing such official
notices and general reports concerning Municipal affairs. Such official
bulletin may be reproduced by letterpress, offset or any other suitable method
and the cost of its reproduction and distribution shall be paid from public
funds. Whenever the Council so determines, official notice may also be given by
radio or television news services.
§ 12.09 INCORPORATION OF GENERAL LAW.
   Whenever reference is made in this Charter to sections of the Ohio Revised
Code as governing organization or procedure of Municipal officials or agencies,
it is declared to be the intention of the voters in approving this Charter that
if such sections should be amended in the future by the Ohio General Assembly,
such amendments shall be incorporated into this Charter also, unless the people
amend the Charter to provide a different organization or procedure from that
established by state law. If a section referred to in this Charter is repealed,
the Council, may by ordinance, establish the rule to be followed.
ARTICLE XIII. TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
§ 13.01 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   For the purpose of nominating and electing the elective officers of the
Municipality of West Carrollton, this Charter shall take effect on the first
day of January, 1969. For all other purposes, this Charter shall take effect
from the time of its approval by the electors of the Municipality.
§ 13.02 SUCCESSION.
   The Municipality of West Carrollton, under this Charter, is hereby declared
to be the legal successor of the Municipality of West Carrollton, under the
laws of the State of Ohio, and as such it has title to all property, real,
personal and mixed, owned by its predecessor, including all moneys on deposit
and all taxes in process of collection together with all accounts receivable
and rights of action. The Municipality is also liable for all outstanding
orders, contracts and debts of its predecessor, and for any other obligations
for which it may be held liable as such successor, by any Court of competent
jurisdiction.
§ 13.03 CONTINUATION OF COUNCIL.
   Councilmen and the Mayor in office when this Charter becomes effective shall
continue in office until the end of the terms for which they were elected when
successors shall be chosen for full terms under the provisions of this Charter.
§ 13.04 CONTINUATION OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances, resolutions and other acts of the Village of West
Carrollton, in effect at the time this Charter becomes effective, shall remain
in effect, except as superseded by the provisions of this Charter, until they
are amended or repealed.
§ 13.05 CONTINUATION OF OFFICERS.
   All persons holding office at the time this Charter takes effect shall
continue in office (except as specifically provided otherwise in this Charter)
until provision shall have been made, in conformity with this Charter, for the
performance of their duties by a successor, or the office is abolished.
§ 13.06 CONTINUATION OF EMPLOYEES.
   Every employee of the Municipality when this Charter takes effect shall be
retained in his employment with the same status, rights and privileges as
before, but shall thereafter be subject in all respects to the provisions of
this Charter.
§ 13.07 TRANSFER OF RECORDS AND PROPERTY.
   All public records and property in the custody of officers and employees of
the Municipality at the time this Charter becomes effective shall be
transferred and delivered promptly to their successors.
§ 13.08 CONTINUATION OF CONTRACTS AND IMPROVEMENTS.
   All Contracts entered into by the Municipality or for its benefit, prior to
the taking effect of this Charter shall remain in full force and effect. Public
improvements for which legislative steps have been taken under laws existing at
the time this Charter takes effect, shall be completed, as nearly as
practicable, under the provisions of such laws.
§ 13.09 PENDING ACTIONS AND PROCEEDINGS.
   No action or proceeding, civil or criminal, pending in any Court at the time
this Charter takes effect, brought by or against the Municipality or any
office, agency or officer thereof, shall be abated or affected by anything
herein contained, but all such actions shall be prosecuted or defended under
the laws in effect when they are filed.
§ 13.10 TRANSFER OF FINANCE FUNCTIONS.
   The functions performed by the Clerk-Treasurer under the optional law shall
be transferred under this Charter to the Department of Finance on June 1, 1967,
and the office of Clerk-Treasurer shall be abolished as an independent office
as of that date.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
   
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
10.01   Short titles
10.02   Definitions
10.03   Rules of construction
10.04   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
10.05   Construction of section references
10.06   Conflicting provisions
10.07   Severability
10.08   Fee when check not honored by bank
10.09   Emergency powers of Mayor
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the Municipality
as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Codified Ordinances of West Carrollton, Ohio, 1977, for which designation
“codified ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code, title, chapter, and
section headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the
Codified Ordinances. (R.C. § 1.01)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the Codified Ordinances unless otherwise specified. Any component
code may be referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code”.
Sections may be referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the
number, such as “§
10.01”. ('70 Code, § 101.01)
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this code the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   AND / OR. The word “and” may be read as “or”, and the word “or” may be read
as “and”, if the sense requires it.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOND. Includes an undertaking.
   CERTIFIED MAIL. Includes registered mail.
   CHILD. Includes child by adoption.
   COUNCIL. The Legislative Authority of the municipality.
   COUNTY. The county or counties in which the municipality is located.
   FIRE CHIEF. Shall include the Chief of the Fire Department if a Fire
Department has been established in the municipality, and shall include the Fire
Prevention Officer if no Fire Department has been established in the
municipality.
   IMPRISONED. Shall have the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.05.
   INTERNET. The international computer network of both federal and non-federal
interoperable packet switched data networks, including the graphical subnetwork
known as the World Wide Web.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of incorporeal nature.
   LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY. The Legislative Authority of the municipality.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   MUNICIPALITY, CITY, TOWN, VILLAGE or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. When used in
this code, shall denote the municipality irrespective of its population or
legal classification.
   O.A.C. Refers to the Ohio Administrative Code.
   OATH. Includes affirmation.
   OF UNSOUND MIND. The person lacks the relevant mental capacity.
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner or
tenant in common of the whole or part of that property.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real property.
   PLAN OF SEWERAGE, SYSTEM OF SEWERAGE, SEWER, and SEWERS. Includes sewers,
sewage disposal works and treatment plants, and sewage pumping stations,
together with facilities and appurtenances necessary and proper therefor.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county, state
or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   R.C. Refers to the Ohio Revised Code.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Ohio.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the municipality.
   SWEAR. Includes affirm.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   UNDERTAKING. Includes a bond.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITING. Includes printing.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. The terms include any representation of words,
letters, symbols or figures; this provision does not affect any law relating to
signatures.
   YEAR. Twelve consecutive months.
(R.C. §§ 1.02, 1.05, 1.44, 1.59, 701.01)
('70 Code, § 101.02)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A) Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative definition or
otherwise, shall be construed accordingly. (R.C. § 1.42)
   (B)   As used in the code, unless the context otherwise required:
      (1)   Tense. Words in the present tense include the future.
      (2)   Gender. Words of one gender include the other genders.
      (3)   Plural. The singular includes the plural and the plural includes
the singular.
   (C)   Calendar: computation of time.
      (1)   The time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; except that when
the last day falls on Sunday or a legal holiday, then the act may be done on
the next succeeding day which is not a Sunday or a legal holiday.
      (2)   When a public office, in which an act required by law is to be
performed, is closed to the public for the entire day which constitutes the
last day for doing such act or before its usual closing time on such day, then
such act may be performed on the next succeeding day which is not a Sunday or a
legal holiday. (R.C. § 1.14)
      (3)   When an act is to take effect or become operative from and after a
day named, no part of that day shall be included. (R.C. § 1.15)
      (4)   In all cases where the law shall require any act to be done in a
reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or
notice shall mean such time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance
of such duty or compliance with such notice.
   (D)   Authority. When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as
well be done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be
construed to include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Joint authority. All words purporting to give joint authority to 3 or
more municipal officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such
authority to a majority of such officers or other persons, unless it shall be
otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority or inconsistent
with state statute or Charter provisions.
   (F)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
shall contain any express provision excluding such construction, or when the
subject matter or context of such law may be repugnant thereto.
('70 Code, § 101.03)
§ 10.04 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing statute does not revive the statute
originally repealed nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein. (R.C. §
1.57)
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment, or repeal of a statute does not, except as
provided in division (C) of this section:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the statute or any prior action taken
thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation, or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded, or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal;
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding, or remedy in respect of any
such privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment; and
the investigation, proceeding, or remedy may be instituted, continued, or
enforced, and the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment imposed, as if the statute
had not been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for any offense is reduced
by a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the statute
as amended. (R.C. § 1.58) ('70 Code, § 101.04)
§ 10.05 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in such
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code. (R.C. §
1.23) ('70 Code, § 101.05)
§ 10.06 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the Codified
Ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole. ('70 Code, § 101.06)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable. (R.C. § 1.50) ('70
Code, § 101.07)
§ 10.08 FEE WHEN CHECK NOT HONORED BY BANK.
   The city shall assess a handling charge as set forth in Section
37.01 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton to any person, corporation, association, or other
entity for any check submitted to the city which is not honored by the bank for
any reason and the account for which such check was submitted for payment will
revert to the same status as though no payment was received.
(Ord. 3436. Passed 12-22-09)
§ 10.09 EMERGENCY POWERS OF MAYOR.
   (A)   The Mayor may, in times of public emergency or when existing
circumstances or the state of facts present imminent and substantial danger of
bodily harm to large numbers of people and/or widespread destruction of
property, such as, but not limited to, natural disorders caused by an act of
God, explosions, fires, tumult, diffusing explosive vapors, diffusing dangerous
chemicals or liquids, civil emergency, power failures or aircraft accidents,
proclaim in writing a state of emergency. Coincident with the proclamation, the
Mayor shall issue notice of a special meeting of Council to be held within 12
hours of the time of the proclamation.
   (B)   As a part of such proclamation or by subsequent written order after
such proclamation is issued, the Mayor may, in his/her discretion as he/she
deems necessary to the public safety:
      (1)   Delineate the boundaries of any area threatened by an emergency
condition and restrict or prohibit persons from entering such area except when
carrying on necessary and legitimate pursuits, and control and regulate
movement within and from such area;
      (2)   Establish a curfew within such area under regulations set by the
Mayor or Council and prohibit persons from being out of doors during such
curfew; and
      (3)   Prohibit the sale, offering for sale, dispensing, and regulate or
control the transportation of firearms and other deadly weapons, ammunition,
dynamite and other dangerous explosives, incendiary devices and any necessary
ingredient thereof.
   (C)   When the danger has passed, the Mayor or Council shall forthwith make
a proclamation that the emergency has ended and any proclamation, order or
regulation issued pursuant to this section shall then become void.
   (D)   The powers conferred by this section are in addition to any other
power which may be conferred by law and nothing in this section shall be
construed to modify or limit such authority, powers, duties and
responsibilities of any officer or public official as may be provided by law.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit suspension of the
privilege to a writ of habeas corpus.
   (E)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of, or knowingly fails to
perform any duty required by a proclamation, order or regulation issued and in
effect pursuant to this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(Ord. 2788, passed 2-26-91)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whenever, in the codified ordinances or in any ordinance of the
municipality, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an
offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the
failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is
otherwise provided, whoever violates any such provision shall be punished by a
fine, which fine shall be set forth in Section
37.02 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton. A separate offense shall be deemed committed in each
day during or on which a continuing violation occurs. (Ord. 3436, passed 12-22-
09)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
   
30.   ADMINISTRATION GENERALLY
   
31.   LEGISLATIVE
   
32.   CITY MANAGER; PURCHASING; INVESTMENTS
   
33.   DEPARTMENTS; BOARDS; AND COMMISSIONS
   
34.   EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
   
35.   PUBLIC RECORDS POLICY
   
36.   COUNCIL RULES AND PROCEDURES
   
37.   GENERAL FEE SCHEDULE
   
38.   GENERAL FEE SCHEDULE (REPEALED)
   
39.   IDENTITY THEFT POLICY
CHAPTER 30: ADMINISTRATION GENERALLY
Section
30.01   Conformity with Charter
30.02   Applicability of prior ordinances
30.03   Departmental organization
30.04   Officers
30.05   Department heads
30.06   Acting department heads
30.07   Assistants to department heads
§ 30.01 CONFORMITY WITH CHARTER.
   This title shall implement the city Charter, and the provisions hereof shall
be so construed. Should any provision of this title be found to be in conflict
with the Charter, the Charter provisions shall control. Any conflict of any
provision of this title shall render only the conflicting provision hereof
invalid, and all other provisions not in conflict with the Charter shall remain
in force and effect. Should any provision of this title be susceptible to 2
interpretations, one of which is in conflict with the Charter and the other of
which is in conformity with the Charter, the provision shall be given that
interpretation conforming to the Charter. ('70 Code, § 105.01; amend. Ord.
2291, passed 10-27-81)
§ 30.02 APPLICABILITY OF PRIOR ORDINANCES.
   Existing ordinances of the city in conflict with the Charter and with this
title are hereby repealed. To the extent that if this title does not make
provision for any matter required by the Charter to be provided by ordinance,
the provisions of existing ordinances on the matters shall remain in effect and
be deemed to be a part of this title. ('70 Code, § 105.02; amend. Ord. 2291,
passed 10-27-81)
§ 30.03 DEPARTMENTAL ORGANIZATION.
   The administrative service of the city shall be divided into the following
departments with the following heads thereof:
Departments   Department Head   Responsible to
Department of Finance   Finance Director   City Manager
Department of Law   Law Director   Council
Department of Safety   Safety Director   City Manager
Department of Service   Service Director   City Manager
Department of Personnel   Personnel Director   City Manager
Department of Parks and Recreation   Parks and Recreation Director   City
Manager
Department of Planning and Community Development   Planning and Community
Development Director   City Manager
('70 Code, § 105.03; amend. Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81)
§ 30.04 OFFICERS.
   Each officer shall perform all duties required of his office by the Charter,
by law and by this title and other ordinances of the city, and he shall perform
the other duties not in conflict therewith as may be assigned by the City
Manager. ('70 Code, § 105.04; amend. Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81)
§ 30.05 DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   The heads of departments, with the exception of the Law Director, shall:
   (A)   Be immediately responsible to the City Manager for the effective
administration of their departments and all activities assigned thereto.
   (B)   Keep informed as to the latest practices in their particular field and
shall inaugurate, with the approval of the City Manager, any new practices as
appear to be of benefit to the service and to the public.
   (C)   Be responsible for the performance of their departments and the duties
assigned to it by the Charter, by law, by this title, and by the City Manager.
   (D)   Submit reports of the activities of their departments when requested
by the City Manager.
   (E)   Establish and maintain a system of records and reports in sufficient
detail to furnish all information necessary for proper control of departmental
activities and to form a basis for the reports required by the City Manager.
   (F)   Be responsible for the proper custody and maintenance of all city
property and equipment used in their departments. (amend. Ord. 2291, passed 10-
27-81)
§ 30.06 ACTING DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   Whenever for any reason a department head, except the Law Director, is
unable to perform his duties, the City Manager may name a substitute or assume
the duties himself, until the disability is removed or the position becomes
vacant. With the approval of Council, the City Manager may serve as the head of
1 or more departments, except that he may not serve as Director of Finance, or
he may appoint one person as the head of 2 or more departments.
('70 Code, § 105.06; amend. Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81)
§ 30.07 ASSISTANTS TO DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   Whenever for any reason the City Manager deems it necessary to provide
either temporary or permanent assistants for any department head, except the
Law Director, the City Manager shall authorize the employment of the same
within existing or amended appropriations. ('70 Code, § 105.07; amend. Ord.
2291, passed 10-27-81)
CHAPTER 31: LEGISLATIVE
Section
Council
31.01   Clerk of Council
31.02   Annual independent audit
Ordinances and Resolutions
31.05   Posting places designated (Repealed)
31.06   Posting by Council Clerk; certification
31.07   Application of legislation to city property outside the corporate
limits
COUNCIL
§ 31.01 CLERK OF COUNCIL.
   The Clerk of Council shall perform any duties as are required of him by the
city Charter and Council. ('70 Code, § 121.01; amend. Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-
81)
§ 31.02 ANNUAL INDEPENDENT AUDIT.
   The Council shall annually provide for an independent audit as provided for
in § 4.13 of the city Charter. The audit shall be to:
   (A)   Verify receipts from various departments and all other sources with
fund ledger sheets and bank statement.
   (B)   Verify fund balances with bank statement.
   (C)   Verify total appropriation expenditures with fund expenditures.
   (D)   Perform such other audit duties as Council may direct. ('70 Code, §
121.02; amend. Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81)
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 31.05 POSTING PLACES DESIGNATED.
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Former Section
 31.05 was repealed by Ordinance 3194, passed December 11, 2001.)
§ 31.06 POSTING BY COUNCIL CLERK; CERTIFICATION.
   All matters posted shall be for the period required by law, and shall be
done by the Council Clerk, who shall make the proper certificate of posting
upon the completion thereof. ('70 Code, § 123.02)
§ 31.07 APPLICATION OF LEGISLATION TO CITY PROPERTY OUTSIDE THE CORPORATE
LIMITS.
   Pursuant to R.C. § 715.50, it is hereby ordained by Council that all real
and personal property owned by the city located without the municipal
corporation limits is hereby subject to the provisions of all city police and
sanitary regulations and ordinances. Any person, firm or corporation coming in
or upon any municipally owned property lying outside the corporate limits of
the city, shall be subject to the penalties and provisions as provided in the
regulations and ordinances. ('70 Code, § 123.03)
CHAPTER 32: CITY MANAGER; PURCHASING; INVESTMENTS
Section
City Manager
32.01   Check vouchers
32.02   Bond
32.03   Authority to prescribe rules and regulations
32.04   Transfer of personnel
32.05   Transfer of work among departments
32.06   Assistant to the City Manager
32.07   Authority to sell real estate owned by city
Purchasing
32.10   Purchasing agent
32.11   Formal bidding
32.12   Opening and tabulation of bids; award of contracts
32.125   Joint purchases
32.13   Purchase orders
32.14   Inspection
32.15   Purchase of surplus commodities
Investment and Deposit Policy
32.25   Purpose
32.26   Adoption of policy
32.27   Objectives and guidelines
32.28   Fund depositories
32.29   Authorized financial institutions and dealers
32.30   Authorized and suitable investments
32.31   Collateralization of competitively bid interest bearing time
certificates of deposit, repurchase agreements and now accounts
32.32   Safekeeping and custody
32.33   Diversification
32.34   Maximum maturities
32.35   Competitive bidding
32.36   Liability
32.37   Ethics and conflict of interest
32.38   Reporting
32.39   Pooling of funds
CITY MANAGER
§ 32.01 CHECK VOUCHERS.
   All check vouchers shall be approved and signed by the City Manager or
Acting City Manager. ('70 Code, § 131.01; amend. Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81)
§ 32.02 BOND.
   The City Manager shall furnish bond, as required by the Charter, in the
amount of $25,000, the premium for which shall be paid by the city. The bond
shall be for the protection of the city and the public against loss due to acts
of omissions of the City Manager. ('70 Code, § 131.02; amend. Ord. 2291, passed
10-27-81)
§ 32.03 AUTHORITY TO PRESCRIBE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Manager may prescribe the general rules and regulations as he may
deem necessary or expedient for the general conduct of the administrative
departments, other than the department of law. The head of each department
shall in like manner prescribe the rules and regulations as he may deem
necessary and expedient for the proper conduct of his department, not
inconsistent with rules and regulations prescribed by the City Manager. ('70
Code, § 131.03; amend. Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81)
§ 32.04 TRANSFER OF PERSONNEL.
   The City Manager may temporarily transfer employees from one department to
another department in order to expedite the work of a department to meet
increased duties of a seasonal or emergency nature which may occur within a
department. ('70 Code, § 131.04; amend. Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81)
§ 32.05 TRANSFER OF WORK AMONG DEPARTMENTS.
   The City Manager may direct any department to perform work for any other
department to meet increased duties of a seasonal or emergency nature. ('70
Code, § 131.05; amend. Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81)
§ 32.06 ASSISTANT TO THE CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager may, whenever he deems it necessary or expedient, and upon
approval of the position by Council, employ, within existing or amended
appropriations, an assistant, who shall assist the City Manager in the
performance of his duties in the manner and to the extent as the City Manager
may direct. ('70 Code, § 131.06; amend. Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81)
§ 32.07 AUTHORITY TO SELL REAL ESTATE OWNED BY CITY.
   (A)   Whenever City Council determines that it would be in the best interest
of the city to sell certain real estate owned by the city, it may authorize the
City Manager to sell such real estate without advertising for bids for such
sale.
   (B)   The sale of such real estate shall be for a price, and upon such terms
and conditions, as Council may approve by ordinance.
(Ord. 2700, passed 2-14-89)
PURCHASING
§ 32.10 PURCHASING AGENT.
   (A)   The City Manager or other appointed officer shall act as purchasing
agent for the city, making all purchases required by the various departments
and selling unused, worn out, surplus or obsolete equipment and materials.
   (B)   Whenever the head of a department deems it necessary or desirable that
supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services be purchased or secured,
the department head shall inquire of potential suppliers as to the cost of the
purchases and solicit informal competitive bids to supply the items or services
required, and then shall prepare and submit to the purchasing agent a purchase
order therefor, specifying the nature of the purchase desired, the cost or
estimated cost, the quantity required and such other information as the
purchasing agent may request. Upon receipt of any purchase order for the
purchase of supplies, materials or services and the probable cost thereof
exceeds the statutory limitation, the purchase shall be made by formal bidding
as hereinafter provided. However, if the cost for the supplies, materials,
equipment or contractual services to be purchased exceeds the statutory
limitation, the City Manager may request City Council's authorization to make
such purchase without formal bidding. The authorization for such a purchase may
be given by the City Council after they have reviewed the procedure used in
obtaining the informal bids, the number of bids received, the amount of such
bids and any other information requested by City Council. City Council shall
then determine whether it would be in the best interest of the citizens of the
city to purchase such supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services
without formal bidding, and if so, the City Council may authorize the City
Manager to purchase such supplies, materials, equipment, or contractual
services from the lowest and best informal bidder. If Council fails to
authorize the purchase by informal bidding, the purchase of such equipment
shall be made by use of the formal bidding procedure as hereinafter provided.
The City Manager may authorize the department heads to make purchases for $500
or less, without review by the purchasing agent, however, all purchases in
excess of $500 must be submitted to the purchasing agent as noted above in this
section. Emergency purchases may be made as specified by charter.
('70 Code, § 133.01; amend. Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81; amend. Ord. 2573,
passed 1-13-87; amend. Ord. 2847, passed 1-28-92)
§ 32.11 FORMAL BIDDING.
   Whenever formal bidding is employed, the purchasing agent shall prepare or
cause to be prepared specifications for the articles or services required and
shall advertise the requirements of the city for the same for two consecutive
weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the city, inviting suppliers to
tender bids in writing for the furnishing of the requirements, the bids to be
publicly opened not less than two full weeks following the date of first
advertisement, at a time and place specified in the published notice. If the
contemplated purchase shall not have been included in the annual appropriation
ordinance, a supplementary appropriation shall be required. ('70 Code, §
133.02; amend. Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81; amend. Ord. 2573, passed 1-13-87)
§ 32.12 OPENING AND TABULATION OF BIDS; AWARD OF CONTRACTS.
   Where formal bidding is employed, the bids shall be opened and tabulated
publicly by the City Manager or his representative and by the Director of
Finance or his representative, at the time and place specified in the
advertisement for bids. The investigation of the responsibility of the bidders
shall be made as the City Manager may deem necessary, and the City Manager
shall then award the contract to the lowest and best responsible bidder, unless
he determines that the interest of the city would be better served by rejecting
all bids and ordering a new advertisement, in which case he may so order.
Before the contract is signed, it shall be submitted to the Finance Director
for encumbrance and certification and approved as to form by the Law Director.
Council shall be informed of all bidding action and awarding of contracts. ('70
Code, § 133.03; amend. Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81)
§ 32.125 JOINT PURCHASES.
   Notwithstanding the provisions contained in §§
32.10, 32.11, and 32.12 of this chapter, the City Manager is hereby authorized,
whenever formal bidding is necessary, to advertise for bids either separately
or in conjunction with other political subdivisions, or both, in order to
obtain the lowest and best bid for the city. (Ord. 2429, passed 3-27-84)
§ 32.13 PURCHASE ORDERS.
   Whenever informal bidding is followed pursuant to this chapter, the
purchasing agent shall forward a purchase order prepared by the department
head, addressed to the successful bidder, directing him to supply the goods or
services required in accordance with the terms agreed upon. ('70 Code, §
133.04; amend. Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81)
§ 32.14 INSPECTION.
   The purchasing agent and/or department head shall inspect or supervise the
inspection of all deliveries of supplies, materials, equipment or contractual
services, to determine their conformance with the specifications set forth in
or referred to in the order or contract. ('70 Code, § 133.05; amend. Ord. 2291,
passed 10-27-81)
§ 32.15 PURCHASE OF SURPLUS COMMODITIES.
   The purchasing agent may purchase any personal property from the federal
government whenever the property is offered, if he finds that the purchase can
be made at prices less than would be obtained by taking bids as provided by law
for purchases from private individuals. It shall not be necessary for him to
advertise for bids, but he may make the purchase upon the formalities and terms
as are required by the federal government, irrespective of the amount of money
involved. ('70 Code, § 133.06; amend. Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81)
INVESTMENT AND DEPOSIT POLICY
§ 32.25 PURPOSE.
   Effective cash management is recognized as essential to good fiscal
management. This is particularly true as mounting costs and expanding programs
have placed ever increasing pressures on local governmental revenues.
Investment returns on funds not immediately required can help to reduce this
pressure. Effective cash management of these funds requires an investment and
deposit policy be well founded and uncompromisingly applied.
(Ord. 2973, passed 4-11-95)
§ 32.26 POLICY; ADOPTION OF POLICY.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to invest public funds in a manner which
will provide the highest investment return with the maximum security while
meeting the daily cash flow demands of the city and conforming to all
applicable local, state and federal statutes governing the investment of public
funds.
   (B)   The city's investment and deposit policy, as set forth in this
subchapter, shall be adopted by ordinance of City Council. The policy shall be
reviewed on an annual basis by the Finance Director and with Council at least
every five years. Any modifications made thereto must be approved by the City
Council. (Ord. 2973, passed 4-11-95)
§ 32.27 OBJECTIVES AND GUIDELINES.
   (A)   The following investment objectives will be applied in the management
of city funds.
      (1)   The primary objective of the city's investment activities is the
preservation of capital and the protection of investment principal.
      (2)   In investing public funds, the city will strive to maximize the
return on the portfolio but will avoid assuming unreasonable investment risks
as are defined within R.C. § 135.14 and further by this city's investment and
deposit policy.
      (3)   The city's investment portfolio will remain sufficiently liquid to
enable the city to meet operating requirements which might be reasonable
anticipated.
      (4)   The city will diversify its investments to avoid incurring
unreasonable and avoidable risks regarding specific security types or
individual financial institutions.
      (5)   Investments shall be made with the exercise of that degree of
judgment and care, under circumstances then prevailing, which persons of
prudence, discretion and intelligence exercise in the management of their own
affairs, not for speculation but for investment, considering the probable
safety of their capital as well as the probable income to be derived.
      (6)   Banks vary in the services they provide, their service fees,
interest rates on interim investments and the minimum compensating balances
required for demand-deposit accounts. The city's objective is to obtain good
banking services while minimizing the cost of banking services to the city.
   (B)   To insure that the city will continue to receive the best service and
rates available and that other financial institutions will have an equal
opportunity to competitively bid in future years, the city will seek
competitive proposals for depositories of active funds at least every five
years.
(Ord. 2973, passed 4-11-95)
§ 32.28 FUND DEPOSITORIES.
   (A)   The Finance Director shall, with the approval of the City Manager,
contract with one or more institutions having made application for such funds
as depositories of the city's active funds. In making such designation
consideration shall be given to the following:
      (1)   The convenience of location of the depositories offices.
      (2)   Interest rates to be paid on active deposits.
      (3)   Service charges to be made for processing transactions.
      (4)   Compliance with other conditions required by the city of their
depositories.
   (B)   The Finance Director may with the approval of the City Manager
contract with one or more institutions for investment counsel. The city will
not relinquish control over assets. The institution shall be chosen based on
rate of return on investment, fees charged for investment counsel, and
compliance with R.C. Chapter 135 and this investment policy.
(Ord. 2973, passed 4-11-95)
§ 32.29 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS AND DEALERS.
   The Finance Director will maintain a list of financial institutions and
security broker/dealers who maintain an office in the State of Ohio and are
authorized to provide investment services to the city. These may include
"primary" dealers or regional dealers that qualify under Securities & Exchange
Commission Rule 15C3-1 (uniform net capital rule). The Director of Finance:
   (A)   May make additions to the authorized list when the investment and
deposit policy requirements are met.
   (B)   Shall make deletions from the list:
      (1)   If and as directed by ordinance of City Council,
      (2)   Upon failure of the financial institution to meet the foregoing
investment and deposit policy requirements, or
      (3)   Upon request of the financial institution or dealer.
   (C)   May make deletions from the list based on the following criteria or
circumstances:
      (1)   Perceived financial difficulties of the financial institution or
dealer;
      (2)   Consistent lack of competitiveness by the financial institution or
dealer;
      (3)   Lack of experience or familiarity of the account representative in
providing service to large institutional accounts; or
      (4)   When deemed in the best interest of the city.
(Ord. 2973, passed 4-11-95)
§ 32.30 AUTHORIZED AND SUITABLE INVESTMENTS.
   The Finance Director may invest on behalf of and in the name of the city in
the following instruments at a price not exceeding their fair market value:
   (A)   United States Government Securities. Direct obligations of the
Department of the Treasury of the United States of America (bills, notes, and
bonds);
   (B)   United States Government Agency Securities and Instrumentalities of
Government Sponsored Corporations.
      (1)   Bonds, notes, debentures or any other obligations or securities
issued by any federal government agency or instrumentality, the principal and
interest of which are unconditionally guaranteed by the United States; and,
      (2)   Bonds, notes, debentures, or any other obligations or securities
issued by any federal government agency or instrumentality;
   (C)   Competitively Bid Interest Bearing Certificates of Deposit.
Competitively bid interest bearing certificates of deposits in banks and
savings and loan associations organized under the laws of Ohio, and national
banks organized under the laws of the United States, doing business and
situated in Ohio, provided that any such deposits are secured by collateral as
prescribed herein;
   (D)   Repurchase Agreements and Reverse Repurchase Agreements. Repurchase
agreements of a bank or savings and loan association organized under the laws
of the United States or State of Ohio and reverse repurchase agreements for
negotiable direct obligations of the United States or federal agencies.
Provided, however, if any repurchase agreement obligations do not have the full
faith and credit backing of the United States, any such investments shall be
secured by collateral as provided in §
32.31 of this subchapter. A master repurchase agreement must be signed with the
financial institution or dealer;
   (E)   Bankers Acceptance. Bankers acceptances which are eligible for
purchase by the federal reserve system and which are issued by institutions
which are ranked nationally as being in the top 50 in asset and deposit size
within their industry;
   (F)   State Treasury Asset Reserve of Ohio. The State Treasury Asset Reserve
of Ohio ("Star Ohio") is a statewide investment pool managed by the Treasurer
of the State of Ohio similar in concept to a money market fund but available
exclusively to political subdivisions of Ohio. State law sets the guidelines
that determine the program's investment practices;
   (G)   Money Market Funds. Money market funds whose portfolios consist of
those instruments listed in divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
   (H)   Now Accounts. Now accounts, super now accounts or any other similar
account authorized by the Federal Reserve's Depository Institutions'
Deregulation Committee; and
   (I)   Ohio Government Securities. Bonds, notes and other obligations issued
by the State of Ohio or any political subdivision therein.
(Ord. 2973, passed 4-11-95)
§ 32.31 COLLATERALIZATION OF COMPETITIVELY BID INTEREST BEARING TIME
CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT, REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS AND NOW ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   All deposits of city funds in competitively bid interest bearing time
certificates of deposits, Now accounts and active funds of the city, and
repurchase agreements without the full faith and credit backing of the United
States shall be secured by pledged collateral in an amount equal to at least
100% of the deposit less an amount insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation or by any other agency or instrumentality of the federal
government. All securities shall be pledged at market value and all collateral
must maintain a market value equal to at least 100% of the deposit less an
amount insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or by any other
agency or instrumentality of the federal government.
      (1)   The following securities shall be eligible to be pledged as
collateral for purposes of this section:
         (a)   Bonds, notes or other obligations of the United States; or
bonds, notes or other obligations guaranteed as to principal and interest by
the United States or those for which the full faith and credit of the United
States is pledged for the payment of principal and interest thereon, by
language appearing in the instrument specifically providing such guarantee or
pledge and not merely by interpretation or otherwise;
         (b)   Bonds, notes, debentures or other obligations or securities
issued by a federal government agency; bonds, notes or other obligations
guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States or those for which
the faith of the United States is pledged for the payment of principal and
interest thereon, by interpretation or otherwise and not by language appearing
in the instrument specifically providing such guarantee or pledge;
         (c)   Bonds and other obligations of Ohio;
         (d)   Bonds and other obligations of any county, township, school
district, municipal corporation, or other legally constituted taxing
subdivision of Ohio, which is not at the time of such deposit, in default in
the payment of principal or interest on any of its bonds or other obligations
for which the full faith and credit of the issuing subdivision is pledged;
         (e)   Bonds of other states of the United States which have not,
during ten years immediately proceeding the time of such deposits, defaulted in
payments of either interest or principal on any of their bonds.
      (2)   Any and all securities pledged as collateral by any institution
where city investments have been made shall be delivered to the Finance
Director as security for the repayment of public monies or to an independent
third party financial institution or federal reserve bank or branch approved by
the Finance Director serving as trustee (the trustee). Fees and expenses of the
trustee shall be paid by the depository. When securities are held in trust by a
third party, a safekeeping receipt (form of which must be approved by the city)
naming the City of West Carrollton as holder, must be prepared and issued by
the depository and presented to the city.
      (3)   If the depository fails to pay over any part of a deposit due the
city, the Finance Director shall have the option to sell, in a manner
determined by the Finance Director, any of the bonds or other securities
deposited with the Finance Director pursuant to the provisions of this policy.
If the bonds or other securities are on deposit with a trustee, the Finance
Director may request the trustee to deliver to the Finance Director any of the
bonds or other securities on deposit with the trustee; and the Finance Director
shall have the option to sell such bonds or other securities in a manner
determined by the Finance Director. When a sale of bonds or other securities
has been made and upon payment to the Finance Director of the purchase money,
the Finance Director shall transfer such bonds or securities whereupon the
absolute ownership of such bonds or securities shall pass to the purchaser(s),
and any surplus remaining after deducting the amount due the city and expenses
of the sale shall be paid to the depository.
   (B)   (1)   When the depository has deposited eligible securities as
described in this policy with a trustee for safekeeping, the depository may at
any time substitute or exchange eligible securities having a current market
value equal to or greater than the current market value of the securities then
on deposit and for which they are to be substituted or exchanged only:
         (a)   If the Finance Director with the approval of the City Manager
has authorized the depository to make such substitution or exchange on a
continuing basis during a specified period without prior approval of each
substitution or exchange. Such authorization may be effected by the Finance
Director sending to the trustee a written notice stating that substitution may
be effected on a continuing basis during a specified period which shall not
extend beyond the end of the period of designation during which the notice is
given. The trustee may rely upon such notice, and upon the period of
authorization stated therein;
         (b)   If no continuing authorization for substitution or exchange has
been given by the Finance Director, but the depository notifies the Finance
Director, the City Manager, and the trustee of an intended substitution or
exchange, and the Finance Director, the City Manager, or his/her designee fails
to object to the trustee within ten business days after the date appearing on
the notice of proposed substitution. The notice to the Finance Director, the
City Manager, and to the trustee shall be given in writing and delivered
personally or by certified or registered mail with a return receipt requested.
The trustee may assume in such case that the notice has been delivered;
         (c)   If the Finance Director with the approval of the City Manager
gives written authorization for a substitution or exchange of specific
securities.
      (2)   The depository shall notify the Finance Director of any
substitution or exchange of securities authorized by this policy. Upon request
from the Finance Director, the depository and/or the trustee shall furnish a
detailed statement of securities pledged against the deposits of the city. The
detailed statement will provide the value and the then current market value.
   (C)   (1)   With the approval of the Finance Director and the City Manager,
a depository may provide collateral for deposits of city funds in competitively
bid interest bearing time certificates of deposit and for savings accounts or
Now accounts and for active funds of the city through a single pool of
securities pledged toward all deposits of public funds held by the depository
and not otherwise secured pursuant to law.
      (2)   The "pooled collateral" option is subject to the following
conditions:
         (a)   Securities committed to the pool must have a market value at
least equal to 110% of all public monies on deposit with the depository
excluding the amount covered by federal deposit insurance.
         (b)   The securities eligible for deposit in the pool shall be those
described in division (A) of this section. In addition to those described in
division (A) of this section, obligations of any county, municipal corporation,
or other legally constituted authority of any other state, or any
instrumentality of such county, municipal corporation, or other authority of
any other state shall be eligible under the "pooled collateral" option.
         (c)   The securities constituting the pool shall be delivered to a
trustee as described in division (A) of this section. Fees and expenses of the
trustee shall be paid by the depository.
         (d)   The city shall have an individual security interest in the pool
of securities pledged by a public depository pursuant to this section in the
proportion that the total amount of the city's public monies secured by the
pool bears to the total amount of public deposits so secured.
         (e)   If the depository fails to pay over any part of the deposits due
the city, the Finance Director may request the trustee to deliver to the
Finance Director any of the securities on deposit with the trustee, not to
exceed the amount necessary to produce an amount equal to the deposits made by
the Finance Director and not paid over to the city, less the portions of the
deposits covered by federal deposit insurance, plus any accrued interest due on
the deposits; and in any event not to exceed the city's proportional security
interest in the market value of the pool as of the date of the depository's
failure to pay over the deposits as such interest and value are determined by
the trustee. The Finance Director shall have the option to sell such securities
in the manner determined by the Finance Director. Any surplus remaining after
deducting the amount due the city and expenses of the sale shall be paid to the
depository.
         (f)   The depository at any time may substitute, exchange, or release
eligible securities deposited with a qualified trustee pursuant to this
section, provided that such substitution, exchange, or release does not reduce
the total market value of the securities to an amount that is less than 110% of
the total amount of public funds on deposit with the depository.
         (g)   The institution shall provide to the Finance Director a detailed
quarterly statement of the face and market values of all securities pledged to
the pool within 30 days of the end of the quarter. The institution will also
disclose the total amount of public funds on deposit in each quarterly
statement.
         (h)   If at any time the market value of the pool is less than 110% of
all public deposits held by the trustee, it is the responsibility of the
depository to immediately add sufficient securities to the pool in an amount
that will bring the market value of the pool to at least 110% of all public
funds on deposit with the trustee.
         (i)   Failure of the institution to abide by any of the provisions of
this section is cause for immediate suspension of the institution as a
qualified depository for any city funds.
(Ord. 2973, passed 4-11-95)
§ 32.32 SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   (A)   All security transactions, including collateral pledges, except for
certificates of deposit purchased from an institution utilizing the "pooled
collateral" option, shall be conducted on a delivery versus payment basis.
Securities will be held by a third party custodian designated by the Finance
Director and evidenced by safekeeping receipts.
   (B)   Securities owned by the city and collateral securities pledged to the
city must be maintained in safekeeping at a bank other than the bank or broker/
dealer through which the specific owned security is purchased or from which the
specific collateral security is pledged.
(Ord. 2973, passed 4-11-95)
§ 32.33 DIVERSIFICATIONS.
   The city will diversify the use of investment instruments to avoid incurring
unreasonable risks inherent in over-investing in specific instruments,
individual financial institutions or maturities. With the following exceptions
no more than 50% of the city's total investment portfolio will be invested in a
single security type or with a single financial institution:
   (A)   United States Treasury Securities;
   (B)   United States Government Agency Securities and Instrumentalities of
Government Sponsored Corporations, the principal and interest of which are
unconditionally guaranteed by the United States;
   (C)   Fully Collateralized Certificate of Deposit; and
   (D)   State Treasury Asset Reserve of Ohio. (Ord. 2973, passed 4-11-95)
§ 32.34 MAXIMUM MATURITIES.
   To the extent possible, the city will attempt to match its investments with
anticipated cash flow requirements. Unless matched to a specific cash flow
requirement, the city will not directly invest in securities maturing more than
two years from the date of purchase.
(Ord. 2973, passed 4-11-95)
§ 32.35 COMPETITIVE BIDDING.
   (A)   The purpose of competitive bidding is to strengthen the investment
program in terms of level and consistency of performance. All sales of
securities will be bid competitively to the extent practical and all
investments will be placed with vendors yielding the highest returns to the
city. The right is reserved to reject the bid yielding the highest rate of
return on any investment if inconsistent with the city investment strategy,
i.e., maturity, risk, liquidity, etc.
   (B)   Price and rate rotations on all trades may be obtained from sources
within and outside the city. In the case of the sale of securities or the
purchase of securities where all other factors are considered by the Finance
Director to be equal, placement will be made in favor of the institution
situated within the city if two bids or more are the same.
(Ord. 2973, passed 4-11-95)
§ 32.36 LIABILITY.
   The City Manager and Finance Director acting in accordance with written
procedures and this investment policy and exercising due diligence shall be
relieved of personal responsibility for an individual security's credit risk or
market price changes, provided deviations from expectations are reported in a
timely fashion and appropriate action is taken to control adverse developments.
(Ord. 2973, passed 4-11-95)
§ 32.37 ETHICS AND CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Officers and employees involved in the investment process shall refrain from
activity that could conflict with proper execution of the investment program,
or which could impair their ability to make impartial investment decisions.
Employees and investment officials shall disclose to the City Manager any
material financial interests in financial institutions that conduct business
with the city, and they shall further disclose any large personal financial/
investment positions that could be related to the performance of the city's
portfolio. Employees and officers shall subordinate their personal investment
transactions to those of the city.
(Ord. 2973, passed 4-11-95)
§ 32.38 REPORTING.
   The Finance Director is charged with reporting on the investment activity
and earnings in the city's quarterly and annual financial reports.
(Ord. 2973, passed 4-11-95)
§ 32.39 POOLING OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The Finance Director is authorized to pool cash balances from the
several different funds of the city for investment purposes.
   (B)   Interest on invested funds will be distributed to the funds listed
below based on percentages computed from three month moving averages of
balances in each fund.
   (C)   Interest on certificates of deposit will be distributed in the month
received. Interest from the Star Ohio Investment Pool will be distributed
monthly. Earnings from future investment vehicles will be distributed in the
month received.
   (D)   Funds receiving distributions will be:
      (1)   General;
      (2)   Law Enforcement and Education;
      (3)   Park;
      (4)   Law Enforcement;
      (5)   Civic Center;
      (6)   Water;
      (7)   Sewer;
      (8)   Pool; and
      (9)   Half Percent.
   (E)   Other funds are deemed to be either no balance funds or funds
supported by one of the funds listed above which receive distributions. Any
funds established by the city required by law to receive earnings will be
included.
(Ord. 2973, passed 4-11-95)
CHAPTER 33: DEPARTMENTS; BOARDS; AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Department of Finance
33.01   Duties of Director
33.02   Contracts and purchase orders
33.03   Payment of funds
33.04   Payrolls
33.05   Payments on construction type ontracts
33.06   Bond of the Finance Director
33.07   Treasury investment authorized
33.08   Allocation of earnings and losses of treasury investment
33.09   Division of income tax
Department of Safety
33.10   Composition of department
33.11   Division of Police
33.12   Chief of Police
33.13   Bond of Chief of Police
33.14   Division of Fire
33.15   Fire Chief
33.16   Bond of Fire Chief
33.17   Auxiliary police
33.18   Law Enforcement Trust Fund established
33.19   Emergency ambulance services
Department of Service
33.20   Division of Streets
33.21   Division of Refuse Collection
33.22   Division of Water
33.23   Division of Sanitary Sewer
33.24   (Reserved)
33.25   (Reserved)
33.26   Transfer of personnel
33.27   Bond of Service Director
Department of Law
33.30   Duties of Director
33.31   Bond counsel
33.32   Bond of the Law Director
Department of Parks and Recreation
33.40   Powers and duties
33.41   Bond of Parks and Recreation Director
City Beautiful Commission
33.45   Establishment of commission
33.46   Objectives of commission
33.47   Number of members
33.48   Length of term
33.49   Yearly budget proposal
33.50   Records to be kept
Board of Trustees of the Dayton-Miami Valley Regional Arts and Cultural
District
33.55   Definitions
33.56   Creation; purpose
33.57   Board of trustees
33.58   Powers of the board
33.59   Powers of the district
33.60   Expenses
33.61   Dissolution
Department of Planning and Community Development
33.70   Powers and duties
33.71   Bond of Planning and Community Development Director
33.72   Division of Code Enforcement
33.73   Division of Building Inspection
33.74   Division of Zoning Administration
Department of Personnel
33.80   Duties
33.81   Bond of Director of Personnel
Board of Water and Sewer Charge Adjustment
33.90   Establishment
Attendance Policy for Boards and Commissions
33.100   Establishment, effect of policy
33.101   Notice of meetings
33.102   Unexcused absences
Municipal Recreation Board
33.110   Objectives
33.111   Meetings; quorum
33.112   Officers
33.113   Capacity of board
Business Advisory Council
33.120   Establishment
33.121   Objectives
33.122   Membership; compensation
33.123   Terms
33.124   Rules; officers
Technology Advisory Group
33.130   Establishment
33.131   Objectives
33.132   Membership; compensation
33.133   Terms
33.134   Rules; officers
Independence Day Festival Committee
33.135   Establishment
33.136   Objectives
33.137   Membership; compensation
33.138   Terms
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
§ 33.01 DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   The Department of Finance shall be under the direction of a Director of
Finance, who shall be responsible to the City Manager. The Director of Finance
shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Keep in proper books a full and accurate record of all moneys received
and disbursed on behalf of the city and of all moneys due to and from the city
upon contracts and orders upon which the city is obligated and otherwise.
   (B)   Have custody of all moneys paid to the city, when received by him, and
to disburse all city moneys in accordance with the Charter and ordinances,
signing all warrants upon the city treasury in making the disbursements.
   (C)   Render a monthly report to the City Manager and to Council reflecting
the financial condition of the city, showing monthly balances of all
appropriations and quarterly receipts in all funds.
   (D)   Certify that funds are available according to law to pay moneys
provided by all contracts, agreements or other obligations for the expenditure
of city funds, and no contract, agreement or other obligation shall be valid
until so certified.
   (E)   Make payment of the interest and principal on the bonded debt when
due, and keep accurate records of the debt and of the payments thereon.
   (F)   Prepare the city payrolls.
   (G)   Administer all employee pension and benefit funds, receiving the
funds, acting as custodian thereof and making disbursements therefrom, signing
warrants and checks for the purposes, according to law.
   (H)   Enter into contracts with legal depositories for the deposit of all
funds of the city with depositories; rent safe deposit boxes or otherwise
provide for the safekeeping of securities and other documents for payment of
money to the city, and maintain custody of all documents evidencing investments
of the city and of pension and benefit funds of city employees.
   (I)   Render invoices for water consumption and sanitary sewer rents to
purchasers, collect, and deposit moneys from consumers in payment for water
consumption and sanitary sewer rents. Render such reports of receipts,
deposits, and balances as determined to be necessary for proper accounting
records. The above invoices and records shall be based on records provided by
the Department of Service. Submit quarterly report to Service Director of total
gallons of water registered for revenue.
   (J)   Prepare and submit reports as may be required by law.
   (K)   Assist the City Manager in the preparation of the annual budget.
   (L)   Perform such other duties as the City Manager may prescribe.
('70 Code, § 135.01; amend. Ord. 2154, passed 8-28-79; amend. Ord. 2291, passed
10-27-81)
§ 33.02 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASE ORDERS.
   Every undertaking by the city involving the expenditure of city money shall
be in writing, in the form of a purchase order or of a contract as may be
appropriate, and no officer or employee of the city shall have authority to
enter into any oral agreement involving the expenditure of money. The City
Manager shall sign all contracts on behalf of the city and he or those
designated by him shall sign all purchase orders. The Finance Director shall
attach to each contract a certificate signed by the Finance Director that the
estimated amount of money required to meet the obligation of the city by the
contract has been lawfully appropriated and in the city treasury or in the
process of collection to the credit of the fund involved, free from any prior
encumbrance. In the case of a contract to continue beyond any current year and
to involve expenditures of money in future years, the Director of Finance shall
only certify as to the money estimated to be paid by the city thereunder during
the current year. ('70 Code, § 135.02; amend. Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81)
§ 33.03 PAYMENT OF FUNDS.
   The Finance Director shall require invoices to be submitted to him with
written certificate thereon by the head of the department and division of the
city concerned to the effect that the goods or services for which the invoice
is rendered have been delivered or performed in the manner, quantity and
quality specified, prior to the issuance of the city's warrant in payment
thereof, whereupon the city's warrant shall be promptly issued in payment. ('70
Code, § 135.03; amend. Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81)
§ 33.04 PAYROLLS.
   (A)   Department heads shall be responsible to see that time sheets or time
cards with their verification thereon are submitted to the Finance Director at
a time and in a form as prescribed by the Finance Director.
   (B)   Payrolls shall be submitted to the City Manager for approval, when
prepared by the Finance Director and, upon the City Manager's approval thereof,
the Director shall issue his warrants in payment thereof when due. It shall not
be necessary for the Director to encumber in advance or to certify as to the
availability of funds appropriated for personal services, except those obtained
on a contractual basis, provided that upon issuance of the warrants the
Director shall immediately cause the appropriate funds to be encumbered to the
extent of the warrants issued. ('70 Code, § 135.04; amend. Ord. 2291, passed
10-27-81)
§ 33.05 PAYMENTS ON CONSTRUCTION TYPE CONTRACTS.
   Prior to the making of partial or final payments on construction type
contracts, the City Manager and the City Engineer shall certify that the
conditions of the contract for which the payment is to be made have been
complied with. In the case of partial payments, the payments shall be made on
estimates of the amount and value of the work accomplished; the certificates or
estimates shall include only the amount and value of the work accomplished and
materials used since any preceding estimate; the certificates or estimates
shall further indicate that a greater portion of the contract has been
performed by the contracting party than that which is represented by the
requested partial payment, in addition to any preceding partial payments. Upon
receiving the certificates, estimates or invoices, properly certified, the
Finance Director shall then issue warrants in payment. ('70 Code, § 135.05;
amend. Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81)
§ 33.06 BOND OF THE FINANCE DIRECTOR.
   The Finance Director shall furnish bond, as required by the Charter, in the
sum of $50,000, the premium for which shall be paid by the city. The bond shall
be for the protection of the city and the public against loss due to acts or
omissions of the Finance Director. ('70 Code, § 135.06; amend. Ord. 2291,
passed 10-27-81)
§ 33.07 TREASURY INVESTMENT AUTHORIZED.
   Whenever there are moneys in the treasury of the city which will not be
required to be used for a period of 6 months or more, the moneys may, in lieu
of being deposited in a bank or banks, be invested by the Director of Finance
in accordance with the provisions of R.C. §§ 731.56 through 731.59. Investments
so purchased shall be sold in accordance with R.C. § 731.57.
('70 Code, § 135.07)
§ 33.08 ALLOCATION OF EARNINGS AND LOSSES OF TREASURY INVESTMENT.
   (A)   Premiums and discounts on treasury investment purchases shall be
credited to or charged against and amortized over the period from purchase to
date of maturity of the security. Gains and losses in the sale of treasury
investment securities shall be credited to or paid from interest.
   (B)   Net interest realized by the treasury investment account shall be
distributed quarterly as follows: interest on bonds and special assessment
funds shall be paid to the bond retirement fund; the interest on any fund
created by the terms of any trust, will or agreement, which by the terms of the
instrument must be credited to the fund, shall be paid to each of the
respective funds; the balance of the interest from any fund or security held by
the treasury investment account shall be paid to the general fund.
   (C)   For the purpose of distributing interest, each fund shall be
considered as having, during the period for which distribution is to be made,
an average daily balance in the treasury investment account equal to the
average of the balances each fund has in such account on the first day of each
month during the period for which distribution is to be made. ('70 Code, §
135.08)
§ 33.09 DIVISION OF INCOME TAX.
   The Division of Income Tax shall be under the direction of the Finance
Director. The Division shall perform the following functions:
   (A)   See that all persons required by the income tax ordinance file
necessary returns, and that all income tax moneys due the city are collected
when due and deposited.
   (B)   Render reports of total receipts, deposits and balances to the Finance
Director as determined by him to be necessary for his records.
   (C)   Keep accurate records of all accounts and make sure that all
information concerning individual and business returns is kept in strictest
confidence.
   (D)   Analyze any returns which are questionable by obtaining information
needed to determine accuracy of such returns as provided for in the income tax
ordinance and resolution, or subsequent amendments thereto. Refer unresolved
cases to the Income Tax Board of Review, along with sufficient information for
them to reach a decision.
   (E)   To administer the income tax ordinance and resolution and all
subsequent amendments thereto.
   (F)   To perform other duties pertaining to the Division of Income Tax as
the City Manager may direct. ('70 Code, § 145.01; amend. Ord. 2291, passed 10-
27-81)
DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY
§ 33.10 COMPOSITION OF DEPARTMENT.
   The Department of Safety shall be under the direction of the Safety
Director. It shall be composed of the Division of Police and Division of Fire,
and any other divisions as may hereafter be established. ('70 Code, § 137.01)
§ 33.11 DIVISION OF POLICE.
   The Division of Police shall perform the following duties in providing
police services to the city:
   (A)   Be responsible for the preservation of the public peace and order, the
prevention and detection of crime, the apprehension of offenders of law and
ordinances, the protection of persons and property and the enforcement of the
criminal laws of the United States and of this state and the ordinances of the
city.
   (B)   Perform such other duties as the City Manager may prescribe.
('70 Code, § 137.02; amend. Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81)
§ 33.12 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall be in charge of the operation of the Division of
Police and of the personnel thereof, and shall be responsible to the Safety
Director. He shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Formulate and recommend to the Safety Director for approval policies,
procedures, rules and regulations for the government and operation of the
Division of Police and its personnel.
   (B)   Be responsible for the performance by the Division of Police, of the
duties assigned to it by the Charter, by the law, by this administrative code
and by the Safety Director.
   (C)   Have control of the assignment of all police personnel.
   (D)   Provide for the training and instruction of all personnel in the
Division of Police.
   (E)   Act as liaison officer in the cooperation by the city with other law
enforcement agencies.
   (F)   Perform any other duties as the City Manager may prescribe to the
Safety Director. ('70 Code, § 137.03; amend. Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81)
§ 33.13 BOND OF CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall furnish bond in the amount of $10,000, the premium
for which shall be paid by the city. The bond shall be for the protection of
the city and the public against loss due to the acts or omissions of the Chief
of Police. ('70 Code, § 137.04; amend. Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81)
§ 33.14 DIVISION OF FIRE.
   The Division of Fire shall perform the following duties in providing fire
and ambulance services to the city:
   (A)   Be responsible for the prevention and detection of fire, and the
protection of persons and property where fires or other disasters are involved.
   (B)   Be responsible for providing ambulance services.
   (C)   Perform such other duties as the City Manager may prescribe.
('70 Code, § 137.05; amend. Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81)
§ 33.15 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall be in charge of the operation of the Division of Fire
and of the personnel thereof, and shall be responsible to the Safety Director.
He shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Formulate and recommend to the Safety Director for approval, policies,
procedures, rules and regulations for the government and operation of the
Division of Fire and its personnel.
   (B)   Be responsible for the performance by the Division of Fire of the
duties assigned to it by the Charter, by the law, by this title and by the
Safety Director.
   (C)   Have control of the assignment of all fire officers and equipment.
   (D)   Provide for the training and instruction of all firemen and officers.
   (E)   Act as liaison officer in the cooperation by the city with other fire
agencies.
   (F)   Perform the other duties as the City Manager may prescribe to the
Safety Director. ('70 Code, § 137.06; amend. Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81)
§ 33.16 BOND OF FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall furnish bond in the amount of $10,000, the premium for
which shall be paid by the city. The bond shall be for the protection of the
city and the public against loss due to the acts or omissions of the Fire
Chief. ('70 Code, § 137.07; amend. Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81)
§ 33.17 AUXILIARY POLICE.
   (A)   Organization.
      (1)   A volunteer department to be hereafter known as the West Carrollton
Auxiliary Police Department is hereby established and organized pursuant to
R.C. § 737.051. The primary purpose of this department shall be to assist the
police department in their regular and special duties.
      (2)   All members shall serve on a volunteer basis and the compensation
for the service shall be $1 per year, payable annually.
   (B)   Membership.
      (1)   The membership shall be limited to 12 regular (active) members and
6 standby (inactive) members.
      (2)   Applications for membership shall be forwarded to the police chief
who shall check the applicant and recommend approval or disapproval to the City
Manager. The police chief will appoint and remove members with the advice and
consent of the City Manager.
      (3)   Auxiliary police do not have the right to appeal in case of removal
or discharge.
      (4)   Applicants shall complete the standard city employee application
form.
      (5)   Applicants must pass a physical given by the city doctor.
      (6)   All new members shall be required to complete the state approved
police course as soon as practical after acceptance. Attendance at training
courses sponsored by the police department is mandatory.
      (7)   Resignation of any member shall become effective upon written
notice to the police chief and return of the badges, patches, uniforms and
equipment that were issued to him.
      (8)   Any auxiliary policeman may request being placed on temporary
inactive status due to personal or business reasons. The request must be in
writing and must be approved by the police chief.
   (C)   Uniforms and equipment.
      (1)   Any uniforms or equipment purchased from the auxiliary organization
funds shall become the property of the police department.
      (2)   Uniforms and equipment will be prescribed, replaced, furnished by
and will remain the property of the city.
      (3)   Uniforms will be furnished to active members only.
   (D)   Auxiliary duty rules.
      (1)   Auxiliary members shall be governed by rules and regulations of the
police department.
      (2)   Any member on regular duty shall be under orders of the regular
police officer on duty.
      (3)   A member on cruiser duty will remain in the car unless otherwise
ordered by the regular officer, except as otherwise covered under rules and
regulations of the police department.
      (4)   A member will drive a cruiser only on orders of or by permission of
a regular officer, and the cruiser will be driven in the manner prescribed by
the state and city ordinances for emergency vehicles. The dispatcher will be
informed when an auxiliary policeman is driving a cruiser.
      (5)   A member on regular duty will wear the complete uniform in a neat
and proper manner. A member on emergency duty will wear his badge and should
wear the cap, if possible.
      (6)   An auxiliary detail on sports, parade or other special duty will be
under orders of the police chief or the regular officer on duty.
   (E)   Auxiliary police fund.
      (1)   An auxiliary police fund may be maintained by the organization.
      (2)   The auxiliary police may accept donations to the aforementioned
fund for services performed, but may in no instance solicit for funds for the
organization.
   (F)   Auxiliary off-duty rules.
      (1)   A member shall not use his badge, wear the uniform or engage in
auxiliary work when not on regular, special or emergency duty.
      (2)   When reporting for any type of duty, the member shall drive any
personal or privately owned vehicle in the normal and lawful manner, and not as
an emergency vehicle.
      (3)   When reporting for any type of duty, the member shall report to the
regular officer or dispatcher and sign the time card, and his presence for duty
shall be noted.
   (G)   Auxiliary rules of disciplinary action. Members shall be governed by
the same rules as regular police officers, except they do not have the right to
appeal, as specified in division (B) (3) of this section.
   (H)   Meetings.
      (1)   The regular meetings of the organization shall be set by the Police
Chief.
      (2)   Any active member who shall absent himself from 3 consecutive
regular meetings without acceptable cause shall be discharged from the
organization.
   (I)   Officers.
      (1)   The officers of the auxiliary shall be the president and secretary-
treasurer.
      (2)   The president and secretary-treasurer shall be appointed by the
Police Chief. ('70 Code, § 137.08; amend. Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81)
§ 33.18 LAW ENFORCEMENT TRUST FUND ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Finance Director is hereby directed to establish a Law Enforcement
Trust Fund in the records of the city.
   (B)   All contraband proceeds shall be deposited in the Law Enforcement
Trust Fund established.
   (C)   Such contraband funds shall be used only for law enforcement purposes
as appropriated by the City Council. (Ord. 2693, passed 1-10-89)
§ 33.19 EMERGENCY AMBULANCE SERVICES.
   (A)   The following fees are hereby established to be charged for emergency
ambulance services provided by the city:
      (1)   For Residents and Non-Residents of the City of West Carrollton,
Ohio:
         Basic Life Support Service (BLS)   $650.00
         Advanced Life Support (ALS-1)   $850.00
         Advanced Life Support Service (ALS-2)   $1,050.00
         Mileage (per mile to the hospital)   $15.00
      (2)   With respect to charges established for city residents, the City of
West Carrollton shall accept the assignment of third party benefits paid on
behalf of the patient as the usual and customary charge for the service
provided as payment in full for services rendered. City residents shall not be
responsible for any out-of-pocket expenses as a result of the taxpayer
supported income tax. For purposes of this section, a West Carrollton resident
shall be any person whose principal place of residence is located within the
City of West Carrollton at the time the service is rendered.
(Ord. 3540. Passed 12-10-13.)
   (B)   The following policies are hereby established by this Council to
govern the collection procedures to be used by the city in recovering said
charges:
      (1)   EMT/Paramedic personnel will make reasonable efforts to obtain the
address and insurance information of all recipients of emergency ambulance
services.
      (2)   All recipients of emergency ambulance services will be sent an
informational letter explaining the charges established herein and requesting
additional insurance information as necessary.
      (3)   Claims will be filed with recipients' insurance carriers for
reimbursement of charges.
      (4)   Recipients will be furnished a statement showing insurance payment
collected.
      (5)   Under no circumstances will threats of litigation be issued or
suits be filed by the municipality in an effort to collect the charges
established herein, without prior approval of Council.
(Ord. 3085, passed 2-24-98)
DEPARTMENT OF SERVICE
§ 33.20 DIVISION OF STREETS.
   The Division of Streets shall be under the direction of the Service
Director. The Division shall perform the following functions:
   (A)   Maintain, repair, construct, improve and extend the public streets of
the city.
   (B)   Maintain, repair, construct, improve and extend the storm sewer
systems of the city.
   (C)   Apply and maintain all traffic control signals, signs and markings
upon the streets and curbs of the city.
   (D)   Maintain maps and records of the streets, storm sewers, buildings and
premises which may be necessary to properly operate the department.
   (E)   Perform such other duties as the City Manager may prescribe to the
Service Director.
('70 Code, § 139.01; amend. Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81)
§ 33.21 DIVISION OF REFUSE COLLECTION.
   The Division of Refuse Collection shall be under the direction of the
Service Director. The Division shall perform the following functions:
   (A)   Collect, remove and dispose of garbage, brush, trimmings, refuse and
trash from residences and other places within the city in accordance with
Chapter 53, or subsequent amendments thereto.
   (B)   Perform such other duties as the City Manager may prescribe to the
Service Director.
(Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81)
§ 33.22 DIVISION OF WATER.
   The Division of Water shall be under the direction of the Service Director.
The Division shall perform the following functions:
   (A)   Operate, maintain and repair the water works system of the city,
including the buildings used by the same, the wells, distribution lines,
meters, tanks and fire hydrants; and perform the distribution of water through
the system as pumped by the city from its wells and as purchased from other
agencies, to the residences, hydrants and other places where water is used
within the city.
   (B)   Maintain accurate records of water pumped for annual state reports.
   (C)   Operate and maintain the water system in accordance with state
requirements and maintain necessary records of operation.
   (D)   Maintain proper maps of the water distribution system of the city.
   (E)   Perform other duties as the City Manager may prescribe to the Service
Director.
('70 Code, § 139.02; amend. Ord. 2154, passed 8-28-79; amend. Ord. 2291, passed
10-27-81)
§ 33.23 DIVISION OF SANITARY SEWER.
   The Division of Sanitary Sewer shall be under the direction of the Service
Director. The Division shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Operate, maintain and repair the sanitary sewer system of the city,
including the buildings used by the same and the water pollution control
facilities.
   (B)   Operate and maintain the water pollution control facilities in
accordance with state requirements and maintain necessary records of operation.
   (C)   Maintain proper maps of the sanitary sewer system of the city.
   (D)   Perform other duties pertaining to the sanitary sewer system as the
City Manager may prescribe to the Service Director.
('70 Code, § 139.03; amend. Ord. 2154, passed 8-28-79; amend. Ord. 2291, passed
10-27-81)
§ 33.24 (RESERVED)
§ 33.25 (RESERVED)
§ 33.26 TRANSFER OF PERSONNEL.
   The Service Director may temporarily transfer employees from one division
under his jurisdiction to another division under his jurisdiction to expedite
the work of a particular division or to meet increased duties of a seasonal,
emergency or periodic nature which may occur.
('70 Code, § 139.06; amend. Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81)
§ 33.27 BOND OF SERVICE DIRECTOR.
   The Service Director shall furnish bond in accordance with the Charter in
the amount of $10,000, the premium for which shall be paid by the city. The
bond shall be for the protection of the city and the public against loss due to
the acts or omissions of the Service Director.
('70 Code, § 139.07; amend. Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81)
DEPARTMENT OF LAW
§ 33.30 DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   The Department of Law shall be under the direction of the Law Director and
responsible to Council. He shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Attend all regular meetings of Council and special meetings of Council
committees, boards and commissions, when requested.
   (B)   Advise and render opinions to Council, to the City Manager, to boards
and commissions and to the administrative officers and departments on all
matters of law involving the city and Council members, officers and departments
in the performance of their official duties.
   (C)   Draft or approve as to form, all ordinances, contracts, resolutions
and other documents of a legal nature to be made and entered into by the city.
   (D)   Represent the city before all courts sitting within the state in
actions at law in which the city is a party.
   (E)   Assist in the preparation of documents and transcripts for the
issuance of bonds and notes of the city.
   (F)   Prosecute in the Mayor's court and other courts of jurisdiction when
necessary, all cases based on affidavits filed therein by the police division
and by other city officials, alleging violations of city ordinances and of
state laws, and prosecute cases based upon affidavits filed in court by private
parties as appear to the Law Director to be meritorious.
   (G)   The Law Director may, with the approval of Council, retain the
services of an assistant and/or trial counsel to perform the duties herein
required to be performed by the Law Director.
   (H)   The Law Director shall perform such other duties consistent with his
office as may be required by the Charter, by ordinance or resolution of the
Council, or by the laws of the state unless otherwise provided by ordinance of
Council. ('70 Code, § 141.01; amend. Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81)
§ 33.31 BOND COUNSEL.
   Whenever Council proposes to issue bonds or notes to finance public
improvements, or for any other purpose authorized by the laws of the state, the
Law Director may, upon Council approval, engage the services of any firm of
recognized bond attorneys to assist the Law Director in causing the bonds and
notes to be issued and to render or furnish approving opinions thereon to
purchasers of bonds and notes. ('70 Code, § 141.02; amend. Ord. 2291, passed
10-27-81)
§ 33.32 BOND OF THE LAW DIRECTOR.
   The Law Director shall furnish bond as required by the Charter, in the
amount of $5,000, the premium for which shall be paid by the city. The bond
shall be for the protection of the city and the public against loss due to acts
or omissions of the Law Director. ('70 Code, § 141.03; amend. Ord. 2291, passed
10-27-81)
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
§ 33.40 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Department of Parks and Recreation shall be under the direction of the
Parks and Recreation Director who shall be responsible to the City Manager. The
Parks and Recreation Director shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Develop and implement a variety of recreation programs and activities
for leisure time enjoyment.
   (B)   Maintain and repair city buildings and grounds.
   (C)   Operate and maintain the swimming pool.
   (D)   Develop plans and implement improvements in the city parks system.
   (E)   Perform such other duties as the City Manager may prescribe to the
Parks and Recreation Director. (Ord. 1777, passed 4-10-73; amend. Ord. 2291,
passed 10-27-81)
§ 33.41 BOND OF PARKS AND RECREATION DIRECTOR.
   The Parks and Recreation Director shall furnish bond, as required by the
Charter, in the amount of $10,000, the premium for which shall be paid by the
city. The bond shall be for the protection of the city and the public against
loss due to acts or omissions of the Parks and Recreation Director. (Ord. 2291,
passed 10-27-81)
Cross-reference:
   See Municipal Recreation Board, §§
33.110 through 33.113
CITY BEAUTIFUL COMMISSION
§ 33.45 ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSION.
   A city beautiful commission is established for the city. (Ord. 1707, passed
11-23-71)
§ 33.46 OBJECTIVES OF COMMISSION.
   The objectives of this commission shall be as follows:
   (A)   To make specific recommendations to Council for improvements in the
appearance of streets, parks, buildings and other property owned or controlled
by the city.
   (B)   To sponsor, promote, coordinate and otherwise encourage both
individual and collective beautification efforts by business, industry and the
general citizenry.
   (C)   To generate city-wide interest, pride and action related to
beautification through contests, awards and similar programs.
(Ord. 1707, passed 11-23-71)
§ 33.47 NUMBER OF MEMBERS.
   The City Beautiful Commission shall consist of fifteen (15) members who
shall be residents of the City, or persons who work within the City, and shall
be appointed by the Council in such a manner as to provide broad geographical
representation. Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 3191. Passed 10-23-01.)
§ 33.48 LENGTH OF TERM.
   All members of the commission shall serve for a term of 2 years except that
7 members of the commission first appointed shall serve for one year in order
to provide for overlapping of terms. The terms of those members first appointed
shall be effective January 1, 1972, and the appointment of new members to the
commission shall be made effective on January 1st of each year thereafter.
(Ord. 1707, passed 11-23-71)
§ 33.49 YEARLY BUDGET PROPOSAL.
   The city beautiful commission shall annually submit a budget proposal to the
City Manager for funds to carry out its activities for the ensuing year. This
budget proposal shall be subject to the same review, modification and approval
procedures as other departmental budgets. All purchases and expenditures of
moneys by the commission shall be according to rules and regulations adopted by
the City Manager and in accordance with purchasing requirements established for
all city departments.
(Ord. 1707, passed 11-23-71)
§ 33.50 RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   The city beautiful commission shall adopt its own rules and elect its own
officers annually. It shall keep current and complete records of its meetings
and activities, and shall present an annual report to the Council on its yearly
activities prior to January 31 of each year.
(Ord. 1707, passed 11-23-71)
BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE DAYTON-MIAMI VALLEY
REGIONAL ARTS AND CULTURAL DISTRICT
§ 33.55 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARTISTIC OR CULTURAL FACILITY. Includes, but is not limited to, a performing
arts center, a concert hall, a museum, a living arts center,  and other
property, improvements, or facilities used in connection therewith.
   ARTS OR CULTURAL HERITAGE. Includes, but is not limited to, literature,
theater, music, dance, ballet, painting, sculpture, photography, motion
pictures, architecture, archaeology, history, natural history, and the natural
sciences.
   ARTS OR CULTURAL ORGANIZATION. Any nonprofit corporation, arts or cultural
council, association, institution, or other organization, no part of the net
earnings of which inures or may lawfully inure to the benefit of any private
shareholder, member, or individual, that provides programs or activities in
areas directly concerned with the arts or cultural heritage.
   BOARD. The board of trustees of the district.
   DISTRICT. The Dayton-Miami Valley regional arts and cultural district
created in §
33.56, and includes the territory within the geographical limits of each
member, as the limits may change from time to time.
   DIVISION LINE. U.S. Route 35 except that the division shall follow the
boundaries of Mad River Township, Village of Riverside, and Village of New
Lebanon which are north of U.S. Route 35.
   MEMBER. Each political subdivision joining in the creation of the district,
as enumerated in §
33.56.
   NORTHERN MEMBERS. Those members (excluding the County of Montgomery and the
City of Dayton), all or a majority of the territory which lies north of the
division line.
   SOUTHERN MEMBERS. Those members (excluding the County of Montgomery, the
City of Dayton, and the City of Kettering), all or a majority of the territory
of which lies south of the division line.
(Res. 20-80, passed 8-12-80)
§ 33.56 CREATION; PURPOSE.
   The County of Montgomery, Ohio, the City of Dayton, Ohio, the City of
Oakwood, Ohio, the City of Kettering, Ohio, the City of Centerville, Ohio, the
City of Trotwood, Ohio, the City of Vandalia, Ohio, and the City of West
Carrollton, Ohio hereby join in creating a regional arts and cultural district
pursuant to the provisions of R.C. Ch. 3381. The official name of the district
shall be Dayton-Miami Valley regional arts and cultural district. The principal
office of the district shall be located in Dayton, Ohio, or in another place in
Montgomery County, Ohio as may be selected by the board. The purposes of the
district shall be to make grants to support the operating or capital expenses
of arts or cultural organizations located within the district, and to acquire,
construct, equip, furnish, repair, remodel, renovate, enlarge, improve, or
administer artistic or cultural facilities.
(Res. 20-80, passed 8-12-80)
§ 33.57 BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   The board shall be composed of 11 trustees who shall serve without
compensation, provided that with the approval of the board, trustees may be
reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
   (B)   The city commission of the City of Dayton shall appoint three
trustees; the board of county commissioners of the County of Montgomery shall
appoint three trustees; the city council of Kettering shall appoint one
trustee; and one trustee shall be appointed by the southern members and one
trustee shall be appointed by the northern members, all in accordance with
division (C) below.
   (C)   The appointment of trustees by the southern members and the northern
members shall be accomplished by rotating the appointment power as provided in
this paragraph. With respect to the southern members, initially the legislative
authority of the City of Centerville shall appoint one trustee. Thereafter, the
appointment power shall rotate among the legislative authorities of the
southern members in alphabetical order. With respect to the northern members,
initially the legislative authority of the City of Trotwood shall appoint one
trustee. Thereafter, the appointment power shall rotate among the legislative
authorities of the northern members in alphabetical order. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the legislative authority of any southern member or northern member
may, by written notice to the board given at least 90 days prior to the
commencement of a trustee term for which the member has the appointment power,
waive the right of the member to appoint the trustee for such term, whereupon
the appointment power shall vest in the member next having the appointment
power as herein provided.
   (D)   In addition to the trustees appointed as stated above, there shall be
two trustees appointed in the following manner, which trustees shall be persons
who devote a major portion of their time to practicing, performing, or teaching
any of the arts or who are professional administrators in any field of the arts
or cultural heritage. The city commission of the City of Dayton and the board
of county commissioners of the County of Montgomery shall each propose one of
such trustees for consideration by the other four members which have appointed
or have the power to appoint trustees at such time under division (B) above,
and each such proposed trustee shall be appointed by the proposer only if the
proposed trustee is approved, prior to the appointment, by at least two of the
other members.
   (E)   The initially appointed trustees shall serve staggered terms of one,
two, and three years as follows: of the trustees appointed by the city
commission of the City of Dayton, one shall serve a term of one year and two
shall serve terms of two years; of the trustees appointed by the board of
county commissioners of the County of Montgomery, one shall serve a term of one
year and two shall serve terms of two years; and the trustees appointed by
Kettering, the southern members and the northern members shall each serve terms
of three years. The trustees initially appointed in accordance with division
(D) above shall serve a term of one year. Thereafter, each trustee shall serve
a term of three years, except that any person appointed to fill a vacancy shall
be appointed only to the unexpired term. Any appointed trustee is eligible for
reappointment. The initial trustees shall be appointed within 60 days after the
creation of the district by all of the members. The term of each trustee of the
board shall be deemed to run from the date of his appointment. The legislative
authority of each member may at any time remove any trustee appointed by the
legislative authority.
   (F)   All trustees of the board shall be persons who are qualified electors
in the district's territory and who have broad knowledge and experience in the
arts and cultural heritage. Each legislative authority with appointing power
shall consider for appointment as trustees of the board, but need not appoint,
such persons as are nominated by area art councils, as defined in R.C. §
757.03, located within the district, provided that all such persons shall meet
the qualifications specified in the first sentence of this division (F).
   (G)   If any trustee resigns, expires, becomes disqualified, or is removed
from office, the legislative authority of the member which appointed the
trustee shall promptly appoint a person meeting the requirements of this
section to fill the vacancy.
   (H)   Upon the expiration of his term, a trustee shall remain in office
until a successor trustee is selected by the appropriate legislative authority.
   (I)   A majority of the board shall constitute a quorum, the affirmative
vote of which is necessary for any action taken by the district. No vacancy in
the board shall impair the rights of a quorum to exercise all rights and
perform all the duties of the district.
   (J)   Each trustee of the board, before entering upon his official duties,
shall take and subscribe to an oath or affirmation that he will honestly,
faithfully, and impartially perform the duties of his office.
   (K)   After each trustee of the board has taken the oath required by this
section the board shall meet and organize by electing one of its trustees as
president and another as vice-president, who shall hold their respective
offices until the next annual meeting of the board. At each annual meeting
thereafter the board shall elect from its membership a president and a vice-
president who shall serve for a term of one year.
   (L)   The board shall appoint and fix the compensation of an executive
director, who shall be the fiscal officer and shall not be a trustee of the
board and who shall serve at the pleasure of the board.
(Res. 20-80, passed 8-12-80)
§ 33.58 POWERS OF THE BOARD.
   All the power and authority granted to the district shall be vested in and
exercised by the board, which shall manage and conduct the affairs of the
district. The board shall, within the limitations of R.C. Ch. 3381, provide by
rules the procedure for its actions, the manner of selection of its executive
director, and other employees, their titles, terms of office, compensation,
duties, number, and qualifications, and any other lawful subject necessary or
desirable to the operation and administration of the district and the exercise
of the powers granted to it.
(Res. 20-80, passed 8-12-80)
§ 33.59 POWERS OF THE DISTRICT.
   Upon the creation of the district and upon the qualifying of the board and
the election of a president and vice-president, the district shall exercise in
its own name all the rights, powers, and duties vested in and confirmed upon it
by R.C. Ch. 3381.
(Res. 20-80, passed 8-12-80)
§ 33.60 EXPENSES.
   (A)   On or before November 1 of each year, the district shall adopt and
transmit to each member a budget for the following calendar year. The budget
shall determine the estimated operating expenses of the district to be borne by
the members (local expenses) during the calendar year. Revenues received by the
district from any tax levied pursuant to R.C. § 3381.16 shall be applied to
payment of local expenses before apportionment of local expenses among members.
Until any tax is levied, local expenses in any calendar year to be borne by the
members shall not exceed $50,000.
   (B)   For any calendar year, local expenses shall be borne in the
proportions set forth herein by the members as have appointed or have the power
to appoint, pursuant to §
33.57 (B), trustees who will serve during the calendar year. Each of the
members shall pay to the district local expenses up to a maximum of $.02 per
capita of the population of the member, provided that for purposes of this
sentence the population of Montgomery County shall be deemed to be the same as
the population of the City of Dayton. Any additional amount of local expenses
shall be borne and paid equally by the City of Dayton and the County of
Montgomery if, and only to the extent, provided in a resolution of the board of
trustees adopted with the affirmative vote of the six trustees appointed by the
City of Dayton and the County of Montgomery pursuant to §
33.57 (B). All payments under this paragraph shall be made quarterly on or
before January 1, April 1, July 1, and October 1 of each year. For the purposes
of this paragraph, a member shall not be deemed to have the power to appoint a
trustee if it has waived the power pursuant to §
33.57 (D).
   (C)   Each member of the district may determine to provide its share of
local expenses from any funds authorized by law to be used for these purposes.
   (D)   For the calendar year 1980, each member shall pay to the district an
amount of money agreed upon between the district and the members. The payments
shall be made in equal installments on January 2, and July 1, 1980.
   (E)   Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, no member shall be
obligated to bear any local expenses for any calendar year after calendar year
1982.
(Res. 20-80, passed 8-12-80)
§ 33.61 DISSOLUTION.
   The district may be terminated and dissolved at any time by the adoption of
a resolution of termination and dissolution by either the legislative authority
of any member having a population of at least 55,000, or the board and by the
legislative authority of each member. The resolution of termination and
dissolution shall fix a date on which the district shall be terminated and
shall become effective upon the filing of a copy of each resolution or
ordinance adopting the resolution with the clerk of the legislative authority
of each member. In addition, the district shall automatically terminate on the
tenth anniversary of its creation unless by that date a tax levy shall have
been authorized by the qualified electors pursuant to R.C. § 3381.16 (A) or
3381.16 (B). Before any termination date, the district shall proceed to wind up
its affairs, fulfill or discharge its contracts, collect its assets, sell its
assets for cash at public or private sale, discharge or pay its liabilities,
make distributions to arts or cultural organizations to the extent practicable,
and do all other acts appropriate to liquidate its business. On the termination
date, the district, after paying or adequately providing for the payment of its
liabilities, shall distribute the remaining assets of the district (if any) to
the members in such a manner as may be agreed upon by the members. After the
termination date, the district, its trustees, officers, and members may
continue to function for the purpose of winding up the affairs of the district
in the same manner as if the termination had not taken place. In so doing, the
trustees shall not be deemed to be trustees for the assets of the district and
title to the assets shall remain in the district until transferred by it. Until
the winding up of the affairs of the district is completed, this resolution and
the bylaws of the district shall continue in full force and effect.
(Res. 20-80, passed 8-12-80; Am. Res. 12-85, passed 10-8-85)
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
§ 33.70 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Department of Planning and Community Development shall be under the
direction of the Director of Planning and Community Development who shall be
responsible to the City Manager. The Director of Planning and Community
Development shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Develop and maintain an up-to-date Comprehensive Plan for the city
including associated documents such as the zoning code and zoning map, housing
data, existing land use data, transportation plan and land use plan.
   (B)   Develop and maintain an up-to-date subdivision ordinance and enforce
the development standards set forth therein.
   (C)   Develop and implement various community development programs to
improve the quality of life in the city including such programs as downtown
revitalization, housing rehabilitation, and the community development block
grant program.
   (D)   Develop and maintain an up-to-date sign code.
   (E)   Be responsible for the performance by the Division of Code
Enforcement, of the duties assigned to it by Charter, by law, by this
administrative code and by the City Manager.
   (F)   Be responsible for the performance by the Division of Building
Inspection, of the duties assigned to it by Charter, by law, by this
administrative code and by the City Manager.
   (G)   Be responsible for the performance by the Division of Zoning
Administration, of the duties assigned to it by Charter, by law, by this
administrative code and by the City Manager.
   (H)   Formulate and recommend to the City Manager procedures, rules and
regulations for the government and operation of the department and its
divisions for his/her approval.
   (I)   Supervise the assignment of all department and division personnel.
   (J)   Provide for the training and instruction of all department and
division personnel.
   (K)   Act as liaison officer in the cooperation by the city with other
planning and community development agencies.
   (L)   Perform such other duties as the City Manager may prescribe.
(Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81; Am. Ord. 3643, passed 3-12-19)
§ 33.71 BOND OF PLANNING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR.
   The Director of Planning and Community Development shall furnish bond, as
required by the Charter, in the amount of $10,000, the premium for which shall
be paid by the city. The bond shall be for the protection of the city and the
public against loss due to acts or omissions of the Director of Planning and
Community Development.
(Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81)
§ 33.72 DIVISION OF CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   The Director of Planning and Community Development shall direct and
supervise a Division of Code Enforcement, to be administered by a Chief Code
Enforcement Officer. The Division of Code Enforcement may consist of other code
enforcement officers appointed or assigned to serve under the direct
supervision of the Chief Code Enforcement Officer. The Chief Code Enforcement
Officer and those officers assigned under his/her direction shall perform the
following duties:
   (A)   Investigate violations, complaints of violations and enforce the
provisions of those laws, ordinances and resolutions conferred upon them by the
Ohio Revised Code, the Ohio Administrative Code, the City Charter, and the City
Manager, which shall include but not be limited to the Property Maintenance
Code, the Zoning Code, the Sign Code, and the Public Works Code.
   (B)   Perform such other duties pertaining to code enforcement as the City
Manager or the Director of Planning and Community Development may prescribe.
(Ord. 3643, passed 3-12-19)
§ 33.73 DIVISION OF BUILDING INSPECTION.
   The Director of Planning and Community Development shall direct and
supervise a Division of Building Inspection, to be administered by a Chief
Building Official properly certified by the State of Ohio. The Division of
Building Inspection may consist of other state certified code enforcement
officers appointed or assigned to serve under the direct supervision of the
Chief Building Official. The Chief Building Official and those officers
assigned under his/her direction shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Receive applications for building permits, review proposed plans for
buildings and determine compliance of prepared plans with the building code of
the city and/or state, and issue permits upon applications complying with the
building code of the city and/or state, individually and with the assistance of
other agencies with whom the city may now or hereafter contract to perform
inspection services.
   (B)   Make inspections of premises and buildings for the purpose of ensuring
compliance with the building code of the city and/or state to ensure the
safety, health and welfare of the residents of the community:
   (C)   Prepare reports documenting division activities for certification of
the division by the state.
   (D)   Perform such other duties pertaining to the Division of Building
Inspection as the City Manager or the Director of Planning and Community
Development may prescribe.
(Ord. 3643, passed 3-12-19)
§ 33.74 DIVISION OF ZONING ADMINISTRATION.
   The Director of Planning and Community Development shall direct and
supervise a Division of Zoning Administration, to be administered by a designee
of the Director of Planning and Community Development. The Division of Zoning
Administration shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Receive applications for zoning permits, and review such applications
to determine compliance with the zoning code or sign code of the city.
   (B)   Issue permits for applications complying with the zoning code or sign
code.
   (C)   Make inspections of premises and buildings for the purpose of
enforcing compliance with the zoning code or sign code.
   (D)   Issue zoning certificates upon final approval of zoning permit
applications.
   (E)   Perform such other duties pertaining to the Division of Zoning
Administration as the City Manager or the Director of Planning and Community
Development may prescribe.
(Ord. 3643, passed 3-12-19)
DEPARTMENT OF PERSONNEL
§ 33.80 DUTIES.
   The Department of Personnel shall be under the direction of the Personnel
Director who shall be responsible to the City Manager. The Personnel Director
shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Establish and maintain a merit system as required by the Charter and
carry out such other personnel functions as directed by the Charter.
   (B)   Establish and maintain an up-to-date personnel rules and regulations,
including a classification and pay plan.
   (C)   Perform such other duties as the City Manager may prescribe to the
Personnel Director. (Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81)
§ 33.81 BOND OF DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL.
   The Personnel Director shall furnish bond, as required by the Charter, in
the amount of $10,000, the premium for which shall be paid by the city. The
bond shall be for the protection of the city and the public against loss due to
acts or omissions of the Personnel Director. (Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81)
BOARD OF WATER AND SEWER CHARGE ADJUSTMENT
§ 33.90 ESTABLISHMENT.
   For provisions regarding the Board of Water and Sewer Charge Adjustment, see
§
50.30.
ATTENDANCE POLICY FOR BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 33.100 ESTABLISHMENT, EFFECT OF POLICY.
   (A)   The following attendance policy is hereby adopted and made applicable
to any board or commission of the city which has not heretofore adopted an
attendance policy. This policy shall in no way inhibit a board or commission
which has been granted the power or authority to adopt its own rules and
regulations from adopting its own attendance policy, so long as the policy
adopted is in substantial compliance with the policy stated herein.
   (B)   Boards and commissions which have previously adopted rules and
regulations shall submit a copy of their rules and regulations and any
amendments thereto to the City Manager in order to have those rules and
regulations recognized for the purposes of this subchapter.
   (C)   The City Manager shall provide a copy of this subchapter to all
present members of boards and commissions and to all members appointed
subsequent to its adoption.
(Res. 3-83, passed 1-11-83)
§ 33.101 NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   Each board or commission which holds regular meetings shall publish a
list of its regular meeting dates for the current calendar year and shall
provide the list to each of its members no later than January 10 of each
calendar year. Failure to publish the list does not excuse attendance at any
regular meeting.
   (B)   In the case of those boards and commissions which do not meet on a
regular basis, all members shall be notified of a meeting by regular mail
postmarked five days prior to each meeting, or by phone 24 hours prior to the
meeting; or in the manner otherwise prescribed by the charter, ordinances, or
resolutions of the city or any previously adopted rules by that board or
commission.
   (C)   Any board or commission may hold a special meeting subject only to the
notice requirements specified above.
(Res. 3-83, passed 1-11-83)
§ 33.102 UNEXCUSED ABSENCES.
   (A)   Attendance is required at all regular and properly noted special
meetings of boards and commissions. Any member who accumulates three unexcused
absences during any calendar year shall be considered to have tendered his/her
resignation from that board or commission to the City Council, which
resignation shall be subject to City Council's acceptance. It shall be the
responsibility of the secretary or chairperson of the board or commission to
provide written notice to the City Council when a member has accumulated three
unexcused absences within a calendar year. The notification may be affected by
sending the notice to the City Manager.
   (B)   An UNEXCUSED ABSENCE is defined as any absence from a regular or
properly noticed special meeting for which the member has not notified the
chairperson or secretary of the board or commission or City Manager's office in
advance of the meeting of his/her inability to attend the meeting. The
unexcused absence shall be noted in the minutes of the meeting along with the
names of those present and the names of those members who are excused.
   (C)   Any member of a board or commission who is absent from a special
meeting that has not been properly noticed as specified above shall not be
considered to have accumulated an unexcused absence for the purpose of this
subchapter.
(Res. 3-83, passed 1-11-83)
MUNICIPAL RECREATION BOARD
§ 33.110 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of the Municipal Recreation Board shall be as follows:
   (A)   To promote a comprehensive recreation program including various
recreational areas and facilities for the citizens of the city;
   (B)   To make recommendations to Council on matters concerning parks,
recreation and leisure activities; and
   (C)   To act as a voice for the Parks and Recreation Department in the
community and a voice for the community in the Parks and Recreation Department.
(Ord. 34-90, passed 12-11-90)
§ 33.111 MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   (A)   Meetings shall be held on the third Tuesday of each month. Special
meetings may be called by the Chairperson of the Recreation Board or the Parks
and Recreation Director.
   (B)   A quorum shall consist of at least three members, in addition to the
presence of the Parks and Recreation Director. If three or more members are
present at a called meeting, they may take action on any subject which rightly
may come before this board.
(Ord. 34-90, passed 12-11-90)
§ 33.112 OFFICERS.
   The officers of the Board shall be a chairperson, who shall conduct the
meetings of the Board, a vice-chairperson to serve in the absence of the
chairperson, and a secretary to keep accurate minutes of all meetings. The
officers are to be elected by the Board for one-year terms at the regular
meeting in January.
(Ord. 34-90, passed 12-11-90)
§ 33.113 CAPACITY OF BOARD.
   The Recreation Board serves in an advisory capacity. Its advice is to be
reflected in minutes of its meetings or in other written presentations which it
may choose to submit. The Board may recommend action to City Council or the
Parks and Recreation Director but may not assume any legislative or
administrative authority in the operation of the Parks and Recreation
Department.
(Ord. 34-90, passed 12-11-90)
BUSINESS ADVISORY COUNCIL
§ 33.120 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Business Advisory Council is established for the city.
(Res. 39-94, passed 10-25-94)
§ 33.121 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this Advisory Council shall be as follows:
   (A)   To review and make specific recommendations to City Council concerning
programs, policies and capital improvements which have an impact on businesses
in the city.
   (B)   To advance, encourage and promote the economic development of the City
of West Carrollton.
   (C)   To sponsor, promote, coordinate and encourage cooperation between
businesses in the city and local government to ensure competitiveness.
   (D)   To guide development of an aggressive economic development marketing
program for the city.
   (E)   To guide the development of a long-term strategic economic development
plan for the city.
   (F)   To generate city-wide interest, pride and action related to economic
development.
(Res. 39-94, passed 10-25-94)
§ 33.122 MEMBERSHIP; COMPENSATION.
   The Business Advisory Council shall consist of seven members who conduct
business in the city and shall be appointed by the Council in a manner to
provide broad representation of the types and sizes of businesses located in
the city. Members of the Advisory Council shall serve without compensation.
(Res. 39-94, passed 10-25-94)
§ 33.123 TERMS.
   All members of the Advisory Council shall serve for a term of two years,
except that three members of the Advisory Council first appointed shall serve
for one year in order to provide for overlapping of terms. The appointment of
new members to the Advisory Council shall be made effective on January 1 of
each year.
(Res. 39-94, passed 10-25-94)
§ 33.124 RULES; OFFICERS.
   The Advisory Council shall adopt its own rules and elect its officers
annually.
(Res. 39-94, passed 10-25-94)
TECHNOLOGY ADVISORY GROUP
§ 33.130 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The West Carrollton Technology Advisory Group is hereby established for the
city.
(Res. 22-97, passed 5-27-97)
§ 33.131 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of the Technology Advisory Group shall be as follows:
   (A)   To guide and advise City Council and city staff concerning programs,
policies, and technological improvements which have or may have an impact in
the city.
   (B)   To increase citizen/community involvement in the application of
technology.
   (C)   To increase cooperative efforts with other area/regional resources.
(Res. 22-97, passed 5-27-97)
§ 33.132 MEMBERSHIP; COMPENSATION.
   The Technology Advisory Group shall consist of nine members appointed by the
Council in a manner to provide a broad range of technical expertise. Members of
the advisory group shall serve without compensation.
(Res. 22-97, passed 5-27-97)
§ 33.133 TERMS.
   All members of the advisory group shall serve for a term of four years,
except that four members of the advisory group first appointed shall serve for
two years in order to provide for overlapping terms. The appointment of new
members to the advisory group shall be made effective on January 1st.
(Res. 22-97, passed 5-27-97)
§ 33.134 RULES; OFFICERS.
   The advisory group shall adopt its own rules and elect its officers
annually.
(Res. 22-97, passed 5-27-97)
INDEPENDENCE DAY FESTIVAL COMMITTEE
§ 33.135 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The West Carrollton Independence Day Festival Committee is hereby
established to organize, promote, and implement this annual event.
(Res. 14-2006. Passed 5-9-06.)
§ 33.136 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of the Independence Day Festival Committee shall be as
follows:
   (A)   To work closely with community volunteers from throughout the
community to organize and implement this annual event.
   (B)   To generate Citywide interest, pride and involvement related to the
Independence Day Festival. (Res. 14-2006. Passed 5-9-06.)
§ 33.137 MEMBERSHIP; COMPENSATION.
   The Independence Day Festival Committee shall consist of nine members
appointed by the City Council. Members of the Independence Day Festival
Committee shall serve without compensation.
(Res. 14-2006. Passed 5-9-06.)
§ 33.138 TERMS.
   All members of the Independence Day Festival Committee shall serve for a
term of three years, except for those first appointed, three members will be to
a one-year term, three members to a two-year term, and three members to a
three-year term; this is to provide for overlapping terms. The appointment of
new members to the Independence Day Festival Committee shall be made effective
on January 1. The Independence Day Festival Committee is encouraged to form
subcommittees and to invite board participation by volunteers to further the
success of this annual event. (Res. 14-2006. Passed 5-9- 06.)
CHAPTER 34: EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
Section
Personnel Provisions; Appeals Board
34.01   Title and purpose
34.02   Regular status
34.03   Recruitment and selection
34.04   Eligible lists
34.045   Removal from eligible lists
34.05   Promotional examinations
34.06   Certifications and appointments
34.07   Temporary appointments
34.08   Provisional appointments
34.09   Probation
34.10   Absences, hours of work and sick leave
34.11   Discipline
34.12   Types of disciplinary action
34.13   Procedure in disciplinary action
34.14   Personnel appeals board
34.15   Reductions; layoffs
Employment Provisions
34.20   Blanket bond
34.21   Residency requirements
34.215   Premium pay
34.22   Overtime pay
34.225   Compensatory time
34.23   Holidays
34.24   Comprehensive major medical insurance
34.25   Group life insurance
34.255   Accidental death and dismemberment insurance
34.26   Injury leave and wage continuation pay
34.27   Sick leave credit
34.28   Vacations
34.29   Jury duty
34.30   Military leave
34.31   Pay period
34.32   Supplemental rules
34.33   Bereavement leave
34.34   Reimbursement for lost or damaged personal property
34.341   Tuition reimbursement
34.342   Deferred compensation
34.343   Pick up of contributions
34.344   Purchase of service credit in the Public Employees Retirement System
Collective Bargaining
34.35   Definitions
34.36   Registration procedure prior to recognition
34.37   Procedures for establishing representation units
34.38   Certification as a recognized employee organization
34.39   Rules and regulations
34.40   Impasse resolution
34.41   Construction of §§ 34.35 through 34.42
34.42   Prohibition against strikes against city
PERSONNEL PROVISIONS; APPEALS BOARD
§ 34.01 TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known as the Personnel Chapter and it shall give
effect to and augment the provisions of the City Charter pertaining to
personnel. It is the policy of the city as a charter, home-rule-municipality
established under the constitution and laws of the state, that this chapter and
such rules as may be adopted in accordance with the provisions herein shall
supercede all civil service laws passed by the state. This shall be true even
when this chapter and such rules are silent on a particular topic which is
included in the state civil service laws.
   (B)   Certain provisions of this chapter shall only apply to personnel in
the nonexempt positions of the city. Nonexempt positions are those which have
not been exempted from the civil service of the municipality or the competitive
examination requirements. In accordance with the provisions of §
10.02 of the City Charter, the following positions are exempt from the civil
service of the municipality and the open competitive examination requirements:
      (1)   Members of Council;
      (2)   The Clerk of Council;
      (3)   The City Manager;
      (4)   The Directors of Departments;
      (5)   The Secretary to the City Manager;
      (6)   The Assistant to the City Manager;
      (7)   Members of Boards and Commissions appointed by the Council;
advisory committees appointed by the City Manager;
      (8)   Those positions requiring peculiar and exceptional qualifications
of a scientific, managerial, professional or educational character;
      (9)   Unskilled laborers;
      (10)   Seasonal, provisional, temporary, or part-time employees.
   (C)   In addition to the positions specified in division (B) above, other
positions may be exempted from the civil service or the competitive examination
requirements on the determination of the City Manager and the approval by the
Personnel Appeals Board.
   (D)   The City Manager shall appoint a suitably qualified person to serve
part or full time as Personnel Officer. The Personnel Officer shall: (1)
Conduct recruitment of qualified persons; (2) Prepare, schedule and hold
examinations; (3) Create eligible lists from results of examinations; (4)
Certify eligibles to appointing officers; (5) Classify positions and establish
job specifications; (6) Certify payrolls; (7) Develop and conduct training
programs; (8) Prepare and recommend to the City Manager for approval and
publication, necessary rules to establish and maintain the merit system in the
municipality; (9) Perform such other duties relating to personnel as the City
Manager may direct. The Personnel Officer may also be known by a different
tile, such as Personnel Director, Human Resources Manager or Assistant City
Manager or any such other designation as the City Manager may determine.
(Ord. 3760, passed 11-28-23)
§ 34.02 REGULAR STATUS.
When this chapter becomes effective, all persons then holding positions not
included among those exempted by the city Charter shall have a regular status
if:
   (A)   They were employed in positions on the date of passage of this chapter
(May 14, 1968) and have served their full probationary period.
   (B)   They shall serve a probationary period of one year or any other period
as may be prescribed by this chapter for the position held.
('70 Code, § 153.02; amend. Ord. 3760, passed 11-28-23)
§ 34.03 RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION.
   (A)   Original appointments and promotions to vacancies to the civil service
of the municipality shall be made solely on the basis of merit and fitness
demonstrated insofar as practicable by open competitive examinations or other
evidence of competence, except where open competitive examinations for
particular vacancies may be dispensed with as provided by the City Charter and
this chapter.
   (B)   Each open competitive examination shall be publicly announced by the
Personnel Director in such media as the Director may deem expedient. The
announcement shall specify the title of the position classification for which
the examination is to be held; the time, place, and manner of making
application; the closing date for applications; the time and place for the
examination; the minimum qualifications for the position as established by the
Personnel Director and approved by the City Manager; and any other information
deemed pertinent by the Personnel Director.
   (C)   Application shall be made on the form prescribed by the Personnel
Director, and the Director shall conduct such investigation as may be deemed
necessary to verify the truth of the statements made therein and to determine
the qualifications of the applicant. The Director may reject any application
which, on its face, indicates that the applicant does not possess the minimum
qualifications established for the position classification and may also reject
any application which is received after the closing date established for the
examination. In addition to the above, the Personnel Director may refuse to
examine an applicant or, after an examination, disqualify an applicant from
further consideration if the applicant makes a false statement of any material
fact, practices or attempts to practice any deliberate deception or fraud in
the selection process, or for such other reasons as may be provided in the
rules promulgated by the Personnel Director and approved by the City Manager.
   (D)   All examinations shall be of such a type that will fairly assess the
relative abilities and aptitudes of the candidates to efficiently and
effectively perform the duties of the position classification for which the
examination is given. The examinations may be written, oral, physical,
psychological, a demonstration of skill, an evaluation of training and
experiences, or any combination thereof. The Personnel Director shall determine
the nature of the examinations and the weight to be given to each part. The
Director shall see that the examinations are graded, taking care to preserve
the anonymity of the candidates in the written portion until grading is
completed.
('70 Code, § 153.03; amend. Ord. 2297, passed 12-22-81; amend. Ord. 3760,
passed 11-28-23)
§ 34.04 ELIGIBLE LISTS.
   (A)   From the results of each entry-level and promotional examination, the
Personnel Director shall prepare and certify an eligible list for the positions
for which the examination was conducted. All candidates receiving a passing
score on the examination are to be ranked on the eligible list in the order of
their total scores. In the event two or more candidates receive the same total
score on the examination, they shall be placed in the same position on the
eligible list and the tie shall be noted.
   (B)   Reemployment.
      (1)   In the event it becomes necessary to lay off city employees for any
reason, the names of the persons laid off shall be placed on a reemployment
eligible list for the classification involved. The names on the list shall be
ranked in order of classification seniority and each name shall remain on the
list for a maximum period of one year (except as provided in division (2)
below) unless such eligibility is extended by the Personnel Director.
      (2)   Each name on a reemployment eligible list for the classification of
police officer shall remain on such list for a maximum period of 15 months
unless the eligibility is extended by the Personnel Director.
   (C)   All other eligible lists shall be valid for a minimum period of one
year from the original date of certification unless exhausted prior to that
time. The validity of such lists may be extended for an additional period, up
to one year, by order of the Personnel Director.
('70 Code, § 153.04; Am. Ord. 2297, passed 12-22-81; Am. Ord. 2463, passed 9-
11-84; Am. Ord. 3760, passed 11-28-23)
§ 34.045 REMOVAL FROM ELIGIBLE LISTS.
   (A)   If, after an eligible list has been established, it is determined that
any candidate whose name appears on the eligible list has obtained a place
thereon by deception or fraud either in the application or in the selection
process, or that the candidate does not possess the minimum qualifications
established for the position, or that the candidate is subject to
disqualification under the provisions of §
34.03 (C), the name of the candidate may be removed from the eligible list by
order of the Personnel Director. The Personnel Director may also remove the
name of any candidate who indicates that they are no longer interested in the
position, who declines to be interviewed for the position, or who refuses to
accept appointment after being certified. Furthermore, the Personnel Director
may remove the name of any candidate whom, after a reasonable effort, has been
unable to be contacted by mail or phone to determine the candidate's interest
in a position.
   (B)   The Personnel Director may also remove the name of a person from the
eligible list if that person has been certified three times to the same
department head for the same or similar positions and has not been appointed.
(Ord. 2297, passed 12-22-81; amend. Ord. 3760, passed 11-28-23)
§ 34.05 PROMOTIONAL EXAMINATIONS.
   (A)   The Personnel Director, subject to the approval of the City Manager,
shall designate which classes of positions in the civil service are entry-level
positions and which are promotional positions. Such designation shall be based
upon an analysis of the relative job requirements as well as an examination of
the logical career paths within the organization.
   (B)   A promotional examination shall be restricted to present employees
unless the City Council, on the recommendation of the City Manager, adopts a
resolution opening the examination to candidates outside of the municipal
service. The promotional examination shall be competitive except where the
Personnel Director determines that there are three or less qualified persons
who are interested in the position, in which case the examination may be
noncompetitive.
   (C)   Eligibility for promotional examinations shall be determined by the
Personnel Director, subject to the approval of the City Manager, after
consideration of qualifications and length of service. For the Police Division,
eligibility requirements shall include a minimum of 12 months of service in the
next lower rank unless otherwise recommended by the Personnel Director and
approved by the City Manager.
   (D)   Where appropriate, promotional examinations shall give consideration
to the candidate's record of prior performance and seniority, as may be
provided in the rules promulgated by the Personnel Director and approved by the
City Manager.
   (E)   All candidates receiving a passing score on the examination are to be
ranked on the promotional eligible list in the order of their total scores.
('70 Code, § 153.05; amend. Ord. 2297, passed 12-22-81)
§ 34.06 CERTIFICATIONS AND APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever a vacancy is to be filled in the civil service of the city,
the appropriate department head shall request the Personnel Director to certify
the names of the persons standing highest on the applicable eligible list. If
no list exists for the particular position classification, the Personnel
Director shall schedule an examination at the earliest possible convenience to
establish an eligible list.
   (B)   If the vacancy exists in an entry-level position, the Personnel
Director shall certify the names of the top five candidates including ties,
remaining on the original appointment eligible list. If more than one position
is to be filled, the Personnel Director may certify a list of names that is
equal to the number of vacancies plus four, which list shall also include ties.
If one or more provisional, probationary or permanent full-time city employee
receives a passing score on the examination, the name or names of those
employees shall also be certified. When an eligible list is reduced to less
than 5 names, or when the list has expired, the Personnel Director may conduct
an examination to prepare a new list.
   (C)   If the vacancy exists in a position to be filled through promotion,
the Personnel Director shall certify the names of the top three candidates,
including ties, remaining on the promotional eligible list. If more than one
position is to filled, the Personnel Director may certify a list of names that
is equal to the number of vacancies plus 2, which list shall also include ties.
   (D)   If the vacancy exists in a position for which there is a current
reemployment eligible list, the Personnel Director shall certify the name of
the candidate in the highest position remaining on that list. The reemployment
list shall expire or be exhausted before names are certified from any other
appointment list pertaining to that position classification.
   (E)   Whenever a certified eligible indicates a unwillingness to accept
appointment or has otherwise had their name removed from the eligible list,
leaving fewer candidates from which the department head may choose than can
normally be certified under divisions (A) through (D) of this section, the
Personnel Director shall then certify to the department head the name in the
next position on the eligible list.
   (F)   After receiving the names of those eligible for appointment to a
vacancy, the department head shall make a selection and shall notify the
Personnel Director of the person recommended for appointment. Although the
responsibility of making the recommendation shall lie primarily with the
department head, any such recommendation must be approved by the City Manager,
as the appointing authority under the City Charter, before becoming official.
The Personnel Director shall see that the person appointed is placed on the
payroll and shall restore to the eligibility list the names of the other
persons who were certified but not appointed.
('70 Code, § 153.06; amend. Ord. 2193, passed 2-26-80; amend. Ord. 2297, passed
12-22-81; amend. Ord. 3760, passed 11-28-23)
§ 34.07 TEMPORARY APPOINTMENTS.
   Whenever an emergency exists which requires that a vacancy be filled on a
temporary basis in order to maintain public services, the appropriate
department head may recommend to the City Manager the appointment of a person
qualified to perform the duties of the position. On approval of the City
Manager, the appointment shall become official. However, no temporary
appointment shall be for a period longer than 60 days unless otherwise approved
by the City Manager. ('70 Code, § 153.07; amend. Ord. 2297, passed 12-22-81)
§ 34.08 PROVISIONAL APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever a vacancy occurs in the civil service of the city and there
is no current eligible list from which a certification can be made, the
Personnel Director shall so inform the appropriate department head. If, in the
judgment of the department head, it is not expedient to await the establishment
of a list, he shall request the Personnel Director to submit to him the
application of one or more persons who possess the minimum qualifications
established for the position to be filled. On review of the applications, the
department head may recommend to the City Manager the appointment of one of the
candidates. On approval by the City Manager, the appointment shall become
official.
   (B)   A provisional appointment shall not last longer than three months,
during which time an examination shall be given and an eligible list
established. The name of the provisional employee shall be certified to the
department head along with the names of the other top candidates on the
eligible list, provided that the provisional employee receives a passing score
on the examination. The probationary period of a provisional appointee
subsequently appointed as a probationary employee may be shortened by the
length of time spent in a provisional status. ('70 Code, § 153.08; amend. Ord.
2297, passed 12-22-81)
§ 34.09 PROBATION.
   (A)   With the exception of appointments to positions in the Police Division
and Fire Division, employees appointed from original appointment eligible lists
and from promotional eligible lists shall serve a minimum probationary period
of six months. Employees appointed to positions in the Police and Fire
Divisions shall serve a minimum probationary period of 12 months. During the
probationary period, the performance and conduct of the employee shall be
subject to close scrutiny and evaluation.
   (B)   A probationary employee may be removed or demoted at any time during
the probationary period upon written notice by the City Manager to the
employee. Any such removal or demotion shall not be subject to appeal through
any grievance procedure or to the Personnel Appeals Board.
   (C)   A probationary employee shall be granted regular full-time status
after satisfactory completion of the probationary period.
('70 Code, § 153.09; amend. Ord. 2297, passed 12-22-81; amend. Ord. 3760,
passed 11-28-23)
§ 34.10 ABSENCES, HOURS OF WORK, AND SICK LEAVE.
   The Personnel Director may adopt rules prescribing hours of work and the
conditions and length of time for which leaves of absence with pay and leaves
of absence without pay may be granted. Such rules shall include, but shall not
be limited to holidays, personal leave days, vacations, sick leave, injury
leave, maternity leave, bereavement leave, civil leave, and military leave. The
rules, which shall be effective from and after the time that they are approved
by the City Manager, shall supplement and not be in conflict with any valid
ordinances pertaining to such leaves.
('70 Code, § 153.10; amend. Ord. 2297, passed 12-22-81)
§ 34.11 DISCIPLINE.
   (A)   The tenure of every full-time, regular officer, or employee in the
nonexempt service of the city shall be during good behavior and efficient
service, but any such officer or employee may be removed or otherwise
disciplined for just cause, including but not limited to incompetency,
inefficiency, dishonesty, drunkenness, immoral conduct, insubordination,
discourteous treatment of the public, neglect of duty, violation of the
provisions of the City Charter or the ordinances of the city, violation of the
laws of the state or the United States of America, violation of the rules of
the City Manager or the Personnel Director or a department head, or any other
acts of misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance in office.
   (B)   The Personnel Director shall promulgate rules which shall provide
elaboration on the reasons for which employees may be removed or otherwise
disciplined. Such rules shall be effective from and after the time that they
are approved by the City Manager.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the right of the
city to lay off or separate any officer or employee from the nonexempt service
in the event any position is abolished or for lack of work or lack of funds.
('70 Code, § 153.11; amend. Ord. 2297, passed 12-22-81; amend. Ord. 3760,
passed 11-28-23)
§ 34.12 TYPES OF DISCIPLINARY ACTION.
   Disciplinary action for full-time, regular officers, or employees in the
nonexempt service of the city shall normally consist of one or more of the
following, based on the recurrence or magnitude of the violation:
   (A)   Informal reprimand;
   (B)   Formal written reprimand which becomes a part of the employee's
personnel record;
   (C)   Suspension from duty without pay for a period of not more than 3 days;
   (D)   Suspension from duty without pay for a period exceeding 3 days;
   (E)   Reduction in rank and salary;
   (F)   Dismissal.
('70 Code, § 153.12; amend. Ord. 2297, passed 12-22-81; amend. Ord. 3760,
passed 11-28-23)
§ 34.13 PROCEDURE IN DISCIPLINARY ACTION.
   The Personnel Director shall promulgate rules which shall prescribe the
procedure to be followed in applying discipline, including the person or
persons responsible for such discipline, and the method of appealing
disciplinary actions. Such rules, which shall be effective from and after the
time that they are approved by the City Manager, may include any other
provisions relative to discipline as may be deemed necessary by the Personnel
Director and the City Manager to supplement the provisions of this chapter.
('70 Code, § 153.13; amend. Ord. 2297, passed 12-22-81)
§ 34.14 PERSONNEL APPEALS BOARD.
   (A)   Any full-time, regular officer, or employee in the civil service, who
has been suspended in excess of 3 days, reduced in rank, or removed from their
position, may request a hearing thereon before the Personnel Appeals Board.
   (B)   The procedure to be followed in appealing any such disciplinary action
to the Personnel Appeals Board, including the time limits for such appeals,
shall be as provided in the rules promulgated by the Personnel Director and
approved by the City Manager and the rules of the Personnel Appeals Board.
   (C)   The procedure to be followed on appeal shall be as provided in the
rules of the Personnel Appeals Board.
The Board shall make its own rules, choose its own officers, and have the
authority to subpoena witnesses and to require the production of records.
('70 Code, § 153.14; amend. Ord. 2297, passed 12-22-81; amend. Ord. 3760,
passed 11-28-23)
§ 34.15 REDUCTIONS; LAYOFFS.
   (A)   In the event it becomes necessary to lay off employees for any reason,
the City Manager shall determine the classes of employment in which such layoff
shall be made, the number to be laid off, and the duration of such layoff.
Employees shall be laid off at the time and in the number specified by the City
Manager.
   (B)   The manner in which any such layoff shall be conducted shall be as
provided in the rules promulgated by the Personnel Director and approved by the
City Manager. ('70 Code, § 153.15; amend. Ord. 2297, passed 12-22-81)
EMPLOYMENT PROVISIONS
§ 34.20 BLANKET BOND.
   A bond or insurance policy providing similar coverage for all city employees
not otherwise covered by this title shall be in the form of a minimum $5,000
blanket bond, the premium for which shall be paid by the city. The bond shall
be for the protection of the city and the public against loss due to acts or
omissions of the city employees. The amount of the bond may be more than $5,000
for certain employees as determined by the City Manager.
('70 Code, § 155.01; amend. Ord. 2291, passed 10-27-81; amend. Ord. 2297,
passed 12-22-81; amend. Ord. 3760, passed 11-28-23)
§ 34.21 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   For purposes of emergency response, the Police Chief, Deputy Police
Chief, Fire Chief, Fire Captains, Service Director, and Parks and Recreation
Director shall reside within a 20 road mile radius of the civic center. This is
measured by taking the most direct route from the Civic Center to the
employee's residence.
   (B)   For all other employees, residency within the corporate limits of the
city is not required by this section. However, where the availability needs of
a particular department or division require that its employees live in
proximity to the city, the City Manager may establish regulations governing the
distance such employees may live from the boundaries of the city.
(Ord. 3745, passed 2-14-23)
§ 34.215 PREMIUM PAY.
   (A)   Court time call-in for Mayor's Court shall be compensated at the rate
of one and one-half times the normal rate of pay with a minimum of three hours
pay, two hours at a pay rate of time and one-half.
   (B)   Court time call-in for appearances in courts other than Mayor's Court
shall be compensated at the rate of one and one-half times the normal rate of
pay with a minimum of four and one-half hours pay, three hours at a pay rate of
time and one-half.
   (C)   Any witness fees received as a result of court appearances in
connection with city employment shall be turned over to the city within three
days of the receipt of such fees.
   (D)   There shall be no pyramiding of premium pay for the same hours worked.
(Ord. 3254. Passed 12-30-03.)
§ 34.22 OVERTIME PAY.
   (A)   All employees, except those on salary and platoon shift full-time
employees and part-time firefighters, will receive overtime pay at the rate of
time and one-half for all hours worked in an active pay status in excess of 40
straight time hours per week.
   (B)   Platoon shift full-time employees and part-time firefighters will
receive overtime pay at a rate of time and one-half for all hours in an active
pay status in excess of 212 hours in a 28-day work cycle.
(Ord. 3745, passed 2-14-23; amend. Ord. 3760, passed 11-28-23)
§ 34.225 COMPENSATORY TIME.
   (A)   All overtime worked shall be compensated, at the employee's election,
either at the rate of one-and-one-half times the employee's regular rate in
which it was earned or in compensatory time, accrued at the same rate.
   (B)   At no time may an employee's compensatory time bank exceed 32 hours.
Platoon shift full-time employees and part-time firefighters bank shall not
exceed 48 hours.
   (C)   Requests for the use of compensatory time must be approved by the
department head or designee and must be made at least 72 hours before the
beginning of the period requested by the employee, unless the time period is
waived by the department head or designee.
   (D)   Requests for the use of compensatory time are limited to one request
per pay period. Such requests may be taken in any unit not less than one-
quarter hour and not more than 16 hours and must be approved in the same manner
and timing as vacation time, utilizing a request for leave slip. Platoon shift
full-time employees and part-time firefighters shall be permitted to request up
to 24 hours of time per pay period.
   (E)   Employee compensatory time may not be rolled over from one year to the
next. All compensatory time shall either be taken or paid in the same payroll
year that it is earned on or about December 1st of each year.
   (F)   The city shall not mandate the use of the employees' accrued
compensatory time.
   (G)   Compensatory time shall be considered "hours worked" for overtime
purposes.
   (H)   Compensatory time may not be utilized in the same pay period in which
it is earned.
(Ord. 3760, passed 11-28-23)
§ 34.23 HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   The following days are designated as holidays for all full-time
employees not covered under bargaining agreements:
      New Year's Day
      President's Day (third Monday in February)
      Good Friday
      Memorial Day
      Independence Day
      Labor Day (first Monday in September)
      Thanksgiving Day
      Day after Thanksgiving
      Christmas Eve (December 24th)
      Christmas Day
      Three Personal Leave Days
(Personal leave days shall be adjusted for any new full-time employee who had a
hire date that is later than the end of the second quarter of the payroll year.
If hired during the third quarter of the year, they will receive two personal
leave days. If hired during the fourth quarter, they will receive one personal
leave day.
   (B)   Except for platoon shift employees, when any of these days fall on
Saturday, Sunday or a scheduled day off for the employee, the City Manager
shall determine whether the preceding Friday, the following Monday, or which
other day shall be observed as the holiday.
   (C)   Platoon shift employees shall work their regular tour of duty,
regardless of the day on which the holiday falls, and shall receive 12.0 hours
straight time of pay for such holiday. Such payment shall be made in the pay
period following completion of the 28-day work cycle.
      (1)   For all such full-time employees, except platoon shift employees,
the above days shall be considered as days off with pay unless, in the opinion
of the department head or designee, failure to work on such holidays would
impair the public service. Hourly employees, except platoon shift employees,
who are required to work on a holiday, shall be compensated at the rate of time
and one-half for all hours worked in addition to holiday pay.
      (2)   Payment shall be made for such holiday pay, provided the employee
works his/her last scheduled shift preceding the holiday and his/her first
scheduled shift following the holiday, or is otherwise excused by the
department head or designee from the scheduled assignments during the holiday
week due to sick leave or vacation leave. An employee on sick leave status on a
holiday shall receive holiday pay and not sick leave pay for that day.
      (3)   Except for platoon shift employees, if a holiday occurs during an
employee's vacation, the employee shall be entitled to an additional day of
vacation to compensate for the holiday.
      (4)   (a)   Platoon shift employees who work a complete shift on a
holiday will receive an additional 6.0 hours of straight time pay. Pay will be
in addition to the holiday pay of 12.0 hours of straight time provided in
division (A)(3) of this section. Such payment shall be made in the pay period
following completion of the 28-day work cycle.
         (b)   All part-time firefighters who work on a holiday will receive
holiday pay at time and a half for all hours worked. Such payment shall be made
in the pay period following completion of the 28-day work cycle.
(Ord. 3745, passed 2-14-23; amend. Ord. 3760, passed 11-28-23)
§ 34.24 COMPREHENSIVE MAJOR MEDICAL INSURANCE.
   (A)   The city shall make available to all full-time employees covered
hereunder a group health care program, which shall consist of at least one
health care plan. If the city offers more than one health care plan in the
group health care program, then the city shall designate one of the health care
plans as the Core Plan, taking into consideration the recommendation of the
Insurance Committee as described below. If the city offers one health care plan
in the group health care program, then that plan shall be designated as the
Core Plan.
      (1)   In accordance with the Affordable Care Act, the city shall make
available the same health plans to all part-time employees assigned to a
schedule of 30 or more hours per week and to all variable hour part-time
employees working an average of 30 or more hours per week during their
designated measurement period.
      (2)   The city will contribute 85% of the Core Plan premium toward the
employee's insurance premium cost. The employee will be responsible for the
remaining premium cost.
      (3)   If the city offers a High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP) with a
Health Savings Account (HSA), then the city shall annually contribute 65% of
the employees' annual HDHP deductible amount to the employees' HSA. This
contribution to the employees' HSA will be paid as follows:
         (a)   The first half of the contribution shall be paid into the
employees' HSA in January.
         (b)   The remaining half of the contribution will be paid in equal
installments on each remaining pay date for the year.
      (4)   If an employee encounters a hardship that will exhaust all of the
employee's HSA funds, then the employee may request an emergency distribution
of the remaining annual contribution. Such a request shall be made to the Human
Resources Manager, and the request will be approved at the discretion of the
City Manager. All health care costs beyond the city's 85% contribution to the
premium of the Core Plan and the city's 65% deductible contribution to the HSA
(when applicable as described above) shall be paid by the employees.
   (B)   Each employee must elect to subscribe to one of the plan options
before insurance payments for same will be made by the city. In the event the
employee should elect not to subscribe to a plan, additional compensation shall
not be paid to the employee. Employees not electing to subscribe to a plan MUST
officially waive coverage.
(Ord. 3745, passed 2-14-23; amend. Ord. 3760, passed 11-28-23)
§ 34.25 GROUP LIFE INSURANCE.
   The city shall furnish a life insurance policy of the amount and type and
with the company as they shall determine. The policy premium shall be paid by
the city and in the event an employee should elect not to subscribe to the
plan, additional compensation shall not be paid to the employee and the pay
scale provided for in the personnel classification ordinance shall be the full
and total compensation to be paid to the employee. The life insurance mentioned
therein, shall apply to all full-time employees only. Employees not electing to
subscribe to the plan must officially waive coverage. An employee shall become
eligible for the insurance upon being hired in full-time, non-temporary status.
(Ord. 3745, passed 2-14-23; amend. Ord. 3760, passed 11-28-23)
§ 34.255 ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT INSURANCE.
   The city shall furnish an accidental death and dismemberment (AD&D)
insurance policy for all full-time employees in an amount and of the type with
the company as the city shall determine, or in the amount and of the type as
agreed to by properly executed labor contracts. The policy premium shall be
paid by the city. In the event an employee should elect not to subscribe to the
plan, additional compensation shall not be paid to the employee, and the pay
scale provided for in the personnel classification ordinance shall be the full
and total compensation to be paid to the employee. Employees not electing to
subscribe to the plan must officially waive coverage. An employee shall become
eligible for the insurance upon being hired in a full-time, non-temporary
status.
(Ord. 3182. Passed 3-13-01; Ord. 3760. Passed 11-28-23.)
§ 34.26 INJURY LEAVE AND WAGE CONTINUATION PAY.
   At the discretion of the City Manager or his/her designee, as provided by
ordinance, leave with pay may be granted for service-connected occupational
illness or injury, as determined by an investigation by the Human Resources
Department. Compensation for lost time received by the employee from the
Industrial Commission shall be deposited with the Finance Director for such
times as the employee received full wages from the city.
(Ord. 3745, passed 2-14-23; amend. Ord. 3760, passed 11-28-23)
§ 34.27 SICK LEAVE CREDIT.
   (A)   All provisional, probationary, and regular full-time employees shall
accrue sick leave credits at the rate of 4.616 hours of sick leave credit for
every 80 hours of completed regularly scheduled work. An employee shall accrue
sick leave credits at the normal rate during any leave with pay, except while
on extended sick leave (see division (C) of this section). However, those
additional sick leave credits earned by an employee while on leave with pay
shall not be available for the employee's use until the employee has returned
to work. An employee will not be considered returned to work until they have
been back to work for a period of 30 days or more. An employee shall not accrue
sick leave credits while on suspension without pay, unpaid leave, or absence
without leave. Employees on paid or unpaid FMLA leave will be treated in the
same manner as other employees on leave.
      (1)   For example, an employee on FMLA leave with pay (e.g. using
vacation or sick pay) will be entitled to accrue sick leave credits at the
normal rate during his/her paid leave status. The same rules governing
employees on extended sick leave, as described in division (C) of this section,
will also apply to employees on FMLA leave. If, on the other hand, an employee
is absent from work on unpaid FMLA leave, he/she will not be entitled to accrue
sick leave credits.
      (2)   Except for platoon shift employees, the maximum accumulation of
sick leave credits by employees covered hereunder shall be 1,500 hours. The
maximum accumulation for platoon shift employees shall be 2,100 hours. An
employee who reaches the maximum allowable accrual on sick leave hours will
cease to accrue sick leave hours until their balance has dropped below the
maximum allowable accumulation.
      (3)   Platoon shift employees shall accrue sick leave credit at the rate
of 6.462 hours for each two week pay period. (This is the same rate of accrual
as other employees recognizing the greater number of hours worked on a 24/48
schedule as allowed under the FLSA.)
   (B)   (1)   An employee who has had prior service with another public agency
may receive credit for all unused sick leave (up to a maximum of 90 days or its
hourly equivalency for platoon shift employees) credited to the employee by
such public agency provided that he/she is employed by the City of West
Carrollton within one year of his/her separation from employment with such
public agency. If the employee has had prior service with more than one public
agency, only those accumulated and unused sick leave credits recognized by the
most recent public agency shall be eligible for transfer to the city. The
employee, within one year of hire by the City of West Carrollton, must furnish
a properly certified letter from the prior public employer stating the amount
of unused sick leave credits accumulated by the employee at the time of his/her
separation from employment. Accumulated and unused sick leave so certified
shall be credited to the employee's record as of the date received by the City
of West Carrollton.
      (2)   An employee who is separated from the city service through
resignation, lay-off, or retirement, and then later reinstated, shall receive
credit for all previously unused sick leave, provided such reinstatement occurs
within 18 months of the initial separation. If the employee previously received
reimbursement for such accumulated sick leave, as provided in division (E),
(F), and (G) of this section, reinstatement of the accumulated sick leave shall
not be permitted.
   (C)   Salaried employees with at least one year of service shall be eligible
for extended illness or injury pay at one-half their regular salary for up to
60 work days, after their sick leave and injury leave have been depleted.
Extended illness or injury shall be interpreted to mean an illness or injury
with doctor's certificate, of an uninterrupted continuous nature. Extended
illness or injury may occur more than one time during a one year period, but
must be of a different, unrelated nature.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   Except for platoon shift employees, accumulated and unused
sick leave in excess of 720 hours as of December 31st of each year may be
converted by any regular full-time employee not covered under a bargaining
agreement to vacation leave at the rate of three hours of accumulated sick
leave for one hour of vacation leave.
         (b)   A maximum of 40 such vacation hours may be acquired by an
employee through such conversion in any one calendar year. To effect such a
conversion, an employee shall notify the City Manager in writing of the number
of days to be converted, whereupon such conversion may be approved. In the
event an employee converts sick leave to vacation leave as provided herein,
such vacation leave shall not be subsequently reconverted to sick leave, unless
the conversion is elected within the same calendar year and is supported by a
medical certificate.
      (2)   Accumulated and unused sick leave for platoon shift employees in
excess of 1,008 hours as of December 31st of each year, may be converted by any
such regular full-time employee not covered by a bargaining agreement to
vacation leave at the rate of three hours of accumulated sick leave for one
hour of vacation leave. A maximum of 168 sick leave hours may be converted to
56 hours of vacation leave in any one calendar year. To effect such a
conversion, an employee shall notify the City Manager in writing of the number
of days to be converted, whereupon such conversion may be approved. In the
event an employee converts sick leave to vacation leave as provided herein,
such vacation leave shall not be subsequently reconverted to sick leave, unless
the conversion is elected within the same calendar year and is supported by a
medical certificate.
   (E)   A full-time employee not covered under a bargaining agreement hired
before January 1, 1990 may convert any accumulated and unused sick leave
benefits existing at the time of the employee's retirement under the state
retirement system or at the time of their early retirement (where the sum of
employee's age plus years of credited service equals or exceeds 70) to cash
payment at the following rate:
      (1)   For accumulated and unused sick leave days up to a maximum of 720
hours (90 days), conversion at the rate of two sick leave hours equal to one
cash payment hour.
      (2)   For accumulated and unused sick leave days in excess of 720 hours
(90 days) up to a maximum of 1,200 hours, conversion at the rate of one sick
leave hour equal to one cash payment hour.
      (3)   For accumulated and unused sick leave days in excess of 1,200 hours
up to a maximum of 1,500 hours, conversion at the rate of three sick leave
hours equal to one cash payment hour.
      (4)   The reference to days as set forth herein shall be converted to the
hourly equivalence for platoon shift employees.
   (F)   A full-time employee not covered under a bargaining agreement hired
after January 1, 1990, may convert any accumulated and unused sick leave
benefits existing at the time of the employee's retirement under the state
retirement system or at the time of their early retirement (where the sum of
employee's age plus years of credited service equals or exceeds 70) to cash
payment at the following rate:
      (1)   For accumulated and unused sick leave days up to a maximum of 1,500
hours, conversion at the rate of three sick leave hours equal to one cash
payment hour.
      (2)   The reference to days as set forth herein shall be converted to the
hourly equivalence for platoon shift employees.
   (G)   Except for platoon shift employees, a regular full-time employee who
has been employed a minimum of six months and uses 32 or less sick hours
between during the previous payroll year of any given year will be eligible for
the following incentive:
      (1)   Any employee who has utilized 32 or less hours of sick time will be
awarded a cash incentive payment of $150 no later than January 31st of the next
year.
      (2)   Any employee who has utilized 24 or less hours of sick time will be
awarded a cash incentive payment of $300 no later than January 31st of the next
year.
      (3)   Any employee who has utilized 16 or less hours of sick time will be
awarded a cash incentive payment of $500 no later than January 31st of the next
year.
      (4)   Any employee who has perfect attendance for the year will receive
one extra personal leave day in addition to the cash incentive payment of $500.
Both will be reflected no later than January 31st of the next year. Vacation
leave and personal leave will not count as missed work for the purposes of the
attendance incentive.
   (H)   All regular full-time platoon shift employee who has been employed
with the city for a minimum of six months and uses 48 or less sick hours during
the previous payroll year of any given year will be eligible for the following
incentive:
      (1)   Any employee who has utilized 48 or less hours of sick time will be
awarded a cash incentive payment of $150 no later than January 31st of the next
year.
      (2)   Any employee who has utilized 36 or less hours of sick time will be
awarded a cash incentive payment of $300 no later than January 31st of the next
year.
      (3)   Any employee who has utilized 24 or less hours of sick time will be
awarded a cash incentive payment of $500 no later than January 31st of the next
year.
      (4)   Any employee who has perfect attendance for the year will receive
12 extra personal leave hours in addition to the cash incentive payment of
$500. Both will be reflected no later than January 31st of the next year.
Vacation leave and personal leave will not count as missed work for the
purposes of the attendance incentive.
   (I)   Except for platoon shift employees, employees who experience 48 or
more hours of sick leave usage during the current payroll year may be subject
to the following procedure:
      (1)   On the request for the 48th hour of sick leave usage and for each
subsequent sick leave request within the current payroll year, the department
director may counsel the employee regarding absenteeism. Usage will be
calculated during the preceding 12 months from the date of the most recent
absence and not on a calendar year. A written record of the counseling will be
documented on an "Excessive Absenteeism Counseling" Form and signed by the
employee. Distribution of the record will be to the department director, the
employee, and the employee's personnel file (original). Sick leave absences for
which the employee provides a doctor's note will not be included in the 48
hours of sick leave usage for purposes of this section. (Division (J) of this
section.)
      (2)   If after formally counseling the employee, the department director
feels that the employee is continuing to experience excessive absenteeism, he/
she may issue a "Letter of Reprimand" to the employee. The employee is to sign
the document acknowledging receipt thereof. The original "Letter of Reprimand"
will be placed in the employee's personnel file with a copy given to the
employee.
      (3)   If after issuing the letter of reprimand and it is determined that
the employee continues to abuse the sick leave policy, that employee may be
subject to progressively more disciplinary action.
   (J)   For platoon shift employees, division (I) of this section shall apply
to employees who experience 72 or more hours of sick leave usage during a 12-
month period.
(Ord. 3745, passed 2-14-23; amend. Ord. 3760, passed 11-28-23)
§ 34.28 VACATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Regular full-time non-platoon employees not covered under
bargaining agreements shall accrue vacation credits on an accrual basis
consistent with the vacation accrual rates shown below. Each employee shall be
subject to a maximum limit on the amount of vacation hours that may be carried
on their individual account.
      (2)   Regular full-time employees shall maintain their vacation credit
level below their maximum unless they have approval of the City Manager.
Length of Service         Vacation Accrual Rate
Less than five years         3.08 hours per pay period
                  (136 hrs. max.
                  accumulation)
After five years but less      5.231 hours per pay period
than ten years            (192 hrs. max.
                  accumulation)
After ten years but less      5.539 hours per pay period
than 15 years            (208 hrs. max.
                  accumulation)
After 15 years but less      6.154 hours per pay period
than 20 years            (224 hrs. max.
                  accumulation)
After 20 years or more      7.077 hours per pay period
                  (240 hrs. max.
                  accumulation)
      (3)   Regular full-time Fire Captains and full-time firefighters shall
accrue vacation credits on an accrual basis consistent with the annual totals
below. Each employee shall be subject to a maximum limit on the amount of
vacation hours that may be carried on his/her individual account. Employees
shall maintain their vacation credit level below their maximum unless they have
approval of the City Manager.
Length of Service         Vacation Credit
Less than five years         4.312 hours per pay period
                  (156.8 hrs. max.
                  accumulation)
After five years but less      7.323 hours per pay period
than ten years            (268.8 hrs. max.
                  accumulation)
After ten years but less      7.7546 hours per pay period
than 15 years            (291.2 hrs. max.
                  accumulation)
After 15 years but less      8.6156 hours per pay
than 20 years            period (313.6 hrs. max.
                  accumulation)
After 20 years            9.9078 hours per pay
                  period (336 hrs. max.
                  accu mulation)
      (4)   Reconciliation of hours. Each year in following the final pay
period of the year, employees who have accrued vacation hours in excess of the
maximum allowable accumulation will have their accrued vacation hours adjusted
to an amount not to exceed the allowable accumulation. All hours exceeding the
allowable accumulation will be forfeited at that time. The actual
reconciliation date will coincide with the final day of the payroll year.
      (5)   Retirement. At the time an employee has declared their retirement
date in writing, the City Manager may elect to pay out the employee's
accumulated vacation pay in installments over a period which includes two
payroll years. Installment payments shall be at the discretion of the City
Manager based on available budget appropriations, and upon mutual agreement of
the employee.
   (B)   When a regular full-time employee hired before January 1, 1994,
completes the minimum number of years of service to qualify for the next higher
level in the vacation schedule, the employee shall begin on their anniversary
date accruing vacation at the higher rate to which they are entitled and
receive a lump sum of vacation hours equal to the differential of the two
levels.
   (C)   When a regular full-time employee hired after January 1, 1994,
completes the minimum number of years of service to qualify for the next higher
level in the vacation schedule, the employee shall begin on their anniversary
date accruing vacation at the higher rate to which they are entitled.
   (D)   A regular full-time employee of the city, who was previously employed
by a political subdivision, may claim credit for the service time recognized by
such political subdivision for the purpose of granting vacation leave, provided
that he/she is employed by the City of West Carrollton within one year of his/
her separation from employment with such political subdivision. To receive
credit, the employee, within one year of the date of hire by the City of West
Carrollton, must furnish a properly certified letter from the previous employer
stating the length of service recognized by said employer for vacation
purposes. Service time so certified shall be credited to the employee's record
as of the date received by the City of West Carrollton. Service time recognized
by the immediately preceding employer only will be honored by the city.
(Ord. 3745, passed 2-14-23; amend. Ord. 3760, passed 11-28-23)
§ 34.29 JURY DUTY.
   An employee required to serve on a jury before a court empowered by law to
require such service, shall be excused from work for the time required for such
service and shall be paid their regular hourly rate less jury pay, provided the
employee notifies the department director or designee three days prior to such
jury service date.
(Ord. 3745, passed 2-14-13; amend. Ord. 3760, passed 11-28-23)
§ 34.30 MILITARY LEAVE.
   An employee shall be granted paid military leave not to exceed three days,
or one tour of duty for platoon shift employees, in order to report for a
physical examination for compulsory military service in the Armed Forces of the
United States. An employee shall be granted paid short term military leave not
to exceed 31 calendar days per year for active military service. The City
Manager may approve longer paid leaves of absence in the event an employee's
reserve or national guard unit is called into action by the President of the
United States or Governor of Ohio, respectively. The employee shall be paid
their regular hourly rate, less the amount paid them for their military service
by the Armed Forces. Such paid leave shall not affect the right of the employee
to their regular annual vacation.
(Ord. 3745, passed 2-14-23; amend. Ord. 3760, passed 11-28-23)
§ 34.31 PAY PERIOD.
   The pay period shall be from midnight Sunday to midnight Sunday for all city
employees. For Fire Department employees whose shift begins on Sunday and ends
on Monday, the pay period shall be from the end of shift Monday to end of shift
Monday. Pay checks shall be on a bi-weekly basis. A 28-day work cycle is hereby
established for all platoon shift employees, commencing on a date determined by
the City Manager.
(Ord. 3745, passed 2-14-23)
§ 34.32 SUPPLEMENTAL RULES.
   The City Manager and Personnel Director are authorized to adopt such rules
and regulations as they deem are necessary to govern the personnel system of
the city. Such rules and regulations shall not be in conflict with the City
Charter or this chapter.
(Ord. 2001, passed 4-12-77; amend. Ord. 2297, passed 12-22-81)
§ 34.33 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE.
   (A)   A regular full-time employee not covered under a collective bargaining
agreement will be granted up to five days, or up to two tours of duty for
platoon shift employees, of bereavement leave as necessary, not deducted from
accumulated sick leave, in the event of the death of the employee's spouse,
child, parent, parent-in-law, step-child, step-parents, step-parent-in-law,
brother or sister.
   (B)   (1)   A regular full-time employee not covered under a collective
bargaining agreement will be granted up to three days, or up to one tour of
duty for platoon shift employees, of bereavement leave as necessary, not
deducted from accumulated sick leave, to attend the funeral of a member of the
employee's family as defined below:
         (a)   Grandparent;
         (b)   Grandchild;
         (c)   Step-grandparent;
         (d)   Brother-in-law;
         (e)   Sister-in-law;
         (f)   Son-in-law;
         (g)   Daughter-in-law; or
         (h)   Other members of the employee's immediate family residing in the
employee's household.
      (2)   This provision is not to be interpreted as an automatic three days
or one tour of duty off with pay, especially if appropriate arrangements can be
made in a lesser amount of time. In those situations where attendance at the
funeral necessitates extended out-of-state travel, the employee may use up to
two days or its hourly equivalency for platoon shift employees of accumulated
sick leave, subject to the approval of the City Manager or designee, for the
extended travel. Such time off may be in addition to the time off provided
above.
   (C)   A regular full-time employee not covered under a collective bargaining
agreement will be granted up to three days, or up to one tour of duty for
platoon shift employees, of unpaid leave to attend the funeral of a member of
the employee's immediate family not included in the definitions set forth
herein, subject to the approval of the City Manager or designee.
(Ord. 3745, passed 2-14-23; amend. Ord. 3760, passed 11-28-23)
§ 34.34 REIMBURSEMENT FOR LOST OR DAMAGED PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   General restrictions.
      (1)   Under normal circumstances, the city will not accept responsibility
for loss of or damage to an employee's personal property whether it is lost or
damaged while on or off duty. The city will not in any instance assume
responsibility for replacement or repair of an item which exceeds $200.
      (2)   Damage to or loss of articles or possessions which are brought to
work by an employee for their own personal satisfaction (wireless speaker,
smart watch/fitness tracker, iPod’s and the like) will not be reimbursed under
any circumstance. Furthermore, no reimbursement shall be made for any loss or
damage resulting from an employee's misconduct.
   (B)   Provisions for reimbursement.
      (1)   Reimbursement may be made for loss of or damage to an employee's
personal property which:
         (a)   Occurs as a direct result of the employee actually performing
their duties; or
         (b)   Is not a result of employee negligence.
      (2)   Requests for reimbursement are to be submitted in writing to the
appropriate department head stating the following.
         (a)   What was damaged.
         (b)   When the damage occurred (date and time).
         (c)   Where the damage occurred (location).
         (d)   What happened.
         (e)   Attach estimates to repair or replace the damaged item.
      (3)   These requests must then be forwarded to the Personnel Director or
designee. The claim may then be forwarded to the Law Director, who may then
determine the validity of the claim and make a recommendation to the City
Manager as to the disposition of the claim including the amount of
reimbursement he considers appropriate, if any. The City Manager will then
determine the final disposition of the claim.
      (4)   When reimbursement is authorized, it will be limited to the actual
cost of repairs or reasonable replacement costs, taking into consideration the
original cost of the item, not to exceed $200.
(Ord. 3760, passed 11-28-23)
§ 34.341 TUITION REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   Regular full-time regular employees covered hereunder may receive
reimbursement for the tuition for job-related courses. Any employee desiring to
receive such reimbursement must receive approval from the department head and
the City Manager prior to enrolling in the course or courses.
   (B)   The payment of tuition reimbursement shall be subject to the following
guidelines:
      (1)   The course or courses must be taken from an accredited or approved
college, university, secondary school, technical institute, business institute,
or trade school.
      (2)   The course or courses must be directly related to the employee's
current position or a promotional position for which the employee is eligible,
or must be part of a degree program related to the employee's current position
or a promotional position. The employee must submit an outline of their degree
course work and gain approval for participation in the reimbursement program
from the City Manager. Submissions must be prior to starting any course work
and prior to city budget hearings held each year.
   (C)   The city will pay 100% in tuition reimbursement for any course that a
member passes up to the maximum amount stipulated in division (D) of this
section. Reimbursement will be made within 30 days following the conclusion of
the course work, and after submission by the employee of documents showing
completion and passing grades.
   (D)   The maximum amount which an employee covered hereunder can receive in
any one calendar year for tuition reimbursement shall be $3,000.
   (E)   An employee covered hereunder who terminates employment with the city
within two years after completing a course or courses under the tuition
reimbursement program shall refund to the city all money received for courses
taken within two years of the employee's termination date. The amount to be
refunded may be withheld from any termination pay due the employee. Employees
whose services are terminated by the city will not be required to make a
refund.
(Ord. 3745, passed 2-14-23; amend. Ord. 3760, passed 11-28-23)
§ 34.342 DEFERRED COMPENSATION.
   The deferred compensation plan of the ICMA Retirement Corporation is adopted
by reference as fully as if set out at length herein. This plan permits all
eligible employees of the city to defer a portion of their compensation. A copy
of the plan is on file in the office of the Finance Director.
(Res. 5-86, passed 4-8-86; amend. Ord. 3760, passed 11-28-23)
§ 34.343 PICK UP OF CONTRIBUTIONS.
   (A)   The full amount of the statutorily required contributions to the
Public Employees
Retirement System of Ohio and the Police and Firemen's Disability and Pension
Fund of Ohio shall be withheld from the gross pay of each person within any of
the classes established in division (C) of this section and shall be picked up
(assumed and paid to the Public Employees Retirement System of Ohio and the
Police and Firemen's Disability and Pension Fund of Ohio) by the city. This
pick up by the city is, and shall be designated as, Public Employee
contributions and shall be in lieu of contributions to the Public Employees
Retirement System of Ohio and the Police and Firemen's Disability and Pension
Fund of Ohio by each person within any of the classes established in division
(C).
   No person subject to this pick up shall have the option of choosing to
receive the statutorily required contributions to the Public Employees
Retirement System of Ohio and the Police and Firemen's Disability and Pension
Fund of Ohio directly instead of having it picked up by the city or of being
excluded from the pick up.
   (B)   The city shall, in reporting and making remittances to the Public
Employees Retirement System of Ohio and the Police and Firemen's Disability and
Pension Fund of Ohio report that the public employee's contribution for each
person subject to this pick up has been made as provided by the statute.
   (C)   The pick up by the city provided by this section shall apply to all
persons who are full time administrative or police bargaining unit employees of
the city who are or become contributing members of either the Public Employees
Retirement System of Ohio and the Police and Firemen's Disability and Pension
Fund of Ohio.
   (D)   The city's method of payment of salary to employees who are
participants in the pick up program is hereby modified as follows, in order to
provide for a salary reduction pick-up of employee contributions to the Public
Employees Retirement System of Ohio and the Police and Firemen's Disability and
Pension Fund.
   (E)   The total salary for each employee participating in the pick up
program shall be the salary otherwise payable under the city's policies. Such
total salary of each employee shall be payable by the city in two parts:
deferred salary and cash salary. An employee's deferred salary shall be equal
to that percentage of that employee's total salary which is required from time
to time by the Public Employees Retirement System of Ohio and the Police and
Firemen's Disability and Pension Fund to be paid as an employee contribution by
that employee, and shall be paid by the city to these funds on behalf of that
employee as a pick-up and in lieu of the employee contribution otherwise
payable by that employee. An employee's cash salary shall be equal to that
employee's total salary less the amount of the pick-up for that employee, and
shall be payable, subject to applicable payroll deductions, to that employee.
The city shall compute and remit its employer contributions to the Retirement
System based upon an employee's total salary. The total combined expenditures
of the city for such employees' total salaries payable under applicable city
policies and the pick-up provisions of this section shall not be greater than
the amounts it would have paid for those items had this provision not been in
effect.
   (F)   The pick up by the city provided by this section shall apply to all
persons who are full-time employees of the West Carrollton Independent
Employees Association bargaining unit who are, or become, contributing members
of the Public Employees Retirement System of Ohio.
   (G)   The Finance Director is hereby authorized and directed to implement
the provisions of this section to institute the pick up of the statutorily
required contributions to the Public Employees Retirement System of Ohio and
the Police and Firemen's Disability and Pension Fund of Ohio for those persons
reflected in divisions (C) and (F) herein so as to enable them to obtain the
result in federal and state tax deferments and other benefits.
(Ord. 2856, passed 4-14-92; amend. Ord. 2894, passed 3-9-93; amend. Ord. 3760,
passed 11-28-23)
§ 34.344 PURCHASE OF SERVICE CREDIT IN THE PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   Employee of the city may choose to purchase additional service credit,
tax-deferred, and the city shall withhold the required service credit deduction
from the gross pay of each person who elects to do so and shall pick up (assume
and pay) such deduction to the Public Employees Retirement System of Ohio. A
person electing this pick up deduction shall not have the option of choosing to
receive the payroll deduction directly instead of having this deduction picked
up by the city. Members of the Public Employees Retirement System of Ohio who
have elected to participate in this plan of tax-deferred payroll deduction
cannot increase, decrease, or terminate the amount of the pick up deduction.
   (B)   The pick up deduction by the city as provided by this section shall
apply to any city employee who is a contributing member of the Public Employees
Retirement System of Ohio, and who elects to use this tax-deferred option for
past service credit payments.
   (C)   The Finance Director is hereby authorized and directed to implement
the provisions of this section to affect the pick up of the payroll deduction
for the purchase of additional service credit to the Public Employees
Retirement System of Ohio for those persons choosing to do so as set forth in
this section.
(Ord. 3057, passed 6-24-97; amend. Ord. 3760, passed 11-28-23)
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING
§ 34.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of §§
34.35 through
34.42 the following words and phrases shall have the following meanings
ascribed to them respectively.
   (A)   CHARTER. The Charter of the City of West Carrollton, as amended from
time to time.
   (B)   CITY MANAGER. The Manager appointed by the city Council as provided in
the city Charter.
   (C)   COUNCIL. The legislative body of the city.
   (D)   CONFIDENTIAL EMPLOYEES. Employees who in the usual course of their
duties have access to confidential information concerning administrative,
financial, personnel, or legal matters of the city, or who is privy to the
decision-making process of city management affecting employee relations,
subject to use by the city in collective bargaining.
   (E)   DIRECTOR. The administrator of personnel matters of the city and their
senior assistants, as designated by the City Manager.
   (F)   EMPLOYEE. Any person employed by the city, except:
      (1)   The Mayor and members of the Council;
      (2)   All employees in exempt positions, except those enumerated in §
10.02(9) of the Charter;
      (3)   Employees within their probationary period;
      (4)   Part-time (other than regular part-time), temporary, casual, and
seasonal employees;
      (5)   Confidential employees, management employees, professional
employees, and supervisory employees, as defined herein.
   (G)   EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION. Any organization in which employees
participate, and which exists for the purpose, in whole or in part, of dealing
with the city in matters concerning wages, hours, fringe benefits, and working
conditions, and which has registered with the city in accordance with the
provisions of §
34.36, or is recognized as an employee organization under the provisions of §
34.37.
   (H)   IMPASSE. The failure of the parties to an existing agreement to
achieve agreement 30 days prior to the expiration date thereof, or the failure
of the city and an employee organization to reach agreement on an initial
agreement within 90 days after negotiations have commenced.
   (I)   MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEE. A department director, their chief assistant, and
other positions as designated from time to time by the City Manager.
   (J)   NEGOTIATE. The mutual obligation of the city and the duly authorized
representatives of a recognized employee organization to negotiate in good
faith in order to freely exchange information, opinions, and proposals, and to
endeavor to reach agreement on matters within the scope of representation.
   (K)   PROFESSIONAL EMPLOYEE. Any employee engaged in work which is
predominantly intellectual, involving the consistent exercise of discretion and
judgment in its performance, and requiring knowledge of an advanced type in a
field of science or learning customarily acquired by a prolonged course in an
institution of higher learning or a hospital, as distinguished from a general
academic education or from an apprenticeship; or an employee who has completed
the courses of specialized intellectual instruction, and is performing related
work under supervision of a professional person to qualify himself to become a
professional employee.
   (L)   RECOGNIZED EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION. An employee organization which has
been certified pursuant to the provisions of §
34.36, as representing the employees in a particular representation unit.
   (M)   REPRESENTATION UNIT. A unit of city employees established pursuant to
the provisions of §
34.37  for the purpose of establishing the employee classifications which will
be the subject of a particular negotiation.
   (N)   SUPERVISORY EMPLOYEE. An individual:
      (1)   (a)   Whose primary duty consists of the management of the city or
of a customarily recognized department or subdivision thereof, or the customary
and regular direction of the work of 2 or more other employees therein, or
         (b)   Who does not devote more than 20% of their hours of work to
activities which are not directly or closely related to the performance of work
described in division (N) (2) of this section, provided that the requirements
of this division shall not apply in the case of an employee who is in sole
charge of an independent activity or a physically separated establishment; or
      (2)   Who has some or all of the following responsibilities in the
interest of the city: to hire, transfer, suspend, layoff, recall, promote,
discharge, assign, reward, or discipline employees, or responsibility to direct
them, or to adjust their grievances, or effectively to recommend action, if, in
connection with the foregoing, exercise of the authority is not of a merely
routine or clerical nature, but requires the use of independent judgment.
(Ord. 2051, passed 11-22-77; amend. Ord. 3760, passed 11-28-23)
§ 34.36 REGISTRATION PROCEDURE PRIOR TO RECOGNITION.
   (A)   Employee organizations shall register, in the manner hereinafter set
forth, with the director prior to representing their membership in their
employee relations with the city.
   (B)   No employee organization shall exercise any rights under the
provisions of §§
34.35 through 34.42 unless it has registered with the director.
   (C)   The registration shall consist of:
      (1)   The name and address of the employee organization;
      (2)   A list of the officers and principal representatives of the
employee organization, with a statement of their authority to bind the employee
organization in contractual matters;
      (3)   A statement that the employee organization has, as one of its
primary purposes, the function of representing employees in their employee
relations with the city;
      (4)   The designation of 2 or more persons and their addresses to whom
notice to the employee organization for any purpose may be given; and
      (5)   A statement that the employee organization has no restriction on
membership based on race, color, creed, national origin, sex, or citizenship.
   (D)   Any change in the registration shall be reported in writing to the
director within 30 days of the occurrence of the change.
(Ord. 2051, passed 11-22-77)
§ 34.37 PROCEDURES FOR ESTABLISHING REPRESENTATION UNITS.
   (A)   Any employee organization desiring to represent employees in a
representation unit, or anyone seeking to decertify an employee organization,
shall first submit to the director a petition in a form as the director may
prescribe, together with evidence that at least 30% of the total number of
employees in the proposed representation unit are interested in representation
or decertification.
   (B)   The director shall recommend the appropriate representation unit or
units sought; thereafter, the City Manager shall establish the representation
unit or units, subject only to review as set forth in division (D) of this
section.
   (C)   The city shall not include in any representation unit any employee who
is excluded from the definition of employee. The City Manager shall initially
designate the representation unit which, in the Manager’s opinion, will be
appropriate for collective bargaining.
   (D)   The final action of the City Manager, in determining the appropriate
representation unit, or in certifying the results of an election under §
34.38 shall be subject to appeal to an independent arbitrator by any petitioner
or intervenor in the proceeding. The appeal must be in writing, and must be
filed with the City Manager in the form prescribed by him within 10 calendar
days, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, or holidays, of the action appealed
from. The independent arbitrator shall be appointed by the American Arbitration
Association under its applicable rules. The fees and expenses of the
independent arbitrator and of the American Arbitration Association shall be
shared equally by the parties involved. The ruling of the independent
arbitrator shall not add to, subtract from, or amend any rules or regulations
validly adopted pursuant to the provisions of §
34.39. The ruling of the independent arbitrator shall be final and conclusive.
(Ord. 2051, passed 11-22-77; amend. Ord. 3760, passed 11-28-23)
§ 34.38 CERTIFICATION AS A RECOGNIZED EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   If, after reviewing the petition, it appears that a question
concerning representation exists, the City Manager shall direct that a secret
ballot election be held to ascertain whether a majority of the employees in the
appropriate representation unit desire representation. The City Manager shall
certify the results of any valid election to council.
   (B)   No employee organization will be recognized for purposes of collective
bargaining which has not been certified as the representative of a majority of
the employees voting in an appropriate representation unit. Any employee
organization so certified shall be awarded, via council resolution, the
exclusive right to negotiate and to represent the representation unit for a
reasonable period of time (in no case less than one year). No further election
shall be held for the duration of any collective bargaining agreement, nor for
the first 12 months after certification as a recognized employee organization.
   (C)   If 2 or more employee organizations seek to represent the same or
similar representation units, the City Manager shall direct that a secret
ballot election be held in which the competing employee organizations may
participate, and in which employees in the representation unit shall have the
opportunity to vote for any employee organization, or for no employee
organization. If no choice on the ballot has an actual majority, a runoff
election between the 2 highest choices will be conducted.
(Ord. 2051, passed 11-22-77)
§ 34.39 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Manager, with the approval of council, may promulgate appropriate
rules and regulations to implement the provisions of §§
34.35 through 34.42. These rules and regulations shall be administrative, and
shall not change, add to, or subtract from the substance of these sections.
They may include, but not be limited to, appropriate proceedings for
certification petitions and decertification petitions by employees, and conduct
of secret ballot elections. (Ord. 2051, passed 11-22-77)
§ 34.40 IMPASSE RESOLUTION.
   (A)   In the event of an impasse, and on the request of the city or an
employee organization, the parties shall request the services of a mediator
from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service to assist the parties in
resolving the dispute.
   (B)   If the mediator indicates to the council that the city and the
employee organization are unable to reach agreement, the city and the employee
organization shall each appoint a member to a fact finding board. The 2 members
so appointed shall mutually agree upon the third member, who shall be
disinterested in the dispute and representative of the public. If, for any
reason, the public member is not appointed promptly, the third member shall be
appointed through procedures established by the Federal Mediation and
Conciliation Service.
   (C)   (1)   The fact finding board shall investigate and determine the facts
surrounding the dispute, and within 30 days after appointment, report its
findings of fact and recommendations to the council, the City Manager and the
employee organization. The board may submit majority and dissenting findings
and recommendations, if appropriate.
      (2)   During the board's appointment and work, the city and the employee
organization in the dispute shall be under an obligation to cooperate with the
board and continue to negotiate for the purpose of resolving the dispute.
   (D)   If this dispute remains unresolved for 45 days following the
submission of the board's findings and recommendations, the findings and
recommendations shall be considered by the council, and upon a majority vote,
the council will render a decision in the dispute at a regular meeting. The
clerk of the council shall notify the employee organization of the decision in
writing.
   (E)   The decision of the council shall be final unless within 10 days
following receipt of the notice by the employee organization either the City
Manager or the employee organization files a written protest with the clerk of
the council. The matter shall thereupon be resolved by advisory arbitration as
set forth in division (F) below; provided, however, that following receipt of
the advisory arbitration award, and upon the agreement of the employee
organization and vote of a majority of the council, all or part of the
arbitration may be authorized as final and binding on the parties.
   (F)   The city and the employee organization may mutually agree upon an
arbitrator, or a joint letter requesting the Federal Mediation and Conciliation
Service to submit the names of 5 arbitrators, signed and mailed by the city and
the employee organization. Upon receipt of the names, the city and the employee
organization shall alternately cross off one name until one name remains, that
person being selected as the arbitrator. A date for arbitration shall be set as
soon as possible in accordance with the wishes of the city and the employee
organization, and the availability of the arbitrator. Both the city and the
employee organization shall share equally the expenses and fees of the
arbitrator, and other expenses incident to the arbitration hearing.
(Ord. 2051, passed 11-22-77)
§ 34.41 CONSTRUCTION OF §§ 34.35 THROUGH 34.42.
   (A)   Nothing in §§
34.35 through
34.42 shall be construed to deny any person, organization, employee, or
employer any rights granted by federal or state law, or local ordinance or
charter.
   (B)   If any provisions of §§
34.35 through
34.42, or the application of any provision to any person, organization,
employee, or circumstance shall be held to be invalid, the remainder of the
sections or the application of the provisions to persons, organizations,
employees, or circumstances, other than those being held invalid, shall not be
affected thereby.
   (C)   Subject to the limitations pertaining to employees and representation
units contained in §§
34.35 through
34.42, nothing contained herein shall be construed to prohibit 2 or more
employee organizations from acting jointly, as a single organization, to
register, to petition for a representation unit, or to petition for
certification as a recognized employee organization, and if certified, to
represent the employees within the representation unit.
(Ord. 2051, passed 11-22-77)
§ 34.42 PROHIBITION AGAINST STRIKES AGAINST CITY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following words and
phrases shall have the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
      (1)   EMPLOYEE. Any person holding a position by appointment or
employment in the government of the city.
      (2)   EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION. Any organization in which employees
participate, and which exists for the primary purpose of representing employees
in their employment relations including, in whole or in part, of dealing with
the city in matters concerning wages, hours, fringe benefits, or working
conditions.
      (3)   STRIKE. The failure to report for duty, the willful absence from
one's position, the stoppage of work, or the abstinence in whole or in part
from the full, faithful, and proper performance of the duties of employment,
for the purpose of inducing, influencing, or coercing a change in the
conditions, compensation, rights, privileges, or obligations of employment, or
of intimidating, coercing, or unlawfully influencing others from remaining in
or from assuming public employment. This section does not limit, impair, or
affect the right of any employee, as defined above, to the expression or
communication of a view, grievance, complaint, or opinion on any matter related
to the conditions or compensation of public employment or their betterment, so
long as the expression or communication is not designed to and does not
interfere with the full, faithful, and proper performance of the duties of
employment.
   (B)   Notice, suspension, and hearing.
      (1)   Any employee who, without the approval of their superior,
unlawfully fails to report for duty, absents themselves from their position, or
abstains in whole or in part from full, faithful, and proper performance of
their position for the purpose of inducing, influencing, or coercing a change
in the conditions or compensation, rights, privileges, or obligations of
employment, or of intimidating, coercing, or unlawfully influencing others from
remaining in or from assuming employment shall be considered on strike.
      (2)   The employee shall be sent a notice by the director, or the City
Manager, addressed to their residence as set forth in their employment record,
that they are on strike, and are suspended without pay. The employee may
request and subsequently be entitled to establish that they did not violate the
provisions of this section. The request must be filed in writing, with the
director or the City Manager, within 10 calendar days after the regular
compensation of the employee has ceased. In the event of a request, the
director shall, within 10 calendar days of receipt of the request, commence a
proceeding for the determination of whether the provisions of this section have
been violated by the employee. The proceeding shall be undertaken without
unnecessary delay. The director shall, upon hearing all facts presented, make a
recommendation as to the disposition of the matter to the City Manager. The
City Manager shall finally decide what action is to be taken, and the employee
upon receipt of the written decision of the City Manager, shall have the right
to appeal the decision to the personnel appeals board of the city in accordance
with the board's rules and regulations.
(Ord. 2052, passed 11-22-77; amend. Ord. 3760, passed 11-28-23)
CHAPTER 35: PUBLIC RECORDS POLICY
35.01   Purpose
35.02   Custodian of Public Records; when available
35.03   General provisions
35.04   Denial of a public records request
35.05   Compliance
35.06   Failure to respond to a public records request
§ 35.01 PURPOSE.
   The City of West Carrollton maintains many records that are used in the
administration and operation of the City. In accordance with State law, the
City of West Carrollton Records Commission has adopted a schedule of records
retention and disposition that identify these records and this schedule is
available in the Mayor’s office. This schedule lists generally the types of
records that are stored on a fixed medium (paper, computer, film, etc.) that
are created, received, or sent under the jurisdiction of the City and document
the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations, or
other activities of the City. The records maintained by the City and the
ability to access them are means to provide trust between the public and the
City.
(Res. 16-2007. Passed 10-23-07.)
§ 35.02 CUSTODIAN OF PUBLIC RECORDS; WHEN AVAILABLE.
   (A)   The Clerk of Council is the official Public Records Custodian of all
records which are centrally maintained by the City. Department heads are the
official custodians of all records maintained within their departments. Public
records requests may be made directly to Department heads or through the Public
Records Custodian. Requests for records from the police department may be made
directly to the police records clerk.
   (B)   Public records requests will be accommodated during regular business
hours when offices maintaining said records are open for business. Public
records requests will not be accepted on weekends or holidays.
(Res. 16-2007. Passed 10-23-07.)
§ 35.03 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Public Records. Public records include the following: Any document -
paper, electronic (including, but not limited to, e-mail), or other format -
that is created or received by, or comes under the jurisdiction of a public
office that documents the organization, functions, policies, decisions,
procedures, operations, or other activities of the office. All records of the
City of West Carrollton are public unless they are specifically exempt from
disclosure under the Ohio Revised Code or Federal law.
      (1)   It is the policy of the City of West Carrollton that records will
be organized and maintained so that they are readily available for inspection
and copying.
   (B)   Record Requests. Each request for public records should be evaluated
for a response using the following guidelines:
      (1)   Although no specific language is required to make a request, the
requester must at least identify the records requested with sufficient clarity
to allow the public office to identify, retrieve, and review the records. If it
is not clear what records are being sought, the Public Records Custodian must
contact the requester for clarification, and should assist the requestor is
revising the request by informing the requestor of the manner in which the
office keeps its records.
      (2)   The Public Records Custodian may ask the requester to put a verbal
request in writing, may ask for the requester to give identifying information,
or may inquire about the intended use of the information; but a written request
is not mandatory, identifying information is not required and the intended use
does not have to be disclosed. However, providing such information would
benefit the requester by enhancing the ability of the Public Records Custodian
to identify, locate and deliver the public records requested. Some Departments
have forms that the requester has the option of using in making the request.
      Public records can be accessed by one of the following methods: a request
to view public records in person; a request for copies of public records that
the requester will personally pick up from the Public Records Custodian; or a
request for copies of public records that the requester wants to have mailed or
otherwise transmitted to the requester.
      Public records must be made available for inspection promptly. Copies of
public records must be made available within a reasonable period of time.
“Prompt” and “reasonable” take into account the volume of records requested;
the proximity of the location where the records are stored; and the necessity
for any legal review of the records requested.
         (a)   Request to view public records. The requester may make a request
to view public records. The Public Records Custodian shall prepare the public
records for inspection “promptly” as required by the Ohio Revised Code. The
actual time required to comply with the request may depend on the circumstances
(such as the location of the records, the manner kept or the volume of records
requested).
         (b)   Copies of public records. The requester may make a request to
the Public Records Custodian to have copies of public records made.
         (c)   Transmitting copies of public records. A requester may request
that copies of public records be transmitted to him or her by U.S. Mail or by
any other means of transmission that is available and is conducive to
transmitting the public records. The cost of transmission must be paid by the
requester before the public records will be provided. While the City is under
no obligation to provide records in electronic format, it is the policy of the
City to provide information to the public in the most practical and convenient
manner, considering all of the circumstances. Therefore, if the City receives a
request for information to be made available in an electronic format, such
request will be forwarded to the Public Records Custodian for a determination
as to whether such information will be generated and released in an electronic
format.
      (3)   Each request should be evaluated for an estimated length of time
required to gather the records. Routine requests for records should be
satisfied immediately if feasible to do so. Routine requests include, but are
not limited to, meeting minutes (both in draft and final form), budgets, salary
information, forms and applications, personnel rosters, etc. If fewer than 20
pages of copies are requested or if the records are readily available in an
electronic format that can be e-mailed or downloaded easily, these should be
made as quickly as the equipment allows.
      (4)   All requests for public records must either be satisfied or be
acknowledged in writing by the public office within three business days
following the office’s receipt of the request. If a request is deemed
significantly beyond “routine”such as seeking a voluminous number of copies or
requiring extensive research, the acknowledgement must include the following:
         (a)   An estimated number of business days it will take to satisfy the
request.
         (b)   An estimated cost if copies are requested.
         (c)   Any items within the request that may be exempt from disclosure.
      (5)   Any denial of public records requested must include an explanation,
including legal authority. If portions of a record are public and portions are
exempt, the exempt portions are to be redacted and the rest released. If there
are redactions, each redaction must be accompanied by a supporting explanation,
including legal authority.
   (C)   Fees and Payment. Those seeking public records will be charged only
the actual cost of making copies or printing pictures and shall also pay the
actual cost (e.g. postage) of delivery and other supplies used in mailing,
delivery or transmission of the public record. Payment for public records
requests may be required prior to the actual copying or printing of records.
      Copies made on letter or legal size paper are $0.05 per page. If the
Public Records Custodian uses an outside copying service to make the copies,
the requester will be required to pay the cost of the entire copying job, as
billed by the copying service. Copies that are requested in some format other
than normal letter or legal paper will be “at cost”, without taking into
account employee time spent preparing the copies. (For example, public records
in electronic format placed on a CD will be assessed the cost of the CD, plus
the cost, if any, of creating the electronic copies.)
   Public records will only be copied by the Public Records Custodian or other
authorized officers, employees or representatives. The Public Records Custodian
may use an outside copying service to make the copies, at the Public Records
Custodian’s discretion. Under no circumstances will the requester be permitted
to make the copies himself or herself. The manner of copying is at the
discretion of the Public Records Custodian. Requests to copy a certain number
of public records on a given page, by “reducing” copy size or otherwise, may be
met at the discretion of the Public Records Custodian.
   Individual departments may adopt a policy that if fewer than 10 pages of
copies are requested, no fee will be charged. All requests exceeding 10 pages
will be charged a fee of $0.05 per page for all pages copied. No receipt will
be required to be issued for payments received of less than $1.00.
   Ohio law may provide for specific fees to be charged for certain records
(e.g. police accident reports, $4.00 each, with photographs at an additional
cost, pursuant to R.C. § 5502.12).
(Res. 16-2007. Passed 10-23-07.)
§ 35.04 DENIAL OF A PUBLIC RECORDS REQUEST.
   Under certain circumstances, records are not defined as “public records”
under Ohio law or are exempt from disclosure under federal law. In these
situations, the public record request will be denied on that basis. The Ohio
Revised Code requires that any denial be supported by legal authority. A denial
that is responding to a written public records request will also be given in
writing. Written reasons for denial will not be required for verbal public
records requests. Any denial of public records requested must include an
explanation, including legal authority. If portions of a record are public and
portions are exempt, the exempt portions are to be redacted and the rest
released. If there are redactions, each redaction must be accompanied by a
supporting explanation, including legal authority, unless federal or state law
authorize or requires the redaction.
   The Ohio Revised Code regards certain actions as being “denials” of public
record requests. These situations are handled as follows:
   (A)   Redaction. The Ohio Revised Code defines a “redaction” as “obscuring
or deleting any information that is exempt from the duty to permit public
inspection or copying from an item that otherwise meets the definition of a
“record” in Section 149.011 of the Revised Code.” Examples of redaction are
“blacking out” or “whiting out” or “cutting out” portions of a document.
      When a public record contains information that is not within the
definition of a “public record” as defined by law, or is exempt by law, the
Public Records Custodian will make available that portion of the public record
that does meet the definition of a “public record”. The Public Records
Custodian shall make a copy of the public record, perform the redaction, then
make a copy of that sheet and make the second copy available to the requester.
The requester will not be charged for the first copy made. If practical, the
first copy will be retained by the Public Records Custodian.
   (B)   Requests That Are Ambiguous, Overly Broad, or are Difficult to
Identify the Public Records Requested. At times, a requester may make a public
records request from which the Public Records Custodian cannot determine which
public records are being sought. In such circumstances, the Public Records
Custodian will inform the requester that the public records request is denied,
but will give the requester an opportunity to more accurately describe the
public records sought. If the requester is seeking public records organized in
a certain way, but the public records are not organized in that way, the Public
Records Custodian will inform the requester of the manner that the public
records of the office under discussion are maintained and accessed. The
requester may then submit a public records request that more accurately
reflects the actual organization of the public records sought. (Res. 16- 2007.
Passed 10-23-07.)
§ 35.05 COMPLIANCE.
   The Public Records Custodian reserves the right to consult with legal
counsel prior to the release of any public records. This is to allow the City
to comply with laws regarding the release of certain records. (Res. 16-2007.
Passed 10-23-07.)
§ 35.06 FAILURE TO RESPOND TO A PUBLIC RECORDS REQUEST.
   The City of West Carrollton recognizes the legal and non-legal consequences
of failure to properly respond to a public records request. A public office’s
failure to comply with a request may result in remedies and damages according
to R.C. 149.43.
(Res. 16-2007. Passed 10-23-07.)
CHAPTER 36: COUNCIL RULES AND PROCEDURES
36.01   Preamble
36.02   Meetings
36.03   Officers of Council
36.04   Clerk of Council
36.05   Definition of quorum
36.06   Appointed officials and members of the City staff as they relate to
Council
36.07   Conduct of Council business
36.08   Introduction of legislation
36.09   Voting
36.10   Debate
36.11   Motions
36.12   Amendments
36.13   Robert’s Rules of Order
§ 36.01 PREAMBLE
   No provision or section of these rules which conflicts with, or restricts
those rights provided by the Constitution of the United States, the
Constitution of the State of Ohio, the General Law, the West Carrollton
Municipal Code, or the West Carrollton Charter shall have any force or effect.
(Ord. 3389. Passed 8-26-08.)
§ 36.02 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Definitions
      (1)   "Meeting" means a prearranged gathering of a majority of the
members of a public body for the purpose of discussing public business.
      (2)   "Pre-scheduled meeting" means any pre-arranged regular meeting of
Council or Work Session.
      (3)   "News Media" means any newspaper, magazine of regular and general
circulation and any radio or television station.
   (B)   (1)   City Council will hold no less than one meeting per month,
unless an emergency is declared. Said meeting shall be held on the second or
fourth Tuesday of the month. Said meeting shall be called to order at 6:30 p.m.
in the Council Chambers of the City of West Carrollton or in any other public
place within the corporate limits of the City of West Carrollton. The first
Council meeting in January of each year shall be an organizational meeting of
Council. At such meeting, the newly elected members of Council shall take the
Oath of Office and the Council shall proceed to elect a Deputy Mayor and may
transact any such other business as may come before it.
      (2)   Said meeting may be cancelled by the Mayor or four members of
Council as a result of an emergency declared by City Council, State of Ohio
Officials, County Officials or Federal Government Officials. An emergency would
be any event that would endanger the lives of the citizens or create a risk to
the health, safety and welfare of the citizens or property.
      (3)   In the event there are conditions or a declared emergency that
prevents City Council from meeting as one body in chambers, City Council may
hold said meeting by teleconference/videoconferencing or other such technology
that will meet the "in person" requirement under R.C. § 121.22(C) as well as
all other requirements of Ohio's Open Meeting Act.
   (C)   Other special meetings may be called by the Mayor, or any four members
of Council, provided that notice is given to all members of Council, the Clerk
of Council and the City Manager, at least 24 hours prior to such meetings, when
practical, stating clearly the time, place and purpose of the meeting and
provided the notice is given to persons and news media as provided in
subsections and hereof, Council may, by motion, at any meeting of the Council,
establish another meeting date. Notice will be given as provided above.
   (D)   When any regular meeting of the Council falls due on a legal Federal
holiday, on an election day, or on a traditional holiday, the Council may meet
on a date to be established by Council.
   (E)   All meetings of Council, any committee thereof, and all boards and
commissions of the City shall be open to the public except as otherwise
provided by Ohio statute or by ordinance with respect to executive sessions. A
majority of members of Council shall constitute a quorum at all meetings.
   (F)   Work session meetings of Council shall be held upon call of the Mayor
on Tuesday evenings after the regular Council meeting or as otherwise agreed to
by the majority of Council. Agendas for these meetings shall include an item
"Council/City Manager Communications" to provide time for quick questions and
announcements. First priority of issues shall be given to timely and urgent
issues; second priority will be given to items left from past agendas, and
third priority shall be given to new subjects. It shall be the intent of
Council to not revisit an issue previously discussed for a period of two years
unless otherwise determined by the majority of Council to do so. Work sessions
of Council shall be considered informal meetings for discussion purposes, shall
be properly noticed, open to the public, and only with no formal action being
taken.
   (G)   Executive sessions are not open to the public. An executive session
shall be deemed a private conference of Council if not held during, or
immediately preceding or following, a regular meeting. The decision to hold an
executive session may be made in any of the following ways:
      (1)   By listing it on an agenda of the Council meeting which is
available to persons attending the meeting.
      (2)   By a motion passed by affirmative vote of the members present.
      (3)   By any other method which the Council is willing to use.
      (4)   Council members-elect may be invited to attend executive sessions
only at the invitation of a majority of council.
   The subjects for which an executive session may be held shall include those
described in the Ohio Revised Code 121.22. It shall be sufficient disclosure of
the fact that an executive session has been or will be held and of the subject
of the session if the fact and subject are listed on the meeting agenda, or are
announced in the decision by the Mayor or a motion of the members to hold an
executive session, or are set forth in the minutes. Subjects may be identified
by using the capital letter titles in the following subparagraphs.
         (a)   Personnel.  To consider the appointment, employment, dismissal,
discipline, promotion, demotion, or compensation of a public employee, or
official, or [to consider] the investigation of charges or complaints against a
public employee, official, licensee, or regulated individual, unless the public
employee, official, licensee, or regulated individual requests a public
hearing. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Council shall not hold an
executive session for the discipline of an elected official for conduct related
to the performance of his official duties or for his removal from office.
         (b)   Property.  To consider the purchase of property (real property
and personal property, whether it is tangible or intangible) for public
purposes, or for the sale of property (real or personal property) at
competitive bidding, if premature disclosure of information would give an
unfair competitive or bargaining advantage to a person whose personal, private
interest is adverse to the general public interest.
      If the minutes of the Council show that all meetings and deliberations
have been conducted in compliance with this provision, any instrument executed
by Council purporting to convey, lease, or otherwise dispose of any right,
title, or interest in any public property shall be conclusively presumed to
have been executed in compliance with this provision insofar as title or other
interest of any bona fide purchasers, lessees, or transferees of the property
is concerned.
         (c)   Court Action.  To conduct conferences with the public body's
attorney to discuss pending or imminent court action. Court action is pending
if a lawsuit has been commenced; court action is imminent if it is on the point
of happening or is impending.
         (d)   Collective Bargaining. Preparing for, conducting, or reviewing
negotiations or bargaining sessions with public employees concerning their
compensation or other terms and conditions of their employment.
         (e)   Confidential Matters. Matters required to be kept confidential
by Federal law or rules or state statutes.
         (f)   Security Arrangements. Specialized details of security
arrangements where disclosure of the matters discussed might reveal information
that could be used for the purpose of committing, or avoiding prosecution for,
a violation of the law.
      A resolution, rule, ordinance, or formal action of any kind is invalid
unless adopted in an open meeting of the Council, committee thereof, board or
commission. A resolution, rule, ordinance or formal action adopted in an open
meeting that results from deliberations in a meeting not open to the public is
invalid unless the deliberations were for a purpose specifically authorized
herein.
   (H)   Abstentions - Every member present shall vote when the question is
put, unless the member abstains. If there is a public hearing or any discussion
among members of Council regarding a subject on which a member intends to
abstain from voting, that member should declare the intent to abstain and
should remove himself or herself from the discussion. Any member who abstains
from voting may make a brief statement of the reason for doing so.
   (I)   Minutes of all meetings of the Council, a committee thereof, a board
or commission shall be kept in the office of the Clerk of Council, promptly
recorded and open to the public. They need not be verbatim but instead may be a
summary in form, listing only agenda topics discussed, other matters of
importance, and actions which involved votes of members. Minutes serve as
records of actions, not as actions themselves. Minutes need only reflect the
general subject matter of discussions in executive sessions (as those executive
session subjects are identified by capital letter titles) and shall be inserted
into the Minute book. Minutes found to have errors. omissions or found to be
invalid shall not invalidate the actions recorded in the minutes.
   (J)   Any person may obtain the time and place of all regularly scheduled
meetings by contacting the Clerk of Council, who shall disclose such requested
information.
   (K)   Any person upon request and payment of a fee not to exceed $1.00 per
meeting or a supply of sufficient self-addressed stamped envelopes given to the
Clerk of Council, may receive reasonable advance notification of all meetings
of the Council, committees thereof, or all boards and commissions at which any
specific type of public business is to be discussed. Said person shall specify
to the Clerk of Council the particular meetings for which such notices are
requested. In the event said self-addressed stamped envelopes are not provided
to the Clerk of Council, or said fee is not paid, the Clerk of Council shall
not mail said notices to said person.
   (L)   No meeting of the Council, a committee thereof, a board or commission
shall be held unless at least twenty-four (24) hours advance notice has been
given to news media that have requested notification. Except in the event of an
emergency, the member or members calling the meeting shall notify the news
media that have requested notification immediately of the time, place and
purpose of the meeting. An emergency meeting is a special meeting convened
because a situation requires immediate official action. For this type of
meeting, the member or members calling the meeting must immediately notify all
media outlets
that have requested such notification, as well as all other persons that have
specifically requested such notification, of the time, place and purpose of the
emergency meeting.
   (M)   Immediately upon any notice of meeting required by these Rules having
been given, the following certification shall be completed by the person giving
said notice and said certification shall be filed with the Clerk of Council who
shall maintain a record of said certifications:
CERTIFICATION OF NOTICE
   I, _______________________________________ __ do hereby certify:
   (1)   That I am the _______________________ (TITLE) of the City of West
Carrollton, Ohio; and
   (2)   That on this ______ day of __________________, 20_____, by telephone,
depositing in regular mail addressed to the last known address of the recipient
(cross out one) I gave notice of a meeting of the __________________ (Public
Body) of the City of West Carrollton to the following persons and news media:
(Person certifying the giving of notice.)
(Ord. 3389. Passed 8-26-08; Ord. 3690. Passed 1-12-21; Ord. 3713. Passed 10-26-
21; Ord. 3728. Passed 7-12-22.)
§ 36.03 OFFICERS OF COUNCIL.
   At the first meeting in January after the local election, Council shall
select a Deputy-Mayor in accordance with the City Charter.
Deputy-Mayor and Temporary Chair
   (A)   The Deputy-Mayor shall act as Mayor when the Mayor is absent or unable
to serve.
   (B)   The Deputy-Mayor, when presiding, shall have the same power and duties
as may be prescribed by the Charter, rules of Council, the Municipal Code, and
by the Ohio Revised Code.
   (C)   In the absence of both the Mayor and the Deputy-Mayor, the Council may
appoint from its members a temporary Chair.
   (D)   The temporary Chair, when presiding, shall have the same power and
duties as may be prescribed by the Charter, rules of Council, the Municipal
Code, and by the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 3389. Passed 8-26-08.)
§ 36.04 CLERK OF COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Clerk of Council and/or the Assistant Clerk of Council shall serve
at the discretion of the Council and Council shall provide reasonable
compensation for the services provided.
   (B)   The Clerk of Council and/or the Assistant Clerk of Council shall:
      (1)   Attend all meetings of Council and other meetings upon request of
the Mayor and/or Council.
      (2)   Prepare a record of proceedings of all meetings of Council which
shall be termed the "minutes" and be custodian of such records. All such
proceedings shall be available to the public for inspection. The Clerk shall
prepare a record of proceedings of other meetings upon request.
      (3)   Prepare an agenda for each meeting of Council.
      (4)   The Clerk of Council shall furnish all transcripts, orders, and
certificates, which may be properly required of the Clerk and shall be entitled
to charge for all attested certificates and transcripts, the same fees that are
allowed by law for similar services; provided, that the same shall be furnished
free of charge when ordered by the Council or required by any Councilmember or
City officer, in the prosecution of official duties.
      (5)   Assign numbers, in their proper sequence, to all ordinances and
resolutions.
      (6)   Maintain a permanent record of all ordinances and resolutions, and
by appropriate notation, show subsequent repeal and amendment thereto.
      (7)   Perform all other duties incidental to the office.
      (8)   Perform such other duties as directed by the City Charter, City
Council, the Municipal Code, and the Ohio Revised Code.
   (C)   ASSISTANT CLERK OF COUNCIL - The Assistant Clerk of Council shall
perform such duties as are assigned to her/him by the Clerk of Council and
shall have the same authority and duties as the Clerk of Council in the event
of her/his absence or inability to serve. (Ord. 3389. Passed 8-26-08.)
§ 36.05 DEFINITION OF QUORUM.
   “QUORUM” - a quorum shall be four (4) members of the City Council.
(Ord. 3389. Passed 8-26-08.)
§ 36.06 APPOINTED OFFICIALS AND MEMBERS OF THE CITY STAFF AS THEY RELATE TO
COUNCIL.
   (A)   Appointed officials and Members of City Staff may be requested to
attend meetings of Council and answer questions directed to them by Council,
provided that such requests shall be made through the City Manager in
accordance with the provisions of the City Charter.
   (B)   Mayor
      (1)   The Mayor, Deputy-Mayor, or temporary Chairman shall serve as the
presiding officer of Council, and shall be responsible for the conduct and
order of the meetings of Council.
      (2)   The Mayor shall be considered a member of Council and have the
right to vote on all issues before the Council.
      (3)   The Mayor shall determine which committees shall consider new
business, subject to challenge by majority of Council.
      (4)   When a ruling or order has been made, it may be appealed to Council
on the demand of two members. On such appeal there shall be no debate, but the
member making the appeal may briefly state his reasons for the same, and the
presiding officer shall have the right to a similar statement. A vote of the
majority of the members present or 4 members if all are present in favor of
overriding shall be necessary to override a ruling of order.
      (5)   The Mayor shall sign all ordinances, resolutions and other matters
requiring the approval of Council.
      (6)   The Mayor shall perform all other duties prescribed for the office
by Ordinance or Resolution of Council, by the City Charter, the Municipal Code,
and by the Constitution of the State of Ohio. (Ord. 3389. Passed 8-26-08.)
§ 36.07 CONDUCT OF COUNCIL BUSINESS.
   (A)   The Agenda - An agenda of business to be considered by Council and
copies of all ordinances and resolutions listed thereon and other pertinent
material shall be prepared by the Clerk of Council and mailed or delivered to
each Council member at least 72 hours prior to each regular meeting of Council,
when possible.
      The agenda for a regular meeting shall contain:
      (1)   A listing by title of each ordinance to be considered.
      (2)   A listing by title of each resolution to be considered.
      (3)   A listing of known persons wishing to appear before Council and the
subject matter to be addressed.
      (4)   Any other matters of known business.
   (B)   Order of Business - The presiding officer shall conduct the Council
meeting in the order outlined by the agenda. However, agenda items may be
rearranged by the presiding officer during the meeting to accommodate
presenters, to make timely adjustments, and for other concerns that may arise.
The order of the agenda shall be as follows:
      (1)   Call the meeting to order.
      (2)   Pledge of allegiance to the flag.
      (3)   Roll call.
      (4)   Excuse absent Councilmembers.
      (5)   Action on minutes of previous meetings.
      (6)   Public Hearings.
      (7)   Communications and Presentations.
      (8)   Comments by the Audience - COMMENTS ARE LIMITED TO 5 MINUTES PER
PERSON UNLESS MORE TIME IS GRANTED BY THE MAYOR.
      (9)   Consent Agenda (A member of Council can remove an item for separate
discussion. A second is not required to remove that item)
      (10)   Unfinished Business
      (11)   New Business
      (12)   Officials' Reports:
         Reports by Officers
      (13)   Unscheduled Business
      (14)   Comments by the Audience - COMMENTS ARE LIMITED TO 5 MINUTES PER
PERSON UNLESS MORE TIME IS GRANTED BY THE MAYOR.
      (15)   Comments by Council
      (16)   Work Session (if indicated)
      (17)   Adjourn the meeting.
      Any Council Member may request that a matter of business be placed on the
agenda provided sufficient notice is given the Clerk for its preparation. The
Clerk will receive items for the agenda (not less complete than rough draft
form) until 12 o'clock noon on Thursday preceding a scheduled meeting of
Council. All officers of the municipality and members of the public are urged
to cooperate with the Clerk in making the agenda complete and accurate. Every
effort shall be made to place matters before Council for discussion in a Work
Session prior to placing them on the agenda for a regular meeting of Council.
While nothing in this section will prevent the introduction of new business not
listed on the agenda, Council may require additional time to study any matter
not included on the agenda.
      All matters under the consent agenda are considered by the City Council
to be routine and will be enacted by one motion. Any City Council member may
remove an item from consent by request. No second is required for removal of an
item. Items removed for separate discussion will be considered after the motion
to approve the consent agenda.
   (C)   COMMITTEES - Council shall have the following standing committees
appointed annually by the majority of Council: Coordinating Committee; Special
Studies Committee; and Operations Review Committee. Special committees for
limited purposes may be appointed by the Mayor to exist only for the length of
time required to complete their purpose.
   (D)   COMMITTEE MEETINGS - Committee meetings will be called by the Chairman
of such committee. The Chair shall give notice of the meeting to all members of
the committee.
   Each committee may adopt its own rules of order. In the absence of written
rules, the ordinary parliamentary rules will prevail, as outlined by Robert's
Rules of Order.
   (E)   COMMITTEE REPORTS - Each standing and special committee shall make a
final report, in writing, of its recommendations to Council including minority
reports, if any. Interim reports may be given orally or in writing.
   (F)   COMMITTEE RECORDS - The Clerk of Council shall maintain a record of
all recommendations including minority reports presented to Council by a
committee.
   When an ordinance or resolution is reported on by a committee for the
purpose of being introduced to Council, such prepared legislation must be
approved by the Municipal Attorney as to form, consistency with existing
ordinances, the Charter and constitutional provisions.
   (G)   TRAVEL BY MAYOR AND MEMBERS OF COUNCIL - Mayor and Council members are
to follow same per diem/day for meals rules as outlined for city employees.
COUNCIL MEMBERS/MAYOR WHO ARE RETIRING OR NOT RE-ELECTED MAY NOT TRAVEL AT
CITY'S EXPENSE TO CONFERENCES UNLESS APPROVED BY MAJORITY OF COUNCIL. ALL
OVERNIGHT TRAVEL SHALL BE APPROVED IN ADVANCE BY A MAJORITY OF COUNCIL.
   (H)   PUBLIC HEARINGS - Public hearings shall be held in conformance with
provisions of the City Charter, Municipal Code, the Ohio Revised Code, Ohio
Sunshine Laws, and when in the opinion of the Council, the public interest is
served by such a hearing.
   The presiding officer shall conduct such public hearings as may be held, and
shall set forth rules of procedure and conduct for the hearing.
   Notwithstanding the above, the following general rules shall be in force
during any public hearing:
      (1)   The purpose of a public hearing is to hear both sides of an issue,
unruly outbursts will not be tolerated; courtesy shall be extended to all
speakers on the question.
      (2)   Speakers shall limit their remarks to the question at hand; in
order to help insure that as many views as possible be recognized.
      (3)   All questions and comments shall be addressed to the presiding
officer.
      (4)   No more than 10 minutes shall be given to any speaker, unless
waived by the Chair.
      (5)   Unless waived by a majority of Councilmembers present, a public
hearing shall be limited to one (1) hour, with as near as possible, half the
time given to persons representing each view.
   (I)   CONDUCT OF AUDIENCE - The following procedure should be followed by
members of the audience who wish to speak at any public meeting or public
hearing and who are granted the opportunity to do so.
      (1)   Please wait to be recognized by the Mayor before speaking.
      (2)   Upon being recognized, please rise.
      (3)   If there is a podium or other location at which persons addressing
the Council are to speak, the person who has been recognized should leave his
or her seat and proceed to that speaking location.
      (4)   Before speaking, a member of the audience should identify himself
or herself by name and address, and should disclose if that address is within
the City of West Carrollton.
      (5)   Customarily, proponents will be recognized first, followed by
persons who oppose the matter or issue, with a subsequent opportunity for
rebuttal.
      (6)   Except when leave is granted by the Mayor, there is a time limit of
five minutes for each speaker in the audience. This does not apply to the
person or organization who or which has filed the application, variance request
or other matter being heard by the Council.
      (7)   Please avoid repeating points made by earlier speakers. The Mayor
has the right to terminate comments that are redundant.
      (8)   Comments from persons in the audience should be addressed to the
Mayor, not to proponents or opponents of the issue, not to city staff, and not
to other members of the audience.
      (9)   A public meeting or a public hearing is an opportunity for Council
to receive input from citizens of the community. It is not the place for a
debate between persons in the audience and the applicant, city staff or members
of Council. Debating tactics such as demanding answers to questions framed in
favor of the speaker are frowned upon and may be prohibited. Since the meetings
are for input, not an instant dialogue or debate, questions to which Council
chooses to respond may well be answered at a subsequent meeting.
      (10)   Customarily, everyone will be given an opportunity to speak before
any other person is allowed to speak twice. This does not apply to the
applicant's or proponent's right to rebuttal.
      (11)   The Council reserves the right to put an end to that portion of
any meeting or hearing in which comments from the audience are allowed, so as
to leave adequate time for Council to proceed with its other business.
(Ord. 3389. Passed 8-26-08.)
§ 36.08 INTRODUCTION OF LEGISLATION.
   All proposed ordinances and formal resolutions shall be sponsored by a
member of Council. All such proposed legislation shall be presented in writing
and shall bear the name of the sponsor. The presiding officer may, and shall
upon motion from the floor, refer proposed legislation to a committee for study
and recommendation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon vote of Council present
and voting, proposed legislation may be brought directly to the floor for
council action.
(Ord. 3389. Passed 8-26-08.)
§ 36.09 VOTING.
   Voting on all proposed legislation and motions shall be oral and in open
meetings of Council. Voting need not be by roll call unless specifically
requested by a member of Council. DISCUSSION OF THE ISSUE SHALL BE REQUESTED BY
THE PRESIDING OFFICER AND TAKE PLACE BEFORE THE ROLL IS CALLED. ROLL SHOULD NOT
BE INTERRUPTED UNLESS A PROCEDURAL QUESTION IS RAISED. If by roll call the
Clerk shall call the roll and each present Councilmember shall respond "yes",
"no" or "abstain." No other comment shall be considered proper during the
voting. The order of voting by the Council members shall rotate with each
successive meeting, however, the Mayor shall always vote last. After the voting
is completed, the presiding officer shall announce the result.
   Except as otherwise provided in these rules, the Charter, the Municipal Code
or the Ohio Revised Code, a simple majority of members present shall carry any
motion, ordinance or resolution. A member who abstains shall be counted for the
purpose of determining a quorum, but no vote shall be recorded for that member
on the issue from which the member abstained.
   The vote of any member of Council shall not be questioned. (Ord. 3389.
Passed 8-26-08.)
§ 36.10 DEBATE.
   The presiding officer may control debate according to the following rules:
   (A)   No Councilmember shall be permitted to speak longer than ten minutes
on any motion.
   (B)   While members of Council may yield to other members, the limitation
outlined in subsection (A) still prevails.
   (C)   The presiding officer may refuse the floor to any person when the
tactics are obviously dilatory and not in the best interest of Council.
   (D)   The above rules may be waived in the normal manner of challenge to the
chair.
(Ord. 3389. Passed 8-26-08.)
§ 36.11 MOTIONS.
   (A)   When a question is before Council or under discussion, or a motion has
been made, no motion shall be proper except the following:
      (1)   Motion to adjourn.
      (2)   Motion to table until stated future time.
      (3)   Request that discussion end and vote be called.
      (4)   Motion to refer to standing or special committee.
      (5)   Motion to amend motion under discussion.
      (6)   Motion to postpone action for an indefinite time. A motion to
postpone indefinitely shall not be entertained by the presiding officer when in
conflict with provisions of the Municipal Code or the Ohio Revised Code.
   (B)   Vote without Discussion. Relative to the motions listed under
subsection (A), motions will go immediately to a vote without discussion,
except for a brief explanation by the person making such motion.
   (C)   A motion requesting that the discussion end and a vote be taken will
not be proper until all members have had the opportunity to be heard on the
motion in main. Once this has been accomplished, the motion will go to a vote
without discussion, except for a brief explanation by the person requesting the
motion.
   (D)   A motion to amend is susceptible to one amendment. An amendment, once
rejected, may not be moved again in the same form.
   (E)   If a motion to postpone action for an indefinite time is carried, the
principal question shall be declared lost.
   (F)   Motion to reconsider. A motion to reconsider may be made only by a
member who had voted with the prevailing side.
   (G)   A motion to remove any matter from the table, or to remove any matter
from committee, shall be in order at any succeeding meeting. Such motion shall
go to a vote without discussion except for a brief explanation by the members
so moving.
   (H)   All motions shall require a second.
(Ord. 3389. Passed 8-26-08.)
§ 36.12 AMENDMENTS.
   These rules may be amended or altered or new rules adopted by a vote of the
majority of all members elected at any meeting of the Council to which the
subject has been referred at a previous meeting.
(Ord. 3389. Passed 8-26-08.)
§ 36.13 ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER.
   In the absence of any rule upon the matter of business, the Council shall be
governed by "Robert's Rules of Order."
(Ord. 3389. Passed 8-26-08.)
CHAPTER 37: GENERAL FEE SCHEDULE
   EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance 3437, passed December 22, 2009, provides for the
following: By virtue of the authority vested in the City Council by the Charter
for the City of West Carrollton, all of the rates and fees set forth in Chapter
37, the General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the City of West
Carrollton shall be subject to an automatic annual increase equal to the
percentage obtained by averaging the national inflation rate from the United
States Labor Department, Bureau of Labor Statistics, for the previous three
years. All rates and fees $10.00 or less shall be rounded to the nearest $0.10
and all rates and fees greater than $10.00 shall be rounded to the nearest
dollar. This increase shall be implemented by the City of West Carrollton City
Manager each year without further action by this Council. The first such
increase shall take effect December 31, 2009 and each increase thereafter shall
take place no later than March 31 of each year, commencing with March 31, 2010.
   Ordinance 3443, passed February 23, 2009 provides that Ordinance 3437 shall
not be applied to Section
37.03 of Chapter 37 of the Codified Ordinances during calendar years 2010, 2011
and 2012, the increased rates set forth in Section
37.03 shall be the only increases applicable to Section
37.03 of Chapter 37 in 2010.
   Ordinance 3445, passed March 9, 2010 provides that Ordinance 3437 shall not
be applied to Section 37.14 of Chapter 37 of the Codified Ordinances during
calendar years 2010, 2011 or 2012, the increased rates set forth in Section
37.14 shall be the only increases applicable to Section
37.14 of Chapter 37 in 2010.
   Ordinance 3437 providing for annual increases to the fee schedule shall not
be applied to Sections
37.03,
37.04,
 37.06,
37.07,
37.12,
 37.13, and
37.14 of Chapter 37 of the Codified Ordinances during calendar year 2013.
   Ordinance 3692, passed March 9, 2021 provides that Chapter 37 and the rates
and fees for services and permits of the City of West Carrollton are to remain
unchanged for the remainder of fiscal year 2021.
Section
37.01   General provisions - when check not honored by bank (§
10.08).
37.02   General provisions - general penalty (§
10.99).
37.03   Water rates within the City. (§
50.02).
37.04   Sewer rates within the City (§
50.03).
37.05   Water and sewer service charges - additional fees included in water and
sewer bills (§
50.07).
37.06   Water and sewer service charges - schedule of fire line services (§
50.12).
37.07   Water and sewer service charges - purchase and installation of water
meters from the City (§
50.28).
37.08   Water and sewer service charges - penalty (§
50.99).
37.09   Water and sewer tap fees; regulations - water tap fees (§
51.02).
37.10   Water and sewer tap fees; regulations - sewer tap fees (§
51.03).
37.11   Water and sewer tap fees; regulations - permit for construction water
(§
51.11).
37.12   Garbage and trash removal - on-call refuse collection service (§
53.09).
37.13   Garbage and trash removal - grass and lawn debris collection and
disposal (§
53.10).
37.14   Garbage and trash removal - waste disposal fee (§
53.12).
37.15   Wastewater pretreatment - fees (§
56.04).
37.16   Administration; enforcement - leaving junk and other vehicles on
private or public property without permission or notification (§
70.13).
37.17   Wild and dangerous exotic animals - registration of wild or dangerous
exotic animals (§
90.15 - §
90.18).
37.18   Street and sidewalk excavations and obstructions - permit fees (§
92.03).
37.19   Emergency services - fees; policies (§
98.01).
37.20   Solicitors - application information; card, issuance and term (§
110.02).
37.21   Taxicabs - taxicab license fee (§
112.06).
37.22   Alarm systems - penalty (§
115.99).
37.23   Plan review fee schedule for construction under the Ohio Building Code
(§
150.05).
37.24   Building Code - plan review schedule under the Residential Code of Ohio
(§
150.06).
37.25   Building Code - permit fee schedules (§
150.07).
37.251   Sign Code Administrative Fees (
153.18(g)(3) and
153.18(h)).
37.26   Building Code - moving building - fee required (§
150.25).
37.27   Building Code - fences and walls - permit, plan and inspection (§
150.61).
37.28   Engineering review - site grading and drainage (§
156.39(B)).
37.29   Fees for land usage applications - fees for applications (§
157.01).
37.30   Emergency measures - costs of emergency repairs (§
158.09(E)).
37.31   Property maintenance re-inspection fee (§
158.13).
37.32   Trees, weeds and grasses - assessment of costs by City (§
158.16(D)(5)).
37.33   Rubbish and garbage (§
158.21(D)).
37.34   Vacation of streets, alleys, and utility easements (Resolution No. 9-
91).
37.35   Mobile Food Vendor Fees (§
154.16.11).
37.36   Late Fee - Residential Rental Registration and Education Program Fees
(§
158.50(A)).
37.37   Hookah bar license fee (§
154.16.12).
37.38   Massage services establishment permit fees.
37.39   Small cell facility and wireless support structure fees (§
99.09).
37.40   Public nuisance-assessment of costs by the city (§ 160.18).
§ 37.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS - WHEN CHECK NOT HONORED BY BANK (§ 10.08).
   The City shall assess a handling charge of ($33) to any person, corporation,
association, or other entity for any check submitted to the City which is not
honored by the bank for any reason and the account for which such check was
submitted for payment will revert to the same status as though no payment was
received.
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20; Ord. 3720. Passed 3-1-22; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-28-23.)
§ 37.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS - GENERAL PENALTY (§ 10.99).
   The fine for violation of any municipal ordinance without a specific fee or
fine shall be ($130) per violation.
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20; Ord. 3720. Passed 3-1-22; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-28-23.)
§ 37.03 WATER RATES WITHIN THE CITY (§ 50.02)
   Effective at the beginning of the first quarter water billing of 2023, water
rates shall be:
   (A)   The quarterly rates for metered water furnished and supplied within
the City within its corporate limits shall be as follows:
 
0 through 10,000 gallons       Minimum Charge
10,001 through 750,000 gallons ($7.23) per 1,000 gallons
Over 750,000 gallons           ($5.45) per 1,000 gallons
 
      (1)   These rates apply to residential, commercial, industrial, and all
other kinds of usage.
      (2)   Regardless of the meter reading, however, the quarterly charge for
water service, including 0 through 10,000 gallons, shall not be less than the
following minimum rates based on meter size:
Meter Size Cost
Meter Size  Cost
5/8" - 3/4" ($65.95)
1"          ($174.73)
1 1/4"      ($261.51)
1 ½"       ($348.27)
2"          ($557.70)
3"          ($1,045.99)
4"          ($1,743.70)
6"          ($3,487.39)
8"          ($5,580.53)
10"         ($8,021.94)
 
   (B)   Water services furnished to premises not under individual water meters
shall be charged as follows:
      (1)    ($64.29) minimum per living unit per quarter for multiple-family
structures.
      (2)    ($64.29) minimum per structure for community buildings, swimming
pools, accessory buildings, and all other buildings associated with multiple-
family developments.
      (3)   ($64.29) minimum per mobile home in a mobile home park.
      (4)   The above minimum rates apply where the total metered usage divided
by the total number of living units and structures is less than 10,000 gallons
per quarter. All usage in excess of the aggregate minimum shall be billed based
on the total usage.
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20; Ord. 3720. Passed 3-1-22; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-28-23.)
§ 37.04 SEWER RATES WITHIN THE CITY (§ 50.03)
   Effective at the beginning of the first quarter sewer billing period of
2020, the quarterly rates for sewer provided by the City within its corporate
limits shall be as follows:
(water usage not tributary to sanitary sewer may be separately metered at
owner's expense to avoid billing for sewer)
   (A)   Sewer rates shall be based on water usage as follows:
 
Water Usage
0 through 10,000 gallons ($59.01) minimum
Over 10,000 gallons      ($4.25) per 1,000 gallons
 
   (B)   Commercial or industrial sewer users not under the City or Montgomery
Counter meter control shall have sanitary sewage flow estimated at the ratio of
35 gallons per day per employee. The number of employees shall be updated
periodically by the City. Nothing herein stated shall constitute approval to
discharge industrial or commercial wastes into the municipal sewer system.
   (C)   Total water usage during the third quarter bill shall be discounted by
twenty-five percent (25%) of the total meter reading for those periods in
determining the sewer change for that quarter, except as follows:
      (1)   If a water has a separate meter to avoid billing for sewer and
water usage not tributary to the sanitary sewer as provided in this section,
then the 25% discount shall not apply and such water user's sewer charge shall
be based on all water that it tributary to the sanitary sewer.
      (2)   The 25% discount provided for herein shall apply only to
residential water users.
   (D)   Multi-family, commercial, and industrial units not under City meter
control may have sanitary sewage flow estimated which will be based on similar
multi-family, commercial, or industrial units under City meter control whenever
the City determines it would be possible or impracticable to actually read such
meter.
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20; Ord. 3720. Passed 3-1-22; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-28-23.)
§ 37.05 WATER AND SEWER SERVICE CHARGES - ADDITIONAL FEES INCLUDED IN WATER AND
SEWER BILLS (§ 50.07)
   The following special services shall be charged to a customer's water or
sewer bill with the fees indicated:
   (A)   Posting Fee. ($54)
   (B)   Fee for Testing Meter Accuracy. ($93.00)
   (C)   Emergency Water Shut Off Fee. ($107) per occurrence.
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20; Ord. 3720. Passed 3-1-22; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-28-23.)
§ 37.06 WATER AND SEWER SERVICE CHARGES - SCHEDULE OF FIRE LINE SERVICES (§
50.12)
   (A)   Unmetered fire line services installed on private property shall be
subject to the following charges:
Size Rate/Quarter
Size Rate/Quarter
2"   ($23)
3"   ($32)
4"   ($39)
6"   ($66)
8"   ($109)
10"  ($162)
12"  ($207)
 
   (B)   A charge of ($6.48) per quarter shall be applied to each unmetered
fire hydrant located on private property which is connected to the city water
supply.
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20; Ord. 3720. Passed 3-1-22; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-28-23.)
§ 37.07 WATER AND SEWER SERVICE CHARGES - PURCHASE AND INSTALLATION OF WATER
METERS FROM THE CITY (§ 50.28)
   There is established the following fees for the purchase and installation of
water meters acquired from the city:
 
Meter Size          Meter Cost Installation Total
3/4"                ($338)     ($49)        ($387)
1"                  ($879)     ($49)        ($928)
1 ½"               ($879)     ($49)        ($928)
2"                  ($1,127)   ($70)        ($1,197)
3" Turbo and larger                         (See Note Below)
 
NOTE:   METERS FOR SERVICES OF 3 INCHES OR LARGER WILL BE TURBO TYPE, AND THE
INSTALLATION WILL INCLUDE A STRAINER IN ADVANCE OF THE METER. THE METER AND
STRAINER FEE TO BE PAID WILL BE THE CITY'S ACTUAL COST PLUS 5%. (THE CITY WILL
ACQUIRE THE METER AND STRAINER FROM THE REGULAR SUPPLIER.) INSTALLATION WILL BE
BY THE OWNER IN CONFORMANCE WITH CITY REQUIREMENTS.
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20; Ord. 3720. Passed 3-1-22; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-28-23.)
§ 37.08 WATER AND SEWER SERVICE CHARGES - PENALTY (§ 50.99)
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
($67) for each offense.
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20; Ord. 3720. Passed 3-1-22; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-28-23.)
§ 37.09 WATER AND SEWER TAP FEES; REGULATIONS - WATER TAP FEES (§ 51.02)
   (A)   The fee for a water tap into the city water system shall be as
follows:
3/4" Meter ($657)
1" Meter   ($883)
1 ½" Meter($1,339)
2" Meter   ($2,231)
3" Meter   ($3,875)
4" Meter   ($6,375)
6" Meter   ($11,666)
8" Meter   ($18,632)
 
   (B)   Anything not covered by these provisions shall be subject to the
control and fee fixed by the legislative body.
   (C)   Existing taps that are reused shall be charged a ($67) inspection fee.
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20; Ord. 3720. Passed 3-1-22; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-28-23.)
§ 37.10 WATER AND SEWER TAP FEES; REGULATIONS - SEWER TAP FEES (§ 51.03)
   (A)   The fee for a sewer tap into the city sewer system shall be based on
meter size and such fee shall be as follows:
3/4" Meter ($617)
1" Meter   ($1,078)
1 ½" Meter($2,037)
2" Meter   ($3,086)
3" Meter   ($4,336)
4" Meter   ($7,180)
6" Meter   ($14,293)
8" Meter   ($22,833)
 
   (B)   Anything not covered by the provisions herein shall be subject to the
control and fee fixed by Council.
   (C)   Existing taps that are reused shall be charged a ($67) inspection fee.
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20; Ord. 3720. Passed 3-1-22; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-28-23.)
§ 37.11 WATER AND SEWER TAP FEES; REGULATIONS - PERMIT FOR CONSTRUCTION WATER
(§ 51.11)
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation constructing a building or buildings
for which a water tap into the municipal system is required shall secure from
the city a permit for construction water, the fee for which shall be based upon
the total estimated construction cost of the building or buildings according to
the following schedule.
 
Construction Permit Fee
Costs
Up to and    The current minimum charge in effect for a 5/8 inch to 3/4 inch. (See §
including    50.02)
$80,000
$80,001 and  The current minimum charge as above plus ($0.27) per $1,000 of cost or
above        fraction thereof in excess of $80,000
 
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation requesting temporary water usage for
an existing building construction or maintenance project shall submit a fire
hydrant meter deposit of ($1,052) (refundable). Water usage shall be the
current minimum charge in effect for a 5/8" - 3/4" meter, plus the current
additional charge per 1,000 gallons used over the minimum 10,000 gallons.
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20; Ord. 3720. Passed 3-1-22; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-28-23.)
§ 37.12 GARBAGE AND TRASH REMOVAL - ON-CALL REFUSE COLLECTION SERVICE (§ 53.09)
   (A)   The charge for on-call refuse collection service shall be ($23) for
items that can be handled by a maximum of two employees without the need of
motorized equipment.
   (B)   Unscheduled pickups that are invoiced due to nonpayment shall also be
assessed an administrative fee of ($32).
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20; Ord. 3720. Passed 3-1-22; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-28-23.)
§ 37.13 GARBAGE AND TRASH REMOVAL - GRASS AND LAWN DEBRIS COLLECTION AND
DISPOSAL (§ 53.10)
   The charge for each lawn sticker for any bag will be ($.75).
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20.)
§ 37.14 GARBAGE AND TRASH REMOVAL - WASTE DISPOSAL FEE (§ 53.12).
   Effective at the beginning of the first quarter billing of 2023, the fee for
refuse collection service shall be ($57.43) per quarter.
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20; Ord. 3720. Passed 3-1-22; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-28-23.)
§ 37.15 WASTEWATER PRETREATMENT - FEES (§ 56.04)
   The cost of engineering review for site grading and development plans shall
be the actual cost which the City paid engineering consultants to review the
plans and specifications.
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18.)
§ 37.16 ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCEMENT - LEAVING JUNK AND OTHER VEHICLES ON
PRIVATE OR PUBLIC PROPERTY WITHOUT PERMISSION OR NOTIFICATION (§ 70.13)
   Fees for abandoned junk motor vehicles shall be the actual costs incurred by
the Municipality in disposing of an abandoned junk motor vehicle, less any
money accruing to the Municipality from the disposal of the vehicle.
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18.)
§ 37.17 WILD AND DANGEROUS EXOTIC ANIMALS - REGISTRATION OF WILD OR DANGEROUS
EXOTIC ANIMALS (§ 90.15 - § 90.18)
   No longer permitted in the city limits per Section
90.15-
90.18 of the Codified Ordinances (2013).
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18.)
§ 37.18 STREET AND SIDEWALK EXCAVATIONS AND OBSTRUCTIONS - PERMIT FEES (§
92.03)
(A) Excavation for downspout drain, gas, electric, steam, water, sewer or
other connections in a street, sidewalk, alley, public way, or places not ($33)
specifically mentioned;
(B) For construction, reconstruction, or relocation of any public utility
conduit, line, or main per 500 lineal feet or fraction thereof, including
any manholes constructed with the above mentioned line or main and being  ($33)
an integral part thereof.
A manhole being defined as an underground chamber of less than 72 square
feet;
(C) For temporarily storing any building material or personal property in
a street, sidewalk, alley, public way, or place during building           ($33)
operation. For blockading a street, alley, public way, or place (per
day);
(D) For constructing or reconstructing sidewalks;                         ($33)
(E) For constructing or reconstructing curbs and gutter;                  ($33)
(F) For a new permanent driveway approach or reconstructing an existing   ($33)
driveway approach;
(G) For a temporary driveway approach over curbs and sidewalks;           ($33)
 
Double Fee When Work is Started Before Obtaining a Permit
   
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20; Ord. 3720. Passed 3-1-22; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-28-23.)
 
§ 37.19 EMERGENCY SERVICES - FEES; POLICIES (§ 98.01)
   The following fees are hereby established to be charged for the provision of
public safety services at the scenes of motor vehicle accidents and other
emergency services provided by the City:
 
Level of Service:                                                    Fee:
Scene safety and investigation                                       ($573)
Scene safety, extinguishment, investigation, lighting, clean-up, and ($651)
material
Scene safety, extrication, investigation, lighting, clean-up and     ($2,365 )
material
Scene safety, extrication, use of Care Flight, investigation, clean- ($2,759 )
up and material
 
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20; Ord. 3720. Passed 3-1-22; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-28-23.)
§ 37.20 SOLICITORS - APPLICATION INFORMATION; CARD, ISSUANCE AND TERM (§
110.02)
   Identification card application fee is ($67).
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20; Ord. 3720. Passed 3-1-22; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-28-23.)
§ 37.21 TAXICABS - TAXICAB LICENSE FEE (§ 112.06)
   Taxicab license application fee is ($12) for each taxicab.
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-28-23.)
§ 37.22 ALARM SYSTEMS - PENALTY (§ 115.99)
   (A)   Fee for fourth false alarm in any twelve-month period is ($33).
   (B)   Fee for fifth false alarm in any twelve-month period is ($67).
   (C)   Fee for sixth false alarm in any twelve-month period is ($98).
   (D)   Fee for seventh false alarm in any twelve-month period is ($130).
   (E)   Fee for eighth or more false alarm in any twelve-month period ($164).
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20; Ord. 3720. Passed 3-1-22; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-28-23.)
§ 37.23 PLAN REVIEW FEE SCHEDULE FOR CONSTRUCTION UNDER THE OHIO BUILDING CODE
(§ 150.05)
   (A)   The fee for a plan review shall be at the current hourly rate of the
city's designated plans examiner for each hour or part thereof.
   (B)   The plan review fee is designed to reflect costs incurred for this
service, and the fee is nonrefundable.
   (C)   The applicant for any Zoning Certificate for new construction of,
addition to, or demolition of a principal structure within the Heritage
District and the Conservation District shall pay the City a plan review fee for
the cost of architectural review of the proposal as required by Sections
154.10.481 through
154.10.502 and
154.15.01 through
154.15.10. This cost shall be the actual cost which the City paid the
architectural consultant to review the proposal and shall be paid at the time
the permit is approved by the City.
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18.)
§ 37.24 BUILDING CODE - PLAN REVIEW SCHEDULE UNDER THE RESIDENTIAL CODE OF OHIO
(§ 150.06)
   (A)   The fee for a plan examination of one, two, and three family
structures shall be at the current hourly rate of the city’s designated plans
examiner for each hour or part thereof.
   (B)   The applicant for any Zoning Certificate for new construction of,
addition to, or demolition of a principal structure within the Heritage
District and the Conservation District shall pay the City a plan review fee for
the cost of architectural review of the proposal as required by Sections
154.10.492 and 154.15. This cost shall be the actual cost which the City paid
the architectural consultant to review the proposal and shall be paid at the
time the permit is approved by the City.
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20; Ord. 3718. Passed 1-11-22.)
§ 37.25 BUILDING CODE - PERMIT FEE SCHEDULES (§ 150.07)
   The following permit fees shall apply:
   (A)   Building Permit Fees.
 
3% State Fee  Applied for All Commercial Use Groups
1% State Fee    Applied for All Residential Use Groups
Double Fee      When work is started before obtaining the required permit
 
PERMIT TYPE FEE
PERMIT TYPE                          FEE
Addition, New Construction, Remodel, $283 plus $11 per 100 square feet
Repair
Deck                                 $195
Demolition                           $130
Fire Suppression                     $155 plus $3.00 per 100 square feet of
                                     affected area
Fire Alarm Inspection                $65
Occupancy                            $65
Re-inspection Fee                    $65 per inspection
Roof                                 $65
 
   (B)   Zoning Permit Fees.
 
3% State Fee Applied for All Commercial Use Groups
1% State Fee Applied for All Residential Use Groups
Double Fee   When work is started before obtaining the required permit
 
PERMIT TYPE FEE
PERMIT TYPE                                FEE
Accessory structures (200 sq. ft. or less) $39
Antenna                                    $39
Dumpster Enclosure                         $39
Fence                                      $39
Home occupation                            $39
Mobile Food Vendor                         $52 annual license fee
Temporary Use                              $65
 
   (C)   Mechanical Permit Fees.
 
3% State Fee Applied for All Commercial Use Groups
1% State Fee Applied for All Residential Use Groups
Double Fee   When work is started before obtaining the required permit
 
 
Inspection Fee    $65 per inspection
Re-inspection fee $65 per re-inspection
 
   (D)   Electrical Permit Fees.
 
3% State Fee      Applied for All Commercial Use Groups
1% State Fee      Applied for All Residential Use Groups
Double Fee        When work is started before obtaining the required permit
Inspection Fee    $65 per inspection
Re-inspection Fee $65 per re-inspection
 
   (E)   Sign Permit Fees.
 
3% State Fee Applied to all Commercial Use Groups
Double Fee   When work is started before obtaining the required permit
 
 
TYPE OF SIGN        FEE
Sign - Wall         $65
Sign - Freestanding $130
Temporary Sign      $39 plus a $78 refundable deposit
 
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20; Ord. 3718. Passed 1-11-22; Ord. 3720. Passed 3-1-22; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-
28-23.)
§ 37.251 SIGN CODE ADMINISTRATIVE FEES (153.18(g)(3) and 153.18(h)).
   The property owner and current occupant shall be jointly and severally
obligated to reimburse the City immediately for all third party and
administrative expenses incurred in removing any sign, including but not
limited to costs to the City for the time of City employees. The administrative
fee for city inspection and administrative costs shall be ($179).
 
3% State Fee Applied for All Commercial Use Groups
1% State Fee Applied for All Residential Use Groups
Double Fee   When work is started before obtaining the required permit
 
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-28-23.)
§ 37.26 BUILDING CODE - MOVING BUILDING - FEE REQUIRED (§ 150.25)
   No building moving permit shall be granted until a fee of ($67) is paid to
the City by the applicant therefore.
 
3% State Fee Applied for All Commercial Use Groups
1% State Fee Applied for All Residential Use Groups
Double Fee   When work is started before obtaining the required permit
 
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20; Ord. 3720. Passed 3-1-22; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-28-23.)
§ 37.27 BUILDING CODE - FENCES AND WALLS - PERMIT, PLAN, AND INSPECTION (§
150.61)
   The permit fees for fence permits shall be ($40) for each installation.
 
3% State Fee Applied for All Commercial Use Groups
1% State Fee Applied for All Residential Use Groups
Double Fee   When work is started before obtaining the required permit
 
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20; Ord. 3720. Passed 3-1-22; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-28-23.)
§ 37.28 ENGINEERING REVIEW - SITE GRADING AND DRAINAGE (§ 156.39(B))
   The costs of engineering review for site grading and drainage development
plans shall be the actual costs which the city paid engineering consultants to
review the plans and specifications or the rate of ($76) per hour (1 hour
minimum) for the time City staff spends reviewing the plans.
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20; Ord. 3720. Passed 3-1-22; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-28-23.)
§ 37.29 FEES FOR LAND USAGE APPLICATIONS - FEES FOR APPLICATIONS (§ 157.01)
   (A)   The following fees for applications presented to the City are hereby
established:
      (1)   Preliminary Subdivision Plan or Minor Change to PUD Plan. $126 per
plan. In addition, the applicant shall pay the City a plan review fee for the
cost of engineering review of the preliminary subdivision plan. This plan
review fee shall be the actual cost which the City paid the engineering
consultant(s) to review the plan and shall be paid at the time the preliminary
subdivision plan has been approved by the City.
      (2)   Preliminary PUD Plan: $193 per plan. In addition, the applicant
shall pay the City a plan review fee for the cost of engineering review of the
preliminary PUD plan. This plan review fee shall be the actual cost which the
City paid the engineering consultant(s) to review the plan and shall be paid at
the time the preliminary PUD plan has been approved by the City.
      (3)   Record plan, final PUD plan, major change to PUD plan, site plan,
and public improvement construction inspection.
         (a)   $193 per plan, plus 4% of the performance bond if required by
law, adjusted to the actual inspection cost if less than 4%. However, if the
public improvements are constructed as part of any development not requiring a
performance bond, a fee of 4% of the approved estimated cost of construction
shall be payable before City approval of the construction drawings. This fee
shall be adjusted to the actual inspection cost if less than 4%.
          (b)   The applicant shall also pay the City a plan review fee for the
cost of engineering and/or landscaping review. This plan review fee shall be
the actual cost which the City paid engineering and/or landscaping consultants
to review the plans and shall be paid at the time the plan has been approved by
the City.
      (4)   City Center District Site Development Plan:
         (a)   New construction, additions greater than 50 percent of the area
of the principal structure, and site improvements: $193 per site development
plan, plus 4% of the performance bond if required by law, adjusted to the
actual inspection cost if less than 4%. However, if the public improvements are
constructed as part of any development not requiring a performance bond, a fee
of 4% of the approved estimated cost of construction shall be payable before
City approval of the construction drawings. This fee shall be adjusted to the
actual inspection cost if less than 4%.
         (b)   Additions less than 50 percent of the area of the principal
structure, signage and landscaping/ screening: $127 per site development plan
and 4% of the performance bond if required by law, adjusted to the actual
inspection cost if less than 4%. However, if the public improvements are
constructed as part of any development not requiring a performance bond, a fee
of 4% of the approved estimated cost of construction shall be payable before
city approval of the construction drawings. This fee shall be adjusted to the
actual inspection cost if less than 4%.
         (c)   The applicant shall also pay the City a plan review fee for the
cost of engineering and/or landscaping review of site development plans. This
plan review fee shall be the actual cost which the City paid engineering and/or
landscaping consultants to review the plans and shall be paid at the time the
plan has been approved by the City.
      (5)   Approval without a plat (lot splits, five or less lots): $32 for
the first lot and $11 for each lot thereafter, not to exceed a maximum fee of
$96.
      (6)   Performance bond and subdivider contract preparation: $32 for each
performance bond and subdivider contract combination.
       (7)   Zoning map or text amendment: $193. In addition, the applicant
shall pay the city a plan review fee for the cost of engineering review of the
zoning map amendment. This plan review fee shall be the actual cost which the
City paid the engineering consultants to review the plan and shall be paid at
the time the application has been approved by the City.
      (8)   Conditional use permit: $127. In addition, the applicant shall pay
the City a plan review fee for the cost of engineering and/or landscaping
review of the conditional use permit application, if such review is determined
necessary. This plan review fee shall be the actual cost which the City paid
the engineering and/or landscaping consultants to review the plan and shall be
paid at the time the application has been approved by the City.
      (9)   Variance application: $96. In addition, the applicant shall pay the
City a plan review fee for the cost of engineering and/or landscaping review of
the variance application, if such review is determined necessary. This plan
review fee shall be the actual cost which the City paid the engineering and/or
landscaping consultants to review the plan and shall be paid at the time the
application has been approved by the City.
      (10)   Appeal to Board of Zoning Appeals: $96. In addition, the applicant
shall pay the City a plan review fee for the cost of engineering and/or
landscaping review of the appeal, if such review is determined necessary. This
plan review fee shall be the actual cost which the City paid the engineering
and/or landscaping consultants to review the plan and shall be paid at the time
the application has been approved by the City.
      (11)   Special Sign Package: $96. In addition, the applicant shall pay
the city a plan review fee for the cost of engineering and/or landscaping
review of the appeal, if such review is determined necessary. This plan review
fee shall be the actual cost which the city paid the engineering and/or
landscaping consultants to review the plan and shall be paid at the time the
application has been approved by the city. This fee shall be in addition to any
required sign permit fees.
   (B)   The fees as established shall be used by the City to defray the costs
of processing such applications and shall, unless otherwise indicated, be paid
by the applicant to the City at the time of filing the application with the
City.
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20; Ord. 3718. Passed 1-11-22; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-28-23.)
§ 37.30 EMERGENCY MEASURES - COSTS OF EMERGENCY REPAIRS (§ 158.09 (E))
   Costs incurred in the performance of emergency work shall be paid by the
jurisdiction. The legal counsel of the jurisdiction shall institute appropriate
action against the owner of the premises where the unsafe structure is or was
located for the recovery of such costs, including an administrative fee of
($193).
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20; Ord. 3720. Passed 3-1-22; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-28-23.)
§ 37.31 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE RE-INSPECTION FEE (§ 158.13).
   A fee of ($96) per hour or any portion thereof for each re-inspection
subsequent to the first inspection shall be paid by the owner, tenant or person
responsible for correction of violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20; Ord. 3720. Passed 3-1-22; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-28-23.)
§ 37.32 TREES, WEEDS, AND GRASSES - ASSESSMENT OF COSTS BY CITY (§ 158.16(D)
(5)).
   Fee for trimming or removing any tree, plant, or shrubbery, or part thereof,
or weeds and grass are growing in any street, public place, or upon private
property contiguous to a street or sidewalk or public place, shall be the
actual cost incurred, plus a ($193) Administrative Fee.
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20; Ord. 3720. Passed 3-1-22; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-28-23.)
§ 37.33 RUBBISH AND GARBAGE (§ 158.21(D)).
   Fee for rubbish or garbage removal is the cost incurred by the City in
having such rubbish or garbage removed plus a ($193) Administrative Fee.
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20; Ord. 3720. Passed 3-1-22; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-28-23.)
§ 37.34 VACATION OF STREETS, ALLEYS, AND UTILITY EASEMENTS (RESOLUTION NO. 9-
91).
   The fee for vacation of streets, alleys, and utility easements shall be:
   (A)   ($39) when the petition has been signed by all adjacent property
owners.
   (B)   ($160) when the petition has not been signed by all the adjacent
property owners.
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20; Ord. 3720. Passed 3-1-22; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-28-23.)
§ 37.35 MOBILE FOOD VENDOR FEES (§ 154.16.11).
   License Fee. Upon issuance of the Mobile Food Vendor License and as may be
renewed thereafter, a non-refundable Mobile Food Vendor License fee of $52
shall be due and payable. This fee is in addition to fees as may be required by
other governing jurisdictions.
(Ord. 3679. Passed 8-25-20; Ord. 3718. Passed 1-11-22; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-28-
23.)
§ 37.36 LATE FEE - RESIDENTIAL RENTAL REGISTRATION AND EDUCATION PROGRAM FEES
(§ 158.50(A))
   A late fee of ($155) for the first year, $361 for the second year, and $515
for the third and subsequent years thereafter shall be instituted for failure
to comply with the registration requirements of Section
158.48 of the Property Maintenance Code, and shall be paid by the Owner or
Responsible Agent who is responsible for correcting the violations. Notice
shall be accompanied by a statement of the amount of cost incurred, and in the
event the same is not paid within thirty (30) days after the mailing of the
notice, then such amount shall be certified to the County Auditor for
collection the same as other taxes and assessments are collected.
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20; Ord. 3673. Passed 8-11-20; Ord. 3720. Passed 3-1-22; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-
28-23.)
§ 37.37 HOOKAH BAR LICENSE FEE (§ 154.16.12).
   All Hookah Bars required to be licensed under Section
154.16.12 of the Zoning Code shall pay a non-refundable annual license fee of
($137) upon approval of the license or license renewal by the Chief of Police.
This license fee
shall be in addition to other fees which may be required in order to operate
the Hookah Bar.
 
3% State Fee Applied for All Commercial Use Groups
1% State Fee Applied for All Residential Use Groups
Double Fee   When work is started before obtaining the required permit
 
(Ord. 3628. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20; Ord. 3720. Passed 3-1-22; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-28-23.)
§ 37.38 MASSAGE SERVICES ESTABLISHMENT PERMIT FEES.
   The initial application for a Massage Services Establishment permit shall be
accompanied by the payment of a ($55) fee. A separate permit application fee is
not required for each individual who performs massage services at a Massage
Services Establishment which possesses a valid permit. Each subsequent annual
renewal of a Massage Services Establishment permit shall be accompanied by the
payment of a ($28) fee.
   A permit to operate a Massage Services Establishment may be transferred by
submitting a request in writing to the City of West Carrollton and payment of a
($28) transfer fee. Police Department License Fee, Initial Non-refundable
($110). Police Department Non-refundable Renewal Fee ($55).
(Ord. 3631. Passed 4-10-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20; Ord. 3720. Passed 3-1-22; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-28-23.)
§ 37.39 SMALL CELL FACILITY AND WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE FEES. (§ 99.09).
   The fee for processing an application for consent for each small cell
facility and wireless support structure requested shall be a one-time fee of
($275). The fee for reimbursement for an operator's attachment of small cell
facilities to wireless support structures owned or operated by the City and
located in the right-of-way shall be ($219) annually.
(Ord. 3636. Passed 7-10-18; Ord. 3642. Passed 2-26-19; Ord. 3667. Passed 2-25-
20; Ord. 3720. Passed 3-1-22; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-28-23.)
§ 37.40 PUBLIC NUISANCE-ASSESSMENT OF COSTS BY THE CITY (§ 160.18).
   The city shall recover the cost of abating or lessening the severity of such
public nuisance, or other action taken by the city pursuant to Section 160.21
plus an administrative fee of $193.
(Ord. 3674. Passed 8-11-20; Ord. 3748. Passed 2-28-23.)
CHAPTER 38: GENERAL FEE SCHEDULE
   (EDITOR'S NOTE: Former Chapter 38 was repealed by Ordinance 3434, passed
December 22, 2009. See
Chapter 37 for relevant legislation.)
CHAPTER 39: IDENTITY THEFT POLICY
39.01   Background.
39.02   Purpose.
39.03   Scope.
39.04   Policy.
39.05   Additional Identity Theft Prevention Program.
39.06   Responding to red flags.
39.07   Periodic updates to plan.
39.08   Program administration.
§ 39.01 BACKGROUND.
   The risk to the Municipality, its employees and customers from data loss and
identity theft is of significant concern to the Municipality and can be reduced
only through the combined efforts of every employee and contractor.
(Res. 8-2009. Passed 4-28-09.)
§ 39.02 PURPOSE.
   The Municipality adopts this sensitive information policy to help protect
employees, customers, contractors and the Municipality from damages related to
the loss or misuse of sensitive information.
   This policy will:
      (1)   Define sensitive information;
      (2)   Describe the physical security of data when it is printed on paper;
      (3)   Describe the electronic security of data when stored and
distributed; and
      (4)   Place the Municipality in compliance with state and federal law
regarding identity theft protection.
   (B)   This policy enables the Municipality to protect existing customers,
reducing risk from identity fraud, and minimize potential damage to the
Municipality from fraudulent new accounts. The program will help the
Municipality:
      (1)   Identify risks that signify potentially fraudulent activity within
new or existing covered accounts;
      (2)   Detect risks when they occur in covered accounts;
      (3)   Respond to risks to determine if fraudulent activity has occurred
and act if fraud has been attempted or committed; and
      (4)   Update the program periodically, including reviewing the accounts
that are covered and the identified risks that are part of the program. (Res.
8-2009. Passed 4-28-09.)
§ 39.03 SCOPE.
   This policy and protection program applies to employees, contractors,
consultants, temporary workers, and other workers at the municipality,
including all personnel affiliated with third parties.
(Res. 8-2009. Passed 4-28-09.)
§ 39.04 POLICY.
   (A)   Sensitive Information Policy.
      (1)   Definition of Sensitive Information. Sensitive information includes
the following items whether stored in electronic or printed format:
         a.   Credit card information, including any of the following:
            1. Credit card number (in part or whole)
            2. Credit card expiration date.
            3. Cardholder name.
            4. Cardholder address.
         b.   Tax identification numbers, including:
            1. Social Security Number
            2. Business identification number
            3. Employer identification numbers
         c.   Payroll information, including, among other information:
            1.   Paychecks
            2.   Pay stubs
         d.   Cafeteria plan check requests and associated paperwork.
         e.   Medical information for any employee or customer, including but
not limited to:
            1.   Doctor names and claims
            2.   Insurance claims
            3.   Prescriptions
            4.   Any related personal medical information.
         f.   Other personal information belonging to any customer, employee or
contractor, examples of which include:
            1.   Date of birth
            2.   Address
            3.   Phone numbers
            4.   Maiden name
            5.   Names
            6.   Customer number.
         g.   Municipal personnel are encouraged to use common sense judgment
in securing confidential information to the proper extent. Furthermore, this
section should be read in conjunction with the Ohio Public Records Act and the
Municipality's open records policy. If an employee is uncertain of the
sensitivity of a particular piece of information, he/she should contact their
supervisor. In the event that the Municipality cannot resolve a conflict
between this policy and the Ohio Public Records Act, the municipality will
consult legal counsel.
   (B)   Hard Copy Distribution. Each employee and contractor performing work
for the municipality will comply with the following policies:
      (1)   File cabinets, desk drawers, overhead cabinets, and any other
storage space containing documents with sensitive information will be locked
when not in use.
      (2)   Storage rooms containing documents with sensitive information and
record retention areas will be locked at the end of each workday or when
unsupervised.
      (3)   Desks, workstations, work areas, printers and fax machines, and
common shared work areas will be cleared of all documents containing sensitive
information when not in use.
      (4)   Whiteboards, dry-erase boards, writing tablets, etc. in common
shared work areas will be erased, removed, or shredded when not in use.
      (5)   When documents containing sensitive information are discarded they
will be placed inside a locked shred bin or immediately shredded using a
mechanical cross cut or Department of Defense (DOD)-approved shredding device.
Locked shred bins are labeled "Confidential paper shredding and recycling."
Municipal records, however, may only be destroyed in accordance with the City's
records retention policy.
   (C)   Electronic Distribution. Each employee and contractor performing work
for the municipality will comply with the following policies:
      (1)   Internally, sensitive information may be transmitted using approved
municipal e-mail. All sensitive information must be encrypted when stored in an
electronic format.
      (2)   Any sensitive information sent externally must be encrypted and
password protected and only to approved recipients. Additionally, a statement
such as this should be included in the e-mail:
   "This message may contain confidential and/or proprietary information and is
intended for the person/entity to whom it was originally addressed. Any use by
others is strictly prohibited. "
(Res. 8-2009. Passed 4-28-09.)
§ 39.05 ADDITIONAL IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM.
   If the Municipality maintains certain covered accounts pursuant to federal
legislation, the Municipality may include the additional program details.
   (A)   Covered Accounts. A covered account includes any account that involves
or is designed to permit multiple payments or transactions. Every new and
existing' customer account that meets the following criteria is covered by this
program:
      (1)   Business, personal and household accounts for which there is a
reasonably foreseeable risk of identity theft; or
      (2)   Business, personal and household accounts for which there is a
reasonably foreseeable risk to the safety or soundness of the municipality from
identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance, reputation, or
litigation risks.
   (B)   Red Flags.
      (1)   The following red flags are potential indicators of fraud. Any time
a red flag, or a situation closely resembling a red flag, is apparent, it
should be investigated for verification.
         a.   Alerts, notifications or warnings from a consumer reporting
agency;
         b.   A fraud or active duty alert included with a consumer report;
         c.   A notice of credit freeze from a consumer reporting agency in
response to a request for a consumer report; or
         d.   A notice of address discrepancy from a consumer reporting agency
as defined in 334.82(b) of the Fairness and Accuracy in Credit Transactions
Act.
      (2)   Red flags also include consumer reports that indicate a pattern of
activity inconsistent with the history and usual pattern of activity of an
applicant or customer, such as:
         •   A recent and significant increase in the volume of inquiries;
         •   An unusual number of recently established credit relationships;
         •   A material change in the use of credit, especially with respect to
recently established credit relationships; or
         •   An account that was closed for cause or identified for abuse of
account privileges by a financial institution or creditor.
   (C)   Suspicious Documents.
      (1)   Documents provided for identification that appear to have been
altered or forged.
      (2)   The photograph or physical description on the identification is not
consistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer presenting the
identification.
      (3)   Other information on the identification is not consistent with
information provided by the person opening a new covered account or customer
presenting the identification.
      (4)   Other information on the identification is not consistent with
readily accessible information that is on file with the municipality, such as a
signature card or a recent check.
      (5)   An application appears to have been altered or forged, or gives the
appearance of having been destroyed and reassembled.
   (D)   Suspicious Personal Identifying Information.
      (1)   Personal identifying information provided is inconsistent when
compared against external information sources used by the Municipality. For
example:
         •   The address does not match any address in the consumer report;
         •   The Social Security number (SSN) has not been issued or is listed
on the Social Security Administration's Death Master File; or
         •   Personal identifying information provided by the customer is not
consistent with other personal identifying information provided by the
customer. For example, there is a lack of correlation between the SSN range and
date of birth.
      (2)   Personal identifying information provided is associated with known
fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third-party sources used by the
Municipality. For example, the address on an application is the same as the
address provided on a fraudulent application.
      (3)   Personal identifying information provided is of a type commonly
associated with fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third-party
sources used by the Municipality. For example:
         •   The address on an application is fictitious, a mail drop, or a
prison; or
         •   The phone number is invalid or is associated with a pager or
answering service.
      (4)   The SSN provided is the same as that submitted by other persons
opening an account or other customers.
      (5)   The address or telephone number provided is the same as or similar
to the address or telephone number submitted by an unusually large number of
other customers or other persons opening accounts.
      (6)   The customer or the person opening the covered account fails to
provide all required personal identifying information on an application or in
response to notification that the application is incomplete.
   (E)   Unusual Use of, or Suspicious Activity Related to, the Covered
Account.
      (1)   Shortly following the notice of a change of address for a covered
account, the Municipality receives a request for new, additional or replacement
goods or services, or for the addition of authorized users on the account.
      (2)   A new revolving credit account is used in a manner commonly
associated with known patterns of fraud patterns. For example, the customer
fails to make the first payment or makes an initial payment but no subsequent
payments.
      (3)   A covered account is used in a manner that is not consistent with
established patterns of activity on the account. There is, for example:
         •   Nonpayment when there is no history of late or missed payments;
         •   A material change in purchasing or usage patterns.
      (4)   A covered account that has been inactive for a reasonably lengthy
period of time is used (taking into consideration the type of account, the
expected pattern of usage and other relevant factors).
      (5)   Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as undeliverable
although transactions continue to be conducted in connection with the
customer's covered account.
      (6)   The Municipality is notified that the customer is not receiving
paper account statements.
      (7)   The Municipality is notified of unauthorized charges or
transactions in connection with a customer's covered account.
      (8)   The Municipality receives notice from customers, victims of
identity theft, law enforcement authorities, or other persons regarding
possible identity theft in connection with covered accounts held by the
Municipality.
      (9)   The Municipality is notified by a customer, a victim of identity
theft, a law enforcement authority, or any other person that it has opened a
fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity theft. (Res. 8-2009. Passed
4-28-09.)
§ 39.06 RESPONDING TO RED FLAGS.
   (A)   Once potentially fraudulent activity is detected, an employee must act
quickly as a rapid appropriate response can protect customers and the
Municipality from damages and loss.
      (1)   Once potentially fraudulent activity is detected, gather all
related documentation and write a description of the situation. Present this
information to the designated authority for determination.
      (2)   The designated authority will complete additional authentication to
determine whether the attempted transaction was fraudulent or authentic.
   (B)   If a transaction is determined to be fraudulent, appropriate actions
must be taken immediately. Actions may include:
      (1)   Canceling the transaction;
      (2)   Notifying and cooperating with appropriate law enforcement;
      (3)   Determining the extent of liability of the Municipality; and
      (4)   Notifying the actual customer that fraud has been attempted.
(Res. 8-2009. Passed 4-28-09.)
§ 39.07 PERIODIC UPDATES TO PLAN.
   (A)   At periodic intervals established in the program, or as required, the
program will be re-evaluated to determine whether all aspects of the program
are up to date and applicable in the current business environment.
   (B)   Periodic reviews will include an assessment of which accounts are
covered by the program.
   (C)   As part of the review, red flags may be revised, replaced or
eliminated. Defining new red flags may also be appropriate.
   (D)   Actions to take in the event that fraudulent activity is discovered
may also require revision to reduce damage to the Municipality and its
customers. (Res. 8-2009. Passed 4-28-09.)
§ 39.08 PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Involvement of Management.
      (1)   The Identity Theft Prevention Program shall not be operated as an
extension to existing fraud prevention programs, and its importance warrants
the highest level of attention.
      (2)   The Identity Theft Prevention Program is the responsibility of the
governing body. Approval of the initial plan must be appropriately documented
and maintained.
      (3)   Operational responsibility of the program is delegated to the
Finance Director or his/her designee.
   (B)   Staff Training.
      (1)   Staff training shall be conducted for all employees, officials and
contractors for whom it is reasonably foreseeable that they may come into
contact with accounts or personally identifiable information that may
constitute a risk to the Municipality or its customers.
      (2)   The Finance Director or his/her designee is responsible for
ensuring identity theft training for all requisite employees and contractors.
      (3)   Employees must receive annual training in all elements of this
policy.
      (4)   To ensure maximum effectiveness, employees may continue to receive
additional training as changes to the program are made.
   (C)   Oversight of Service Provider Arrangements.
      (1)   It is the responsibility of the Municipality to ensure that the
activities of all service providers are conducted in accordance with reasonable
policies and procedures designed to detect, prevent and mitigate the risk of
identity theft.
      (2)   A service provider that maintains its own identity theft prevention
program, consistent with the guidance of the red flag rules and validated by
appropriate due diligence, may be considered to be meeting these requirements.
      (3)   Any specific requirements should be specifically addressed in the
appropriate contract arrangements. (Res. 8-2009. Passed 4-28-09.)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
   
50.   WATER AND SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
   
51.   WATER AND SEWER TAP FEES; REGULATIONS
   
52.   WATER AND SEWER SERVICE LINES
   
53.   GARBAGE AND TRASH REMOVAL
   
54.   PREVAILING WAGE LAW
   
55.   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
   
56.   WASTEWATER PRETREATMENT
      APPENDIX A:   TOXIC PRIORITY POLLUTANTS
      APPENDIX B:   CONVENTIONAL POLLUTANTS
      APPENDIX C:   INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGES SUBJECT TO CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT
STANDARDS
      APPENDIX D:   LOCAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS
   
58.   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
CHAPTER 50: WATER AND SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
Section
50.01   Use of city water and sewer services
50.02   Water rates within the city
50.03   Sewer rates within the city
50.04   Service charges outside the city
50.05   Measurement of water and sewer usage
50.06   Determination of billing periods
50.07   Additional fees included in water or sewer bills
50.08   Payment of water and sewer bills; shut-off order
50.09   Shut-off order; no liability
50.10   Responsibility for payment of water and sewer charges; regulations for
collection of delinquent accounts
50.11   Shut-off requested; authority
50.12   Unmetered fire line services and hydrants; charges
50.13   Estimated bills; corrections
50.14   Sale of residences or buildings; report by seller
50.15   Responsibility for meters
50.16   Leaks; no rebate
50.17   False information
50.18   Authorized use of services
50.19   Unauthorized use of water; special charge
50.20   Authorization of employees to enter premises
50.21   Meter installation; nonresponsibility for deteriorated or inferior
plumbing
50.22   Right of city to discontinue service for repairs, maintenance or
construction
50.23   Right of city to limit use of water
50.24   Water services not to be resold
50.25   Accessibility of hydrants, meters and stop boxes
50.26   Failure to repair leaks, etc.; shut-off
50.27   Installation and maintenance of customer owned water meters
50.28   Purchase and installation of water meters from city
50.29   Residential septage disposal service at wastewater treatment plant
50.30   Board of Water and Sewer Charge Adjustment
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 USE OF CITY WATER AND SEWER SERVICES.
   City water and sewer services shall be furnished to the inhabitants of the
city in a manner determined by the ordinances of the city, and by written
regulations established by the service director and approved by the city
manager. All persons using city water or sewer or permitting city water or
sewer to be used on premises owned by them shall thereby evidence their
acceptance of an agreement to be bound by the rules, conditions and charges
established within such ordinances and regulations. (Ord. 1803, passed 9-28-73;
amend. Ord. 1809,
passed 10-9-73)
§ 50.02 WATER RATES WITHIN THE CITY.
   (A)   Effective at the beginning of the first quarter water billing period
of 2007, this section shall read as follows:
      (1)   The quarterly rates for metered water furnished and supplied by the
City within its corporate limits shall be as set forth in Section
37.03 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton.
      (2)   Water services furnished to premises not under individual water
meters shall be charged as set forth in Section
37.03 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton.
(Ord. 3300. Passed 6-14-05; Ord. 3436. Passed 12-22- 09.)
§ 50.03 SEWER RATES WITHIN THE CITY.
   (A)   Effective at the beginning of the third quarter sewer billing period
of 2008, the quarterly rates for sewer provided by the City within its
corporate limits shall be as set forth in Section
37.04 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton.
      (1)   Water usage not tributary to the sanitary sewer may be separately
metered at owner's expense to avoid billing for sewer.
      (2)   Commercial or industrial sewer users not under the City or
Montgomery County meter control shall have sanitary sewage flow estimated at
the ratio of 35 gallons per day per employee. The number of employees shall be
updated periodically by the City. Nothing herein stated shall constitute
approval to discharge industrial or commercial wastes into the municipal sewer
system.
      (3)   Multi-family, commercial and industrial units not under City meter
control may have sanitary sewage flow estimated which will be based on similar
multi-family, commercial or industrial units under City meter control whenever
the City determines it would be impossible or impracticable to actually read
such meter. (Ord. 3382. Passed 4-8-08; amend. Ord. 3436. Passed 12-22-09.)
§ 50.04 SERVICE CHARGES OUTSIDE THE CITY.
   Charges for water and sewer services rendered outside the city corporate
limits shall be 20% over and above the standard charge for similar service
within the city, except that where different charges are authorized by City
Council and agreed upon by the consumer, the charges set forth in the agreement
shall apply.
(Ord. 1803, passed 8-28-73; amend. Ord. 1809, passed 10-9-73)
§ 50.05 MEASUREMENT OF WATER AND SEWER USAGE.
   On or about the fifteenth of December, March, June, and September, but prior
to the end of these months, the city shall read all meters and compute the
usage of each service customer for the calendar quarters ending with those
months. This measurement of usage shall constitute the basis for computation of
quarterly billings based on graduated
rates. (Ord. 1986, passed 10-26-76)
§ 50.06 DETERMINATION OF BILLING PERIODS.
   Customers shall be billed for water and sewer charges at regular quarterly
intervals. However, extended or shortened billing periods may be adopted by the
Service Director on a temporary basis with the approval of the City Manager
when necessitated by a shortage of labor, breakdown of machinery or temporary
other circumstances under which quarterly billing would be impractical. When
modified billing periods are necessary, minimum charges, where applicable,
shall be determined on a pro rata basis. However, no billing period shall be
for less than 30 days. If, for purposes of efficiency, regular quarterly
billing on other than a calendar quarter basis is determined to be desirable, a
revised quarterly meter reading and billing schedule may be established by the
City Manager. (Ord. 1803, passed 8-28-73; amend. Ord. 1809, passed 10-9-73)
§ 50.07 ADDITIONAL FEES INCLUDED IN WATER OR SEWER BILLS.
   The following special services shall be charged to a customer's water or
sewer bill with the fees indicated:
   (A)   Posting Fee. In all cases in which the account is posted on the shut-
off list for any violation of these regulations or failure to pay charges, the
owner or occupant of such premises shall pay a fee as set forth in Section
37.05 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton.
   (B)   Fee for Testing Meter Accuracy. The Water Division will test any of
its meters and will guarantee their accuracy against overcharge within 2%.
Proper refund shall be made for any overcharges resulting from an inaccurate
meter. In order to protect the Water Division from unreasonable demands for
this service, a charge as set forth in Section 5 of Chapter 37, General Fee
Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the City of West Carrollton, shall be
made if the test shows the meter to be registering properly within 2%, plus or
minus.
   (C)   Emergency Water Shut Off Fee. Emergency water shut off fee requested
after hours by the customer, or plumber, which results in overtime payments to
water department employees shall be billed per occurrence at the rate set forth
in Section
37.05 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton.
(Ord. 3353. Passed 8-14-07; amend. Ord. 3436. Passed 12-22-09.)
§ 50.08 PAYMENT OF WATER AND SEWER BILLS; SHUT-OFF ORDER.
   On a regular quarterly basis as provided for herein, a statement of the
amount due for water consumed, sewer usage and all fees, charges and/or
penalties shall be sent to the owner or to the address where water or sewer
services are delivered. If the bill is not paid on or before the fifteenth day
after mailing of such notice, a 10% penalty shall be posted to the account. If
the account is not paid within 28 days after mailing such notice, a 48 hour
notice of water shut-off shall be mailed to the affected address and to the
owner if that address is not his place of residence. If more than one user is
to be affected by such shut-off, notices shall be mailed to all of the persons.
If the bill is not paid upon the expiration of the 48 hour period, the account
number will be posted on a shut-off list and a special shut-off fee will be
assessed to the account at that time, in accordance with §
50.07 of this chapter. The water shall be shut off as soon as practical after
the 48 hour period and shall not be turned on again until all water and sewer
bills, penalties and charges are paid. (Ord. 1803, passed 8-28-73; amend. Ord.
1809, passed 10-9-73) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.09 SHUT-OFF ORDER; NO LIABILITY.
   When one or more parties are supplied with water or sewer from the same
service pipe and one or more of the parties so supplied fails to pay the bills
due or fails to comply with the rules of the water and sewer departments, or a
defect develops in any one of the systems connected, the water shall be shut
off from the service pipes without liability in damage to any of the parties
served. (Ord. 1803, passed 8-28-73; amend. Ord. 1809, passed 10-9-73)
§ 50.10 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT OF WATER AND SEWER CHARGES; REGULATIONS FOR
COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The payment of all water and sewer charges, penalties and fees, shall
be the responsibility of the property owner. Delinquent water and sewer bills
shall be collected according to the rules and regulations adopted by the
Finance Director and approved by City Council and set forth in division (B)
below.
   (B)   The following rules and regulations are hereby adopted and shall be
used for the collection of all delinquent water and sewer bills owing to the
city.
      (1)   Delinquency owing at change of ownership of property. Where an
outstanding amount appears on an account that either has had, or will have
water services shut off, and where the city is aware of the delinquency at the
time the services are transferred to the new owner, the water clerk shall:
         (a)   Inform the new property owner of the amount due on the account.
         (b)   Maintain a service shut-off on the property until the
outstanding amount is paid in full.
      (2)   Delinquency owing on final bill; nonrental property.
         (a)   Where an outstanding amount appears on an account as a result of
a user's failure to remit payment on their final reading, and where this
delinquency is apparent after ownership of the property has been transferred,
the water clerk shall:
            1.   Send a balance due notice to the previous owner stating that
payment is due within 15 days.
            2.   Send a second notice to the previous owner stating that if the
amount due is not paid in full, the amount will be forwarded to the city's
legal counsel for collection through the courts, or the amount will be turned
over to a credit bureau for collection.
            3.   Depending on the amount involved, file for judgment in the
small claims court, or place amount for collection with the credit bureau.
            4.   Write-off amounts not collectible after all collection avenues
have been exhausted.
         (b)   Where a property owner sells a property, leaving a final bill
due, and moves to another location within the city, the water clerk shall:
            1.   Send a shut-off notice to the new location stating that if the
amount due is not paid within ten days, service to their current residence will
be shut off.
            2.   Shut off service until amount due is paid.
      (3)   Delinquency owing on final bill; rental property. The property
owner of rental property shall be ultimately responsible for the payment of all
water and sewer charges for such property and such delinquencies shall be
collected as follows:
         (a)   Where an outstanding amount appears on an account as a result of
a tenant moving out of a property and leaving a final bill unpaid, the water
clerk shall:
            1.   Send a shut-off notice to the property owner stating that if
the bill is not paid within ten days, service to the property will be shut off.
            2.   Shut off service until amount due is paid.
         (b)   Where an outstanding amount appears on rental property that does
not use the city's water system or where the owner of the property is not
known, collection efforts shall follow the procedures set forth in division (B)
(2)(a) of this section.
(Ord. 1803, passed 8-28-73; amend. Ord. 1809, passed 10-9-73; amend. Ord. 2675,
passed 10-11-88)
§ 50.11 SHUT-OFF REQUESTED; AUTHORITY.
   Either a property owner or tenant may request a termination of water
service. In the event of conflicting requests from property owner and tenant
regarding termination, the decision of the property owner shall prevail. The
property owner shall hold the city harmless from damages resulting from any
order to the water department regarding either termination or reinstatement of
water services.
(Ord. 1803, passed 8-28-73; amend. Ord. 1809, passed 10-9-73)
§ 50.12 UNMETERED FIRE LINE SERVICES AND HYDRANTS; CHARGES.
   (A)   Unmetered fire line services installed on private property shall be
subject to the charges set forth in Section
37.06 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton.
   (B)   These services must be protected by backflow devices approved by the
service director and by the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency. These
services are for fire protection only and the use of water from them for other
purposes is prohibited. Flow detectors approved by the service department must
be installed in these lines.
   (C)   A charge, as set forth in Section
37.06 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the City of West Carrollton,
shall be applied to each unmetered fire hydrant located on private property
which is connected to the city water supply.
(Ord. 3350. Passed 8-14-07; amend. Ord. 3436. Passed 12-22-09.)
§ 50.13 ESTIMATED BILLS; CORRECTIONS.
   If a meter has failed to register the amount of water consumed or if the
meter has not been read, the bill shall be estimated. Estimated bills will be
corrected if the owner or consumer makes a request for correction within 10
days after issuance of the bill and presents evidence satisfactory to the water
department that the correction is justified.
(Ord. 1803, passed 8-28-73; amend. Ord. 1809, passed 10-9-73)
§ 50.14 SALE OF RESIDENCES OR BUILDINGS; REPORT BY SELLER.
   Any person, firm or corporation selling any residence or other building
within the city shall, immediately upon the sale, notify the water department
clerk, in writing, of the facts and shall furnish the name and address of the
purchaser and the address of the property. (Ord. 1803, passed 8-28-73; amend.
Ord. 1809, passed 10-9-73) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.15 RESPONSIBILITY FOR METERS.
   The property owner shall be responsible for protecting water meters from
physical abuse, freezing, vibration, or other adverse conditions, and shall
assume the cost of repair of meters damaged under such conditions. (Ord. 1803,
passed 8-28-73; amend. Ord. 1809, passed 10-9-73) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.16 LEAKS; NO REBATE.
   No reduction in charges for water or sewer will be made due to leaks in
customer water lines, tanks, pipes, or other fixtures or appurtenances, unless
so ordered by the Board of Water and Sewer Charge Adjustment. (Ord. 1803,
passed 8-28-73; amend. Ord. 1809, passed 10-9-73; Am. Ord. 2354, passed 12-14-
82)
§ 50.17 FALSE INFORMATION.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall furnish any false information
concerning the use of water or sewer services or regarding the occupancy or
ownership of premises in making application for the services, or in responding
to inquires by the water or sewer department regarding the current status of
the premises. (Ord. 1803, passed 8-28-73; amend. Ord. 1809, passed 10-9-73)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.18 AUTHORIZED USE OF SERVICES.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall connect to, or otherwise use the water
or sewer services of the city without first obtaining permission therefor from
the service director or his authorized agent.
(Ord. 1803, passed 8-28-73; amend. Ord. 1809, passed 10-9-73)
§ 50.19 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF WATER; SPECIAL CHARGE.
   In addition to the criminal penalties provided herein, a special charge
shall be made for water taken illegally. The charge shall be determined by
obtaining 3 quotations from private water haulers of the cost of delivery of
the amount of water illegally taken and the city's charge shall be the average
of the 3 quotations. (Ord. 1803, passed 8-28-73; amend. Ord. 1809, passed 10-9-
73) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.20 AUTHORIZATION OF EMPLOYEES TO ENTER PREMISES.
   All employees of the city, designated for the purpose, are authorized to
enter, at reasonable hours and with the knowledge of the owner or occupant,
into any house, building or plant supplied with city water or sewer for the
purpose of inspection or repair, or for any other reasonable purpose necessary
to the operation of the city water or sewer systems. (Ord. 1803, passed 8-28-
73; amend. Ord. 1809, passed 10-9-73) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.21 METER INSTALLATION OR REPAIR; NONRESPONSIBILITY FOR DETERIORATED OR
INFERIOR PLUMBING.
   The city shall have the right to repair or replace meters, if necessary, and
shall not be responsible for damage to deteriorated or inferior plumbing in
making the repairs or replacement. (Ord. 1803, passed 8-28-73; amend. Ord.
1809, passed 10-9-73)
§ 50.22 RIGHT OF CITY TO DISCONTINUE SERVICE FOR REPAIRS, MAINTENANCE OR
CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall have the right to shut off water service temporarily when
necessitated by repairs, maintenance or construction, and shall not be
responsible for accidents or damage which may result from such discontinuances.
Persons owning or operating equipment or businesses dependent on the city water
supply should make adequate provision for storage of water to be used in case
of a temporary discontinuance of city water service. (Ord. 1803, passed 8-28-
73; amend. Ord. 1809, passed 10-9-73)
§ 50.23 RIGHT OF CITY TO LIMIT USE OF WATER.
   In case of a serious fire or water shortage, or when for any reason it is
necessary, in the judgment of the city manager, to conserve the water supply by
limiting the use thereof, the limitations shall be obeyed by all users of water
affected by the limitations and the city shall not be responsible for any
damages resulting from the limiting of use.
(Ord. 1803, passed 8-28-73; amend. Ord. 1809, passed 10-9-73) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.24 WATER SERVICES NOT TO BE RESOLD.
   Under no conditions shall water and water services as provided by the city
be resold by any consumer or furnished to any other living unit, business,
individual or property, except as herein provided. (Ord. 1803, passed 8-28-73;
amend. Ord. 1809, passed 10-9-73) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.25 ACCESSIBILITY OF HYDRANTS, METERS AND STOP BOXES.
   Hydrants, meters and stop boxes must be kept accessible and visible by the
owner and occupant. It shall be the duty of the property owner to assure that
no vegetation, structure, or other obstacle shall hinder the accessibility of
these fixtures. The property owner shall maintain all such fixtures in
accordance with regulations adopted by the city manager. (Ord. 1803, passed 8-
28-73; amend. Ord. 1809, passed 10-9-73) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.26 FAILURE TO REPAIR LEAKS, ETC.; SHUT-OFF.
   Failure to repair leaks, remove obstructions preventing access to meters or
curb box, or to make payment of charges for work performed by the city for
these purposes, when notified to do so, will be sufficient cause for
termination of water service until the problem has been corrected by the owner.
(Ord. 1803, passed 8-28-73; amend. Ord. 1809, passed 10-9-73) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.27 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF CUSTOMER OWNED WATER METERS.
   Only those water meters approved by the city service department may be used
and the city shall have the right to check the meters for accuracy at any time
and require that any necessary repairs to the meters be made at the property
owner's expense. The city shall also have the right to inspect connecting
plumbing to assure that the meter installation is consistent with all
applicable regulations. (Ord. 1803, passed 8-28-73; amend. Ord. 1809, passed
10-9-73)
§ 50.28 PURCHASE AND INSTALLATION OF WATER METERS FROM CITY.
   (A)   (1)   There is established fees for the purchase and installation of
water meters acquired from the City, such fees shall be as set forth in Section
 37.07 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton.
      (2)   These fees are for the meter and the remote read-out unit, plus
labor to install the water meter in an opening plumbed by the owner; also, the
remote read-out is to be connected to wires provided and installed by the
owner.
   (B)   The fees, as established, shall be paid by the applicant to the city
at the time application is made for the meter installation; such fee to be used
by the city to defray the costs of the materials and labor involved.
   (C)   The City Manager is authorized to increase the fees listed in division
(A) and set forth in Section
37.07 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton as he deems necessary from time to time to ensure that
the city receives appropriate fees for this meter installation service. (Ord.
2245, passed 3-10-81; amend. Ord. 3436, passed 12-22- 09)
§ 50.29 RESIDENTIAL SEPTAGE DISPOSAL SERVICE AT WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT.
   (A)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to implement a septage disposal
service for haulers of residential septage registered with the County Health
Department.
   (B)   The charge for this septage disposal service shall be $25 for each 500
gallon or part thereof of septage dumped.
   (C)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to establish the necessary
procedure for implementing this septage disposal service.
(Res. 23-89, passed 8-8-89)
§ 50.30 BOARD OF WATER AND SEWER CHARGE ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   A Board of Water and Sewer Charge Adjustment is hereby established,
consisting of the Service Director, a citizen appointed by Council and a
council member designated by majority vote of Council. The citizen appointed by
Council shall be appointed for a three-year term.
   (B)   The purpose of the Board of Water and Sewer Charge Adjustment shall be
to hear requests for adjustments in amounts of water and sewer charges billed,
when it is felt that the application of this chapter results in an inequitable
situation.
   (C)   An applicant may petition the Board and the Board may grant an
adjustment if the applicant proves to the Board's satisfaction that the
adjustment is justified.
   (D)   The members of the Board of Water and Sewer Charge Adjustment may,
from time to time, adopt and amend rules of procedure, to assist in effecting
the purpose of this section. A copy of any such rules or amendments shall be
filed with the Clerk of Council prior to becoming effective.
   (E)   Minutes of the hearings by the Board of Water and Sewer Charge
Adjustment will be kept and will also be filed with the Clerk of Council.
(Ord. 2354, passed 12-14-82)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined as set forth
in Section
37.08 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton.
(Ord. 1803, passed 10-9-73; amend. Ord. 1809, passed 10-9-73; amend. Ord. 3436,
passed 12-22-09.)
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWER TAP FEES; REGULATIONS
Section
51.01   Water and sewer connection permits required
51.02   Water tap fees
51.03   Sewer tap fees
51.04   Permit required; prior to construction
51.05   Deferment of tap payment
51.06   Service installation standards
51.07   Inspection required prior to backfilling
51.08   Failure to obtain inspection; stopping work
51.09   Stop work order
51.10   Water and sewer service lines; responsibility for maintenance
51.11   Permit for construction water
51.12   Commercial and industrial sewer waste controls
51.13   Fire hydrant use
51.14   Sanitary sewer lines and septic tanks near water wells
51.15   Public/private water interconnections
51.16   Clean water prohibited from sanitary sewer
51.17   Supplementary tap fee for enlargement or charge of use
51.18   Supplementary tap fee for connection to certain water mains or sewer
mains
51.19   Backflow prevention device
51.20   Private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply
51.21   Surveys and investigations of properties served by the public water
supply
51.22   Inspection of piping system
51.23   Discontinuance of water service
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 WATER AND SEWER CONNECTION PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No person shall connect with the city water system or sanitary sewer system
without a permit therefor. (Ord. 1805, passed 9-25-73)
§ 51.02 WATER TAP FEES.
   (A)   The fee for a water tap into the city water system shall be as set
forth in Section
37.09 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton.
   (B)   Anything not covered by the provisions in Section
37.09 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton shall be subject to the control and fee fixed by the
legislative body.
   (C)   The fees to be paid prior to extension of service line beyond curb
valve.
   (D)   The Water Department will make the tap into the main for the services
from 3/4 inch to and including 2 inches.
   (E)   The city will install meter in opening provided by owner or
contractor. Cost of meter, remote and installation charges will be paid by the
owner.
   (F)   Existing taps that are reused shall be charged an inspection fee as
set forth in Section
37.09 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton.
(Ord. 3354. Passed 8-14-07; amend. Ord. 3436. Passed 12-22-09.)
§ 51.03 SEWER TAP FEES.
   (A)   The fee for a sewer tap into the city sewer system shall be based on
meter size and such fee shall be as set forth in Section
 37.10 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton.
   (B)   Anything not covered by the provisions in Section
 37.10 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton shall be subject to the control and fee fixed by
Council.
   (C)   Existing taps that are reused shall be charged an inspection fee as
set forth in Section
37.10 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton.
(Ord. 3355. Passed 8-14-07; amend. Ord. 3436. Passed 12-22-09.)
§ 51.04 PERMIT REQUIRED; PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   Prior to the commencement of construction of water or sewer service in any
premises, a tap permit must be obtained at the office of the Water Department.
(Ord. 1805, passed 9-25-73)
§ 51.05 DEFERMENT OF TAP PAYMENT.
   Normally, tap fees must be paid before the tap is made. However, in the case
of new plats under construction where streets or thoroughfares have not been
paved or completed, if in the opinion of the City Manager the completion of the
services to the property line is warranted, taps will be made, and service
extended by contractor to the property line. The tap fee will be paid prior to
the extension beyond the property line. (Ord. 1805, passed 9-25-73)
§ 51.06 SERVICE INSTALLATION STANDARDS.
   All service installations and extensions shall be made in accordance with
the rules and regulations of the department governing plumbers, and in
conformance with the uniform building code. Except in cases where written
permission by the Service Director is granted, each separate building will be
served through an individual meter installed in a manner acceptable to the
Service Director.
(Ord. 1805, passed 9-25-73) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 INSPECTION REQUIRED PRIOR TO BACKFILLING.
   Any person, firm or corporation installing any water line, sanitary sewer
line or laterals in any street, or making any improvements thereto is required
to notify the respective city inspector and secure an inspection thereof before
the improvement is backfilled or in any manner covered up by earth or other
material. (Ord. 1805, passed 9-25-73)
§ 51.08 FAILURE TO OBTAIN INSPECTION; STOPPING WORK.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall backfill or in any other way cover
any water or sewer main or service line without first having obtained an
inspection thereof, as herein provided, shall, at their own expense, re-
excavate or uncover such improvement or installation in order that the same may
be adequately inspected. Upon the refusal of any person, firm or corporation to
re-excavate or uncover, as required, no further work shall be done on the
improvement until the re-excavation or uncovering has been completed,
inspection made and approval granted. (Ord. 1805, passed 9-25-73) Penalty, see
§
51.99
§ 51.09 STOP WORK ORDER.
   City inspectors are hereby authorized to stop any work, construction or
installation of any water or sanitary sewer improvements in the event of
violation of or deviation from the specifications governing the work,
construction, installation or improvement.
(Ord. 1805, passed 9-25-73)
§ 51.10 WATER AND SEWER SERVICE LINES; RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Water and sewer service lines are installed by the property owner at
his expense. The property owner shall be responsible for any water leakage
which may occur between the curb valve and the point of consumption, and shall
be responsible for any blockage or leakage which may occur in the sanitary
sewer service lines.
   (B)   Repairs to service lines shall conform to all specifications,
procedures and inspections applicable to installation of new service lines.
However, if repair or reconstruction of a service line does not require a
relocated or enlarged tap, the tap fee shall not apply. (Ord. 1805, passed 9-
25-73) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.11 PERMIT FOR CONSTRUCTION WATER.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation constructing a building or buildings
for which a water tap into the municipal system is required shall secure from
the city a permit for construction water, the fee for which shall be based upon
the total estimated construction cost of the building or buildings according to
the schedule set forth in Section
37.11 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton.
   This permit shall be obtained and paid for at the time the building permit
is secured. This provision shall not apply to the construction of garages,
storage sheds, or additions to existing buildings, where water under meter
control is already being billed.
   (B)   The use of construction water includes the right to use water for
construction purposes, sanitation purposes, and for the testing of water and
sewer lines during the construction phase, but in no event shall the right to
use the water extend beyond the time of the final inspection, or the cessation
of normal building activities when the construction is complete or purposely
held incomplete, whichever is earliest. (Ord. 1805, passed 9-25-73; amend. Ord.
2209, passed 6-10-80; amend. Ord. 2349, passed 10-12-82) Penalty, see §
51.99
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation requesting temporary water usage for
an existing building construction or maintenance project shall submit a
refundable fire hydrant meter deposit as set forth in Section
37.11 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton. Water usage shall be the current minimum charge in
effect for a 5/8" - 3/4" meter, plus the current additional charge per 1,000
gallons used over the minimum 10,000 gallons.
(Ord. 3349. Passed 8-14-07; amend. Ord. 3436. Passed 12-22-09.)
§ 51.12 COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL SEWER WASTE CONTROLS.
   (A)   For businesses using oils, gasolines, greases, fats and other problem
substances, sumps which prevent entry of these products into sanitary sewer
shall be required, and such sumps must be regularly maintained to prevent
accumulation and overflow of sludge and other non-degradable products into the
sanitary sewer.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to monitor wastes and to refuse to accept
those wastes which cannot be fully digested in the normal operation of the
wastewater treatment plant, or which adversely affect the operation of the
sewer system. When approved by the city, industrial wastes must be pretreated,
then analyzed and charges assessed based on cost of additional treatment
provided by the city.
   (C)   Disposal of any toxic materials through the city sewer system is
expressly prohibited. (Ord. 1805, passed 9-25-73; amend. Ord. 2134, passed 6-
12-79) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.13 FIRE HYDRANT USE.
   No person shall open or use water from any fire hydrant without first
obtaining a permit therefor, and no person shall open or close a fire hydrant
except with a hydrant wrench provided by the city. (Ord. 1805, passed 9-25-73)
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.14 SANITARY SEWER LINES AND SEPTIC TANKS NEAR WATER WELLS.
   No person shall construct or maintain any sanitary sewer line within 500
feet of any well used in connection with or constituting a part of the water
works system of the city, unless the construction of such line is approved by
the city and the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in writing. Septic
tanks and/or leaching fields may not be constructed or maintained within 500
feet of any such well. (Ord. 1805, passed 9-25-73) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.15 PUBLIC PRIVATE WATER INTERCONNECTIONS.
   No consumer shall have a cross connection between his private water supply
and the city water system unless such cross connection has been approved by the
Ohio EPA and the Service Director. (Ord. 1805, passed 9-25-73) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.16 CLEAN WATER PROHIBITED FROM SANITARY SEWER.
   No person shall construct or maintain connections into the sanitary sewer
from roof drains, foundation drains or other sources of clean water which
should be carried away by storm sewers or drains. (Ord. 1805, passed 9-25-73)
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.17 SUPPLEMENTARY TAP FEE FOR ENLARGEMENT OR CHANGE OF USE.
   In the event that a structure is enlarged, or the use of a structure is
materially changed, the owner or occupant may be required to pay a
supplementary tap fee prior to the issuance of a building and/ or occupancy
permit. A supplementary tap fee shall be charged if the tap fee for the
original use or structure, computed according to the current schedule of tap
fees, is less than the tap fee for the newly established use or enlarged
structure, computed according to the current schedule of tap fees. The
supplementary tap fee to be charged shall be the difference between these 2
computations. (Ord. 1812, passed 11-13-73)
§ 51.18 SUPPLEMENTARY TAP FEE FOR CONNECTION TO CERTAIN WATER MAINS OR SEWER
MAINS.
   (A)   Should any sewer main or water main be installed by a private party
and run along a course which makes the water or sewer main available to lands
other than those of the installer of the water main or sewer main, the city
shall enter into an agreement with the installer whereby the city agrees to
prohibit any other properties from being connected thereto unless the owner
thereof has:
      (1)   Obtained a permit for such a connection from the Service Director
of the city.
      (2)   Paid to the city a supplementary tap fee (or “protection”) in
addition to the tap fees described in §§
51.02 and 51.03. The amount of protection established shall be based upon a
percentage of the front footage of the properties benefited by the water or
sewer main. The city shall reimburse the amount of this supplementary tap fee
to the owner of the property for which the water or sewer main was originally
installed.
   (B)   A preliminary request for protection shall be submitted by the
installer with the cost estimate for the proposed improvement prior to approval
by the Service Director.
   (C)   A property owner installing water or sewer mains and requesting
protection shall be required to extend the water or sewer improvements across
the entire front of his property in cases where there is additional property
beyond the owner's property which can be served by water or sewer service.
   (D)   A letter requesting protection shall be submitted to the Service
Director within 30 days after final city approval of the water or sewer main
improvement. The Service Director shall verify the cost of installation of the
water or sewer mains before approving the protection agreement.
   (E)   This protection agreement shall be in effect for 20 years after the
date of approval.
   (F)   The city accepts no liability for collection of protection monies due
to error or oversight by the city. (Ord. 2551, passed 5-27-86) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.19 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE.
   If, in the judgment of the Service Director, an approved backflow prevention
device is necessary for the safety of the public water system, the Director
will give notice to the water consumer to install such an approved device. The
water consumer, at his own expense, shall install such an approved device at a
location and in a manner approved by the Director and shall have inspections
and tests made of such approved devices as required by the Director.
(Ord. 2581, passed 3-10-87)
§ 51.20 PRIVATE, AUXILIARY, OR EMERGENCY WATER SUPPLY.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be established
or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a private,
auxiliary, or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply
of the city may enter the supply or distributing system of the city, unless
such private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply and the method of connection
and use of such supply shall have been approved by the Director and by the Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency.
(Ord. 2581, passed 3-10-87)
§ 51.21 SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS OF PROPERTIES SERVED BY THE PUBLIC WATER
SUPPLY.
   It shall be the duty of the Service Director to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply where actual or potential hazards to the public water
supply may exist. The surveys and investigations shall be repeated as often as
the Director shall deem necessary.
(Ord. 2581, passed 3-10-87)
§ 51.22 INSPECTION OF PIPING SYSTEM.
   The Service Director or his duly authorized representative shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the public water supply or distributing system of the city for the purpose of
inspecting the piping system or systems thereof. On the demand the owner,
lessees, or occupants of any property so serviced shall furnish to the Director
any information which he may request regarding the piping system or systems or
water use on such property. The refusal of such information, when demanded,
shall, within the discretion of the Director, be deemed evidence of the
presence of improper connections as provided in §§
51.19 through 51.23.
(Ord. 2581, passed 3-10-87)
§ 51.23 DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE.
   The Service Director is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue, after
reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service to any property
wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of §§
51.19 through 51.23 is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary
measures as he may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of
the public water supply distribution mains. Water service to the property shall
not be restored until the conditions shall have been eliminated or corrected in
compliance with the provisions of §§
51.19 through 51.23.
(Ord. 2581, passed 3-10-87)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not more than $1,000 or
imprisoned for not more than 6 months, or both. (Ord. 1805, passed 9-25-73;
amend. Ord. 2140, passed 6-26-79)
CHAPTER 52: WATER AND SEWER SERVICE LINES
Section
52.01   Stop work order
52.02   Inspection required prior to backfilling
52.03   Failure to obtain inspection; stopping work
52.04   Drains near water wells
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 STOP WORK ORDER.
   City inspectors are hereby authorized to stop any work, construction or
installation of any water, sanitary sewer and storm sewer lines and
improvements thereto in the event the same is found to be in violation of or in
deviation from the specifications governing the work, construction,
installation or improvement. ('70 Code, § 915.01)
§ 52.02 INSPECTION REQUIRED PRIOR TO BACKFILLING.
   Any person, firm or corporation installing any water line, storm sewer line,
sanitary sewer line or laterals or any street, or making any improvements
thereto, is required to notify the respective city inspector and secure an
inspection thereof before the improvement is backfilled or in any manner
covered up by earth or other substance. ('70 Code, § 915.02) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 FAILURE TO OBTAIN INSPECTION; STOPPING WORK.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall backfill or in any other way cover
any improvement without first having obtained an inspection thereof, as herein
provided, shall, at their own expense, re-excavate or uncover such improvement
or installation in order that the same way be adequately inspected. Upon
refusal of any person, firm or corporation to so re-excavate or uncover, as
required, no further work shall be done on the improvement until the re-
excavation or uncovering has been completed, inspection made and approval
thereof secured. ('70 Code, § 915.03) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04 DRAINS NEAR WATER WELLS.
   No person shall construct or maintain any drain within 500 feet of any well
used in connection with or constituting a part of the water works system of the
city. ('70 Code, § 915.04) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$50. Each day's continued violation shall constitute a separate offense. ('70
Code, § 915.99)
CHAPTER 53: GARBAGE AND TRASH REMOVAL
Section
53.01   Definitions
53.02   Container requirements
53.03   Contents of containers
53.04   Supervision of waste collection and removal
53.05   Placement of containers for collection
53.06   Special collections
53.07   Dumpster and other private hauler containers
53.08   Burying or burning garbage prohibited
53.09   On-call refuse collection service
53.10   Grass and lawn debris collection and disposal
53.11   Exclusive rights to collect
53.12   Waste disposal fee
53.13   Delinquency; collection
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   (A)   GARBAGE. Putrescible wastes, and includes every refuse accumulation of
animal, fruit or vegetable matter, used or intended for food, or that attends
the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit
or vegetables.
   (B)   TRASH. All waste capable of being burned, such as wooden or cardboard
boxes, crates and cartons, wooden barrels, lumber scraps or shavings, rags or
discarded wearing apparel and bedding, excelsior, straw, grass, leaves, lawn,
flower, shrubbery or tree trimmings, paper and magazines or any other material
capable of being burned. The term TRASH also includes ashes, glass, tin cans,
crockery, metal, junk or other nonburnable waste.
   (C)   WASTE. All trash, rubbish, garbage and other refuse or discarded
material required to be removed from private and public places, exclusive of
recognized industrial by-products; or any highly explosive materials; or any
poisonous substance whatsoever. For the purpose of this chapter, the materials
shall be classified as garbage and trash.
   (D)   GRASS.  Plant life waste which accumulates through the yard mowing
process.
   (E)   LAWN DEBRIS. Plant life waste which includes leaves, thatch, light
brush, shrubbery trimmings, weeds and crop residue.
   (F)   PRIVATE WASTE COLLECTOR. “Private waste collector” shall mean any
person, firm or corporation engaged in the practice of operating their own
trucks for the removal of their own waste, and not in the commercial waste
collection business.
(Ord. 3587. Passed 6-28-16.)
§ 53.02 CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS.
   The City shall collect and dispose of waste from containers provided or
approved, by the City. It shall be the duty of every resident, retailer,
wholesaler, dealer in food stuff, and every person, firm, or corporation to
provide or cause to be provided a portable container or containers for storage
of waste materials approved by the City.
   (A)   Mobile Containers (Toters). These containers shall be provided by or
acquired from the city. The City will provide one toter per customer. Expected
lifespan of this toter is typically 10-12 years. Replacement of this toter due
to damage or neglect by the customer will be the responsibility of the
customer. Additional toters, shall be purchased from the city at the current
cost shown in the General Fee Schedule. Effective the first quarter of 2016,
the cost per toter is $81.00.
   (B)   Residential garbage containers. These containers shall be galvanized
iron, plastic, or other nonrusting material of substantial construction. They
shall hold not less than 10, nor more than 32 gallons; but in no case will the
combined weight of the container and contents exceed 50 pounds. Containers
shall have handles on the outside by which they may be lifted and emptied; they
shall be water-tight and provided with tight-fitting lids to keep out water and
animals. The lids shall be equipped with a handle and shall be kept in place
except when removed to empty or load the container. Plastic refuse can liners,
not to exceed 32 gallons capacity or 50 pounds in weight, may be used if
littering and animals are not a problem.
   (C)   Trash containers. Trash containers may be baskets, crates or
containers of such size (50 pounds maximum) as may be easily handled by one man
and substantial enough not to be broken in handling. Cardboard cartons should
not be used when there is danger of precipitation. Wet cardboard containers
will be refused. Containers will be maintained in a sanitary condition at all
times. These containers are to be covered to prevent littering at all times.
(Ord. 3587. Passed 6-28- 16.)
§ 53.03 CONTENTS OF CONTAINERS.
   Each resident using the municipal refuse collection system shall place or
cause to be placed in containers as hereinbefore described, all waste created
or accumulated on his premises or the premises under his control; and no person
or persons shall throw, place, or deposit any waste materials on any public or
private property. All garbage shall be drained of excess liquids or fluids and
wrapped in paper before depositing in containers, in order that the material
may be easily removed. All grass shall be handled as described in §
53.10. Shrubbery or tree trimmings are not required to be placed in containers
but must first be cut into lengths of not more than four feet and tied into
bundles not more than 18 inches in diameter, before the material will be
removed by the municipal trash collection service. No person shall place in any
container any industrial or commercial waste, any explosive, or any poisonous
substance whatsoever.
(Ord. 3587. Passed 6-28-16.)
§ 53.04 SUPERVISION OF WASTE COLLECTION AND REMOVAL.
   It shall be the duty of the Service Director to supervise the collection and
removal of residential waste within the city. That subject to the approval of
the City Manager, the Service Director shall establish and update when
necessary the refuse policies governing the city waste collection services.
(Ord. 3587. Passed 6-28-16.)
§ 53.05 PLACEMENT OF CONTAINERS FOR COLLECTION.
   Containers of waste material shall be placed in a readily accessible
location at curb side or in alley at each premise before 6:00 a.m. on the day
scheduled for pickup. Due to littering problems, in no case shall the material
be placed at curb side earlier than 5:00 p.m. of the day preceding the
scheduled collection day. All containers shall be removed from the collection
area by 4:30 p.m. of the day following collection day. Other than described
herein, no containers shall be kept in the area in front of the house or
garage. In no event will refuse be removed by city crews from garages,
buildings, or any location other than dedicated and improved city streets or
alleys. It shall be the responsibility of the owner or his agent to clean up in
the refuse collection area any materials spilled by reason of improper
containers, overloading of containers, or littering by animals, or severe
weather. (Ord. 3587. Passed 6-28-16.)
§ 53.06 SPECIAL COLLECTIONS.
   The City may provide additional waste collection and disposal services as
needed. Collection of materials that will not fit in a standard container or
that pose special collection difficulties will be made once quarterly during
the months of January, May, July, and October. At that time materials such as
appliances, furniture, tree and shrubbery trimmings, automotive and other metal
parts, and materials from home alterations (when work performed by the home
owner or occupant) will be collected. These materials will be collected from
the same location at curbside or alley as the regular refuse pickup. When
weather conditions, labor or mechanical problems occur, the City reserves the
right to cancel or reschedule these collections. If any mattress, furniture, or
other item is found to contain Bed Bugs, those items will be tagged with a
hanger and will not be picked up. Those items containing Bed Bugs shall be
removed from the collection area by the customer, wrapped in plastic, and
sealed with tape and then placed out for the next available pick up. (Ord.
3587. Passed 6-28-16.)
§ 53.07 DUMPSTER AND OTHER PRIVATE HAULER CONTAINERS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the owner or occupant to maintain these in
a sanitary and nuisance-free condition. They shall be rodent-proof and emptied
at such intervals as to prevent fly and litter problems. The areas around these
containers shall be kept free of litter and rodents at all times. (Ord. 3587.
Passed 6-28-16.)
§ 53.08 BURYING OR BURNING GARBAGE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall bury or burn any garbage, as defined in §
53.01, or throw or leave the same in or upon any street, court, lane, alley,
public square, public enclosure, vacant lot or in any pond, stream or body of
water or branch thereof within the limits of the city. However, on the days
scheduled by council for the collection of the waste, the vessel, vessels or
containers containing the same may be placed on the premises in obedience to
and in compliance with §
53.05. (Ord. 3587. Passed 6-28- 16.)
§ 53.09 ON-CALL REFUSE COLLECTION SERVICE.
   (A)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to continue the on-call special
refuse collection service to those properties normally served by the weekly and
quarterly refuse collection service.
   (B)   The current cost for on-call refuse collection is as shown in the
General Fee Schedule. Effective the first quarter of 2016, the on-call refuse
collection cost is $21.00 per occurrence. The charge for this service shall be
for items that can be handled by a maximum of two employees without the need of
motorized equipment. Should a pickup require motorized equipment to assist in
lifting, or be extensive enough to exceed one-half hour in duration, additional
fees will be assessed at the current rates for dumping, manpower and equipment
necessary to accomplish the pickup. In such case, an estimate of probable
additional costs will be given to the property owner prior to the pickup.
   (C)   During the quarterly pick up periods in January, May, July and
October, pickups requiring motorized equipment to assist in lifting, or to be
extended enough to exceed one-half hour in duration, will also have additional
fees assessed at the current rates for dumping, manpower and equipment
necessary to accomplish the pickup. In such case, an estimate of probable
additional costs will be given to the property owner prior to the pickup.
   (D)   Items as described in §
53.06 and subject to special collection service that are placed for collection
but unscheduled shall have the customer notified by hanger or letter or
certified mail or personal contact to remedy the pickup themselves or remove
said items from the collection area within 48 hours. After 48 hours, the city
will enact the special collection and assess a fee for this service. The
current cost of this unscheduled collection is as shown in the General Fee
Schedule. Effective the date of passing this Ordinance, the unscheduled
collection fee is $21.00 (on call collection service) plus $28.00
(administrative fee) for a total of $49.00. Fee for this service shall be for
items that can be handled by a maximum of two employees without the need of
motorized equipment. Should a pickup require motorized equipment to assist in
lifting, or be extensive enough to exceed one- half hour in duration,
additional fees will be assessed at the current rates for dumping, manpower and
equipment necessary to accomplish the pickup. In such case, an estimate of
probable additional costs will be given to the property owner prior to the
pickup.
   (E)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to establish the necessary
procedures for this special refuse collection service.
(Ord. 3587. Passed 6-28-16.)
§ 53.10 GRASS AND LAWN DEBRIS COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of each resident to separate grass from
other trash bagged and set out for collection by city refuse crews and this
grass shall be contained in special bags identified for the purpose of yard
waste disposal in the city. Brush tied in bundles, bagged lawn debris other
than grass, and leaves raked to the curb for the annual fall collection can be
set out with regular refuse for collection.
   (B)   The special bags to be used for the purpose of grass disposal shall be
available from the city and may be made available at those retail outlets
within the city that wish to offer the bags for sale. The current cost for
special bags is as shown in the General Fee Schedule. Effective for the first
quarter of 2016, the cost is $1.35 per bag.
   (C)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to establish the necessary
procedure for implementing this program for the collection and disposal of
grass.
(Ord. 3587. Passed 6-28-16.)
§ 53.11 EXCLUSIVE RIGHTS TO COLLECT.
   To provide for residential garbage, refuse and/or recyclable collection, and
to control truck traffic in its residential areas, the City shall hold
exclusive rights to collect and dispose of garbage and refuse from residential
households. No other person or agency shall be permitted to collect such
material for hire in the City. Private waste collectors are permitted to
collect refuse for residential apartments, and commercial and industrial
establishments not serviced by the City.
(Ord. 3587. Passed 6-28-16.)
§ 53.12 WASTE DISPOSAL FEE.
   The City may charge the owner, or assess the property, or both, for the cost
of collecting and disposing of waste from property located within the City. The
current cost for refuse collection is as shown in the General Fee Schedule.
Effective with the first quarter of 2016, the fee for refuse collection service
shall be $51.09 per quarter.
   The fee is for the weekly collection and disposal of waste by the City from
a waste container provided by the City, or a like quantity of waste in a
container approved by the City. Each residence and business serviced by the
City shall have its own waste container or containers. For purposes of this
section, a residence is each unit in an apartment or housing complex and each
part of a house or residential structure providing separate living quarters,
including a bath, kitchen, and sleeping room, for an individual or group of
individuals, related or otherwise. For purposes of this section, a business is
each unit in a commercial building or strip center for an individual or group
of individuals. The fee is also for the quarterly pickup of large items as set
forth in Section
53.06, leaf collection, and also for the recyclables collection service.
   The City shall include the fee on the property owner’s utility bill, or as a
separate bill, and the property owner shall pay the fee in the manner and
amount specified on the bill. A property owner may, by agreement, require a
tenant or lawful occupant of the property to pay to the City the fee; however,
in the event of nonpayment, the property owner remains responsible for paying
the fee.
(Ord. 3587. Passed 6-28-16.)
§ 53.13 DELINQUENCY; COLLECTION.
   All fees for refuse collection are due and payable upon receipt. If the bill
is not paid on or before the fifteenth day after mailing such notice, a penalty
of ten percent (10%) shall be posted to the account. If the account is not paid
within 28 days after mailing such notice, a 48-hour notice of service shut-off
shall be mailed to the affected address and to the owner if that address is not
his place of residence. If more than one user is to be affected by such shut-
off, notices shall be mailed to all persons. If the bill is not paid upon the
expiration of the 48-hour period, the Finance Director may certify such charges
to the County Auditor, who shall place the same on the tax duplicate and
collect the charges thereon and penalties therefor in the same manner as other
taxes are collected. (Ord. 3587. Passed 6-28-16.)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation doing anything declared by this chapter to
be unlawful or failing or refusing to perform any duty set forth in this
chapter shall be fined not more than $50 for each day of violation. (Ord. 3587.
Passed 6-28-16.)
CHAPTER 54: PREVAILING WAGE LAW
Section
54.01   Wages and hours on public works
§ 54.01 WAGES AND HOURS ON PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   R.C. §§ 4115.01 through 4115.16, as amended from time to time,
sometimes referred to as the prevailing wage laws, are hereby expressly
declared not to be incorporated into the ordinances of the city.
   (B)   Neither the city council nor any city officers or employees shall be
bound by any of the provisions of the state statutes known as the prevailing
wage laws, nor shall they designate a prevailing wage coordinator to perform
any responsibilities set forth in those statutes.
   (C)   Contracts entered into by the city shall not comply with the
prevailing wage statutes except to the extent any subsequent legislation
specifically provides to the contrary or except to the extent the city is
required to comply with the statutes as a condition of obtaining funds. (Ord.
2233, passed 12-23-80)
CHAPTER 55: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
Section
55.01   Definitions
55.02   Discharge of hazardous materials; cleanup or abatement; liability for
costs
55.03   Billing responsible persons; payment to the city; appeal
Off-Site Infectious Waste Treatment Facility or Treatment Facility
55.15   Fee
55.16   Definitions
55.17   Return; remittance of fee
55.18   Disposition of fee
55.99   Penalty
§ 55.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COST INCURRED BY CITY. Includes all costs and expenses of the city in
connection with the cleanup or abatement of the discharge of hazardous
materials or the extinguishing of a fire involving hazardous materials and
shall include, but shall not necessarily be limited to the following: actual
labor costs of city personnel involved in cleanup or abatement of the discharge
(including workers compensation benefits, fringe benefit and administrative
overhead); cost of equipment operation, damage or loss as published and updated
by the Finance Department of the city; cost of materials obtained by the city;
and cost of any contract labor and materials.
   DISCHARGE. To leak, seep, spill or otherwise release.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
Fire Chief or his authorized representatives, to pose an unreasonable and
imminent risk to life, health or safety of persons or property or to the
ecological balance of the environment including, but not limited to,
explosives, radioactive materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases,
poisons, etiologic (biological) agents, flammables, corrosives, or any
substance determined to be hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law,
statute or regulations.
   THIRD PARTY. Any person, company or business entity other than the city and
its officers and employees.
(Ord. 2802, passed 5-28-91)
§ 55.02 DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS; CLEANUP OR ABATEMENT; LIABILITY FOR
COSTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to discharge any hazardous materials in the city
without first obtaining a permit from all appropriate federal and state
authorities as well as the Fire Chief.
   (B)   The Fire Department is authorized to clean up, or abate the effects
of, any hazardous material discharged upon or into any property or facilities
within the city where such discharge creates a hazard to individuals, property
or the environment. The Fire Department may be assisted in such cleanup or
abatement by any other fire department or any third parties as necessary to
protect against or eliminate such hazard.
   (C)   Any person who discharges, or otherwise causes a discharge of,
hazardous material and any person who owns or controls the hazardous materials
container at the time of discharge shall be jointly and severally liable to the
city for the payment of all costs incurred by the city as a result of such
cleanup or abatement by the city, regardless of fault.
   (D)   For purposes of this chapter, the person who discharges or causes the
discharge of hazardous materials, or who owns or controls the container at the
time of discharge, if an individual, shall include that individual's employer
and any related entity of the employer; if a corporation or partnership, that
person shall include any entity legally related to such corporation or
partnership.
   (E)   The authority to recover costs incurred by the city shall not include
costs for fire suppressing services which are normally or customarily provided
by the Fire Department unless the fire involves hazardous materials or services
not normally or customarily provided by the Fire Department.
   (F)   The remedies provided by this chapter shall be in addition to any
other remedies provided by law.
(Ord. 2802, passed 5-28-91)
§ 55.03 BILLING RESPONSIBLE PERSONS; PAYMENT TO THE CITY; APPEAL.
   (A)   The city shall within 60 days of completion of the cleanup or
abatement of any hazardous material discharge, send an invoice for the costs
incurred by the city in connection with such discharge to the person determined
by the city to be responsible for such discharge pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   The person responsible for such hazardous material discharge shall
submit payment for the invoice to the city within 30 days of receipt of the
invoice.
   (C)   Any person determined by the city to be responsible for a hazardous
material discharge may appeal to the City Manager any invoice sent pursuant to
this section by sending a written notice of appeal to the City Manager within
15 days of receipt of the invoice. The appeal shall be heard by the City
Manager and his decision shall be final.
   (D)   The city may institute an action for the recovery of costs billed, or
take any other action provided by law.
(Ord. 2802, passed 5-28-91)
OFF-SITE INFECTIOUS WASTE TREATMENT FACILITY OR TREATMENT FACILITY
§ 55.15 FEE.
   A fee of $5 per ton is levied upon all off-site infectious waste treatment
facilities and/or treatment facilities located within the city, for the
treatment of infectious waste at the treatment facility.
(Res. 34-93, passed - -)
§ 55.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INFECTIOUS WASTE. Has the same meaning as provided in R.C. § 3734.01.
   OFF-SITE INFECTIOUS WASTE TREATMENT FACILITY and TREATMENT FACILITY. Have
the same meaning as provided in R.C. § 3734.023.
(Res. 34-93, passed - -)
§ 55.17 RETURN; REMITTANCE OF FEE.
   (A)   The owner or operator of an off-site infectious waste treatment
facility shall pay the fees levied herein monthly to the City Finance Director
in accordance with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Environmental
Protection under R.C. § 3734.026. The remittance of such fee shall be
accompanied by a return indicating the total amount of infectious waste
received at the facility for treatment during the month to which the return
applies.
   (B)   If the monthly return and remittance of the fees are not submitted to
the Finance Director within 60 days after the last day of the month to which
the return and the remittance apply or within 60 days after the date otherwise
established by the Ohio Director of Environmental Protection, the owner or
operation shall pay a penalty of an additional 50% of the amount of the
remittance for each month it is late.
(Res. 34-93, passed - -)
§ 55.18 DISPOSITION OF FEE.
   The money received by the Finance Director shall be paid into the general
fund of the city for the purpose of providing funding or conducting
environmental monitoring programs in connection with the off-site infectious
waste treatment facilities located within the city; providing local emergency
response services in connection with such a facility and transportation of
infectious waste to such a facility; and providing financial assistance to the
Montgomery County Board of Health for the enforcement of the infectious waste
provisions of the Ohio Revised Code and rules, orders, terms and conditions of
permits and licenses adopted or issued under such provisions.
(Res. 34-93, passed - -)
§ 55.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates §
55.17 shall be fined not more than $10,000. Each day the violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Res. 34-93, passed - -)
CHAPTER 56: WASTEWATER PRETREATMENT
Section
56.01   General provisions
56.02   Definitions
56.03   Regulations
56.031   General discharge prohibitions
56.032   Limitation on waste water strength
56.033   Accidental discharges
56.04   Fees
56.041   Purpose
56.042   Charges and fees
56.05   Administration
56.051   Wastewater discharges
56.052   Wastewater discharge permits
56.053   Reporting requirements for permittee
56.054   Monitoring facilities
56.055   Inspection and sampling
56.056   Confidential information
56.057   Changed discharges
56.058   Bypasses
56.06   Enforcement
56.061   Emergency suspension of service and discharge permit
56.062   Revocation of permit
56.063   Notification of violation; administration adjustment
56.064   Show cause hearing
56.065   Judicial proceedings
56.066   Enforcement action-annual publications
56.067   Right of appeal
56.068   Operating upsets
56.07   Penalties
56.071   Recovery of costs incurred by the authority
56.072   Falsifying information
56.08   Records retention
56.09   Miscellaneous
56.091   Removal credits
56.092   Net/gross calculations
56.10   Severability
56.11   Conflict
Appendix A:   Toxic Priority Pollutants
Appendix B:   Conventional Pollutants
Appendix C:   Industrial discharges subject to categorical pretreatment
standards
Appendix D:   Local pretreatment standards
§ 56.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for discharges into the
POTW authority wastewater collection and treatment systems, and enables the
authority to protect public health in conformity with all applicable local,
state, and federal laws relating thereto.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the authority
wastewater system which will interfere with the normal operation of the system
or contaminate the resulting municipal sludge.
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the authority
wastewater system which do not receive adequate treatment in the POTW, and
which will pass through the system into receiving waters or the atmosphere or
otherwise be incompatible with the system.
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewater and
sludge from the system.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of discharges into the
authority wastewater system through the issuance of permits. This chapter does
not provide for the recovery of operations, maintenance, or replacement costs
of the POTW or the costs associated with the construction of collection and
treatment systems used by industrial discharges, in proportion to their use of
the POTW, which are the subject of separate enactments.
(Ord. 2466, passed 9-25-84; amend. Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91)
§ 56.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.), as amended.
   ADMINISTRATIVE (AO'S) Enforcement documents which direct industrial users to
undertake or to cease specified activities.
   APPLICABLE PRETREATMENT STANDARD OR PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any pretreatment
limit or prohibitive standard (federal or local) contained in this chapter
deemed to be the most restrictive with which nondomestic users will be required
to comply.
   AUTHORITY. The state or local governmental entity enacting and enforcing
this chapter.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER. An authorized representative
of an industrial user may be the following.
      (1)   A principal executive officer of at least the level of vice-
president, if the industrial user is a corporation.
      (2)   A general partner or proprietor if the industrial user is a
partnership or proprietorship, respectively.
      (3)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated above
if such representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the indirect discharge originates.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD) (of sewage, sewage effluent, polluted
waters, or industrial wastes). The quantity of dissolved oxygen in milligrams
per liter required during stabilization of the decomposable organic matter by
aerobic biochemical action under standard laboratory procedures for five days
at 20°C. The laboratory determinations shall be made in accordance with
procedures set forth in STANDARD METHODS.
   BYPASS. The intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of an
industrial user's treatment facility.
   CFR. Code of Federal Regulations.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. National pretreatment standards
specifying quantities or concentrations of pollutants or pollutant properties
which may be discharged or introduced into a POTW by specific industrial
dischargers.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction of nondomestic
pollutants from a source regulated under Section 307 (b), (c) or (d) of the
Act, into a POTW.
   INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGER. A source of indirect discharge.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Solid, liquid, or gaseous waste resulting from any
industrial, manufacturing, trade, or business process or from the development,
recovery, or processing of natural resources.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, both inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its
treatment processes or operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal,
and therefore, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the POTW's NPDES
permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation) or
of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with the
following statutory provisions and regulations or permits issued thereunder (or
more stringent state or local regulations): Section 405 of the Clean Water Act,
the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (including Title II, more commonly referred
to as the Resource Conservation Recovery Act (RCRA), and including state
regulations contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to
subtitle D of the SWDA, the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act,
and the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act.
   NEW SOURCE. Any building, structure, facility or installation from which
there is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which
commenced after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under
Section 307 (c) of the Act which will be applicable to such source if such
standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided
that:
      (1)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed at
a site at which no other source is located;
      (2)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally replaces
the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at
an existing source; or
      (3)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the building,
structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of an
existing source at the same site.
   NPDES. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit program as
administered by the USEPA or state.
   O & M. Operation and maintenance.
   OTHER WASTES. Decayed wood, sawdust, shavings, bark, lime, refuse, ashes,
garbage, offal, oil, tar, chemicals, and all other substances except sewage and
industrial wastes.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the POTW's NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude
or duration of a violation).
   POTW. Any sewage treatment works and the sewers and conveyance appurtenances
discharging thereto, owned and operated by the authority.
   POLLUTANT. Any substance discharged into a POTW or its collection system,
listed in Appendices A and B of this chapter, or any substance which upon
exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause adverse effects such
as cancer, genetic mutation, or physiological manifestations as defined in
standards issued pursuant to Section 307 (a) of the Act.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutants' properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or
otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW.
   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage to
the treatment facilities which causes them to  become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property damage does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   SEWAGE. Water-carried human wastes or a combination of water-carried wastes
from residences, business buildings, institutions, and industrial
establishments, together with such ground, surface, storm, or other waters as
may be present.
   SEWER. Any pipe, conduit, ditch, or other device used to collect and
transport sewage or storm water from the generating source.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGER.
      (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this definition, the term
Significant Discharger includes:
         (1)   All industrial dischargers subject to categorical pretreatment
standards; and
         (2)   Any other industrial discharger that: discharges an average of
25,000 gallon per day or more of process wastewater to the POTW; contributes a
process wastestream which makes up 5% or more of the average dry weather
hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment plants or has a reasonable
potential, in the opinion of the Authority, to adversely affect the POTW's
operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
   (B)   The authority may at any time, on its own initiative or in response to
a petition received from an industrial discharger, determine that a
noncategorical industrial discharger is not a Significant Industrial Discharger
if the industrial discharger has no reasonable potential to adversely affect
the POTW's operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE. An industrial user is in significant
noncompliance if its violations meet one or more of the following criteria:
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of all of the measurements taken during a six-month
period exceed (by any magnitude) the daily maximum limit or the average limit
for the same pollutant parameter;
      (2)   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of all of the measurements for each pollutant parameter
taken during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the daily
maximum limit or the average limit multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC=1.4
for BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except
pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (daily maximum
or longer term average) that the authority determines has caused, alone or in
combination with other discharges, interference or pass through (including
endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public);
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
of human health, welfare or to the environment or has resulted in the POTW's
exercise of emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide, within 30 days after the due date, required
reports such as baseline monitoring reports, 90 day compliance reports,
periodic self-monitoring reports, and reports on compliance with compliance
schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; and
      (8)   Any other violation or group of violations which the Authority
determines will or has adversely affected the operation or implementation of
the city's pretreatment program.
   SLUDGE. Any solid, semi-solid, or liquid waste generated from the municipal
wastewater treatment plant, or any other waste having similar characteristics
and effects as defined in standards issued under Section 402, 405 of the
Federal Act and in the applicable requirements under Sections, 3001, 3004 and
4004 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act.
   SLUGLOAD. Any substance released in a discharge at a rate or concentration
which causes interference to a POTW.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
“Standard Industrial Classification” manual issued by the Executive Office of
the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1972.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of STANDARD METHODS FOR THE EXAMINATION OF WATER AND
WASTEWATER prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   TOXIC POLLUTANTS. Those substances listed in Appendix A in this chapter.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to sanitary sewers
and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which a discharger unintentionally and
temporarily is in a state of noncompliance with the standards set forth in
Appendices A through D of this chapter due to factors beyond the reasonable
control of the discharger, and excluding noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or improper
operation thereof.
   VIOLATION. An occasion of noncompliance with any term or condition of
federal, state, or local pretreatment regulations, including, without
limitation, numerical discharge limitations and other conditions contained in a
user's discharge permit.
   WASTEWATER. Industrial waste, or sewage, or any other waste including that
which may be combined with any ground water, surface water, or storm water,
that may be discharged to the POTW.
(Ord. 2466, passed 9-25-84; Am. Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91)
§ 56.03 REGULATIONS.
   The provisions regarding general discharge prohibitions, limitations on
wastewater strength and accidental discharges can be found in §§
56.031 through 56.033.
(Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91)
§ 56.031 GENERAL DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   No discharger shall contribute or cause to be discharged, directly or
indirectly, any of the following described substances into the wastewater
disposal system or otherwise to the authority.
   (A)   Any pollutants which create a fire or explosion hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140 degrees Fahrenheit or 60 degrees Centigrade using the test method
specified in 40 CFR 261.21 or pollutants which may be injurious in any way to
the operation of the POTW.
   (B)   Solid or viscous substances which will or may cause obstruction to the
flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater
system.
   (C)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or higher than 10 or having
any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, or personnel of the system.
   (D)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction, to injure or interfere with any wastewater
treatment process, or constitute a hazard to humans or animals.
   (E)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids which either
singly or by interaction are capable of creating a public nuisance or hazard to
life, or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers for their maintenance
and repair.
   (F)   Any substance which may cause the POTW's effluent or treatment
residues, sludges, or scums, to be unsuitable for reclamation and reuse or to
interfere with the reclamation process. In no case shall a substance discharged
to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance with sludge use or disposal
criteria, guidelines, or regulations developed under Section 405 of the Act;
any criteria, guide-lines, or regulations affecting sludge use or disposal
developed
pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the Toxic
Substances Control Act, or state standards applicable to the sludge management
method being used.
   (G)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES or other
disposal system permits.
   (H)   Any substance with objectionable color not removed in the treatment
process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions.
   (I)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference; but in no case,
wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the POTW which exceeds
40°C (104°F).
   (J)   Any slugload, which shall mean any pollutant, including oxygen
demanding pollutants (BOD), released in a single extraordinary discharge
episode of such volume or strength as to cause interference to the POTW.
   (K)   Any unpolluted water including, but not limited to, noncontact cooling
water.
   (L)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such
halflife or concentration as exceed limits established by the authority in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
   (M)   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life, creates a public
nuisance or which results in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or fumes
within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and safety
problems.
   (N)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral oil
origin if discharged in amounts that can pass through or cause interference.
(Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91) Penalty, see §
56.07
§ 56.032 LIMITATIONS ON WASTEWATER STRENGTH.
   (A)   National categorical pretreatment standards. National categorical
pretreatment standards as promulgated by the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) pursuant to the Act and as adopted as Appendix C of this chapter
shall be met by all dischargers of the regulated categories. An application for
modification of the national categorical pretreatment standards may be
considered for submittal to the regional administrator by the authority, when
the authority's wastewater treatment system achieves consistent removal of the
pollutants as defined by 40 CFR § 403.7.
   (B)   State requirements. State requirements and limitations on dischargers
to the POTW shall be met by all dischargers which are subject to such standards
in any instance in which they are more stringent than federal requirements and
limitations or those in this or any other applicable chapter.
   (C)   Right of revision. The authority reserves the right to amend this
chapter to provide for more stringent limitations or requirements on discharges
to the POTW where deemed necessary to comply with the objectives set forth in §
56.01.
   (D)   Dilution. No discharger shall increase the use of potable or process
water in any way, nor mix separate waste streams for the purpose of diluting a
discharge as a partial or complete substance for adequate treatment to achieve
compliance with the standards set forth in this chapter.
   (E)   Supplementary limitations. No discharger shall discharge wastewater
containing concentrations or mass limitations of the enumerated materials,
exceeding the values listed in Appendix D. The authority may impose mass
limitations on dischargers which are using dilution to meet the pretreatment
standards or requirements of this chapter, or in other cases where the
imposition of mass limitations is deemed appropriate by the authority.
(Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91) Penalty, see §
56.07
§ 56.033 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Each discharger shall provide protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited or regulated material or substance established by this chapter.
Where necessary, facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited
materials shall be provided and maintained at the discharger's cost and
expense. Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to provide
this protection shall be submitted to the authority for review, and shall be
approved by the authority before construction of the facility. Each existing
discharger shall complete its plan and submit same to the authority by January
1, 1985. No discharger who discharges to the POTW after the aforesaid date
shall be permitted to introduce pollutants into the system until accidental
discharge protection procedures have been approved by the authority. Review and
approval of such plans and operating procedures by the authority shall not
relieve the discharger from the responsibility to modify its facility as
necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Dischargers shall notify the authority immediately upon the occurrence
of a slugload, or accidental discharge of substance prohibited by this chapter.
The notification shall include location of discharge, date and time thereof,
type of waste, concentration and volume, and corrective actions. Any discharger
who discharges a slugload of prohibited materials shall be liable for any
expense, loss, or damages to the POTW, in addition to the amount of any fines
imposed on the authority on account thereof under state or federal law.
   (C)   Signs shall be permanently posted in conspicuous places on
discharger's premises, advising employees whom to call in the event of a slug
or accidental discharge. Employers shall instruct all employees who may cause
or discover such a discharge with respect to emergency notification procedure.
(Ord. 2466, passed 9-25-84; Am. Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91) Penalty, see §
56.07
§ 56.04 FEES.
   Provisions regarding charges and fees for this chapter can be found in
Section
 37.15 of Chapter 37.
(Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91; amend. Ord. 3436. passed 12-22-09)
§ 56.041 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this section to provide for the payment of fees from
dischargers to the authority for the cost of administration of the pretreatment
program established in this chapter.
(Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91)
§ 56.042 CHARGES AND FEES.
   The city shall adopt charges and fees which may include the following.
   (A)   Fees for monitoring, inspections, and surveillance procedures.
   (B)   Fees for permit applications.
   (C)   Fees for filing appeals.
   (D)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and construction.
(Ord. 2466, passed 9-25-84; Am. Ord. 2469, passed 10-23-84; Am. Ord. 2794,
passed 4-23-91)
§ 56.05 ADMINISTRATION.
   Provisions regarding the following can be found in §§
56.051 through 56.058: wastewater dischargers; wastewater discharge permits;
reporting requirements for permittee; monitoring facilities; inspection and
sampling; confidential information; changed discharges; and bypasses.
(Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91)
§ 56.051 WASTEWATER DISCHARGERS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge industrial wastes or other wastes without
a permit issued by the authority to any sewer within the jurisdiction of the
authority, or to the POTW. No person shall access the sewer system or POTW for
any activity including discharge of hauled septic or industrial wastes except
at locations and at times as designated by the authority. Any removal of
manhole lids, or other access to the sewer system for the purpose of
discharging wastes at times and/or locations other than those designated by the
authority, or without the expressed permission of the authority, shall be
considered a violation and shall be subject to enforcement action, including
fines and penalties allowed under this chapter.
(Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91) Penalty, see §
56.07
§ 56.052 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS.
   (A)   General permits. All industrial dischargers proposing to connect to or
to discharge industrial wastes and other wastes to the POTW shall obtain a
wastewater discharge permit before connecting to or discharging to the POTW.
All existing industrial dischargers connected to or discharging to the POTW
shall obtain a wastewater permit within 90 days after the effective date of
this chapter.
   (B)   Permit application. Industrial dischargers shall complete and file
with the authority, a permit application therefor in the form prescribed by the
authority, and accompanied by the appropriate fee. Existing industrial
dischargers shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit within 30 days after
the effective date of this chapter, and proposed new dischargers shall apply at
least 90 days prior to discharging into the POTW. No discharge permit shall be
issued unless and until the following conditions have been met.
      (1)   Disclosure of name, address, and location of the discharger.
      (2)   Disclosure of Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) number to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as
amended.
      (3)   Disclosure of wastewater constituents and characteristics including
but not limited to those mentioned in this chapter including Appendices A and
B, and C as appropriate, as determined by bona fide chemical and biological
analyses. Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with
procedures established by the U.S. EPA and contained in 40 CFR, Part 136, as
amended.
      (4)   Disclosure of time and duration of discharges.
      (5)   Disclosure of average daily and instantaneous peak wastewater flow
rates, in gallons per day, including daily, monthly, and seasonal variations,
if any. All flows shall be measured unless other verifiable techniques are
approved by the authority due to cost or nonfeasibility.
      (6)   Disclosure of site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing
plans, and details to show all sewers, sewer connections, inspection manholes,
sampling chambers, and appurtenances by size, location, and elevation.
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or may be discharged to the sewers
or works of the authority.
      (8)   Disclosure of the nature and concentration of any pollutants or
materials prohibited by this chapter in the discharge, together with a
statement regarding whether or not compliance is being achieved with this
chapter on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional operation and
maintenance activities or additional pretreatment is required for the
discharger to comply with this chapter.
      (9)   Where additional pretreatment or operation and maintenance
activities will be required to comply with this chapter, the discharger shall
provide a declaration of the shortest schedule by which the discharger will
provide such additional pretreatment or implementation of additional
operational and maintenance activities.
         (a)   The schedule shall contain milestone dates for the commencement
and completion of major events leading to the construction and operation of
additional pretreatment required for the discharger to comply with the
requirements of this chapter including, but not limited to, dates relating to
hiring an engineer, hiring other appropriate personnel, completing preliminary
plans, completing final plans, executing contract for major components,
commencing construction, completing construction, and all other acts necessary
to achieve compliance with this chapter.
         (b)   Under no circumstance shall the authority permit a time
increment for any single step directed toward compliance which exceeds nine
months. New sources shall install and have in operating condition and shall
“start-up” all pollution control equipment required to meet applicable
pretreatment standards before beginning to discharge and achieve compliance
within the shortest feasible time, not to exceed 90 days.
         (c)   Not later than 14 days following each milestone date in the
schedule and the final date for compliance, the discharger shall submit a
progress report to the authority, including no less than a statement as to
whether or not it complied with the increment of progress represented by that
milestone date and, if not, the date on which it expects to comply with this
increment of progress, the reason for delay, and the steps being taken by the
discharger to return the construction to the approved schedule. In no event
shall more than nine months elapse between such progress reports to the
authority.
      (10)   Disclosure of each product produced by type, amount, process or
processes, and rate of production.
      (11)   Disclosure of the type and amount of raw materials utilized
(average and maximum per day).
      (12)   All permit applications for new modified permits shall be signed
by a principal executive officer of the discharger, and a qualified engineer,
and all renewal applications for existing permits shall be signed by a
principal executive officer of the discharger.
      (13)   All sewers shall have an inspection and sampling manhole or
structure with an opening of no less than 24 inches in diameter and an internal
diameter of no less than 48 inches containing flow measuring, recording, and
sampling equipment as required by the authority to assure compliance with this
chapter.
      (14)   The authority will evaluate the complete application and data
furnished by the discharger and may require additional information. Within 30
days after full evaluation and acceptance of the data furnished, the authority
shall issue a wastewater discharge permit subject to terms and conditions
provided in this section.
   (C)   Permit modifications. The authority reserves the right to amend any
wastewater discharge permit issued hereunder in order to assure compliance by
the authority with applicable laws and regulations. Within nine months of the
promulgation of a national categorical pretreatment standard, the wastewater
discharge permit of each discharger subject to such standards shall be revised
to require compliance with such standards within the time frame prescribed by
such standards. All national categorical pretreatment standards adopted after
the promulgation of this chapter shall be adopted by the authority as part of
this chapter. Where an industrial discharger, subject to a national categorical
pretreatment standard, has not previously submitted an application for a
wastewater discharge permit from the authority within 180 days after the
promulgation of the applicable national categorical pretreatment standard by
the U.S. EPA. In addition, the discharger with an existing wastewater discharge
permit shall submit to the authority within 180 days after the promulgation of
an applicable national categorical pretreatment standard, the information
required by subdivisions (8) and (9) of §
56.052. The discharger shall be informed of any proposed changes in his permit
at least 30 days prior to the effective date of change. Any changes or new
conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for
compliance. A baseline monitoring report form, to be furnished by the
authority, will be completed by all industrial dischargers subject to a
national categorical pretreatment standard.
   (D)   Permit conditions. Wastewater discharge permits shall specify no less
than the following.
      (1)   Fees and charges to be paid upon initial permit issuance.
      (2)   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics regulated thereby.
      (3)   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization.
      (4)   Special conditions as the authority may reasonably require under
particular circumstances of a given discharge including sampling locations,
frequency of sampling, number, types, and standards for tests and reporting
schedule.
      (5)   Compliance schedules.
      (6)   Requirements for submission of special technical reports or
discharge reports where same differ from those prescribed by this chapter.
   (E)   Permit duration. All wastewater discharge permits shall be issued for
perpetual duration, subject to amendment or revocation as provided in this
chapter. Under extraordinary circumstances, a permit may be issued for a stated
period or may be stated to expire on a specific date.
   (F)   Limitations on permit transfer. Wastewater discharge permits are
issued to a specific discharger for a specific operation and are not assigned
to another discharger without the prior written approval of the authority, or
transferable to any other location.
(Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91) Penalty, see §
56.07
§ 56.053 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMITTEE.
   (A)   Compliance date report.
      (1)   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance by the
discharger with applicable pretreatment standards set forth in this chapter or
90 days following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW
by a new discharger, any discharger subject to this chapter shall submit to the
authority a report indicating the nature and concentration of all prohibited or
regulated substance contained in its discharge, and the average and maximum
daily flow in gallons.
      (2)   The report shall state whether the applicable pretreatment
standards or requirements are being met on a consistent basis and, if not, what
additional O & M or pretreatment is necessary to bring the discharger into
compliance with the applicable pretreatment standards or requirements. This
statement shall be signed by an authorized representative of the discharger,
and certified to by a qualified engineer.
   (B)   Periodic compliance reports.
      (1)   Any discharger subject to a pretreatment set forth in this chapter,
after the compliance date of the pretreatment standard, or, in the case of a
new discharger, after commencement of the discharge to the authority, shall
submit to the authority during the months of June and December, unless required
more frequently by the authority, a report indicating the nature of prohibited
or regulated substances in the effluent which are limited by the pretreatment
standards of this section. In addition, this report shall include a record of
all measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows during the reporting
period in this section. Flows shall be reported on the basis of actual
measurement, provided however, where cost or feasibility considerations
justify, the authority may accept reports of average and maximum flows
estimated by verifiable techniques. The authority, for good cause shown
considering such factors as local high or low flow rates, holidays, budget
cycles, or other extenuating factors may authorize the submission of the
reports on months other than those specified above.
      (2)   Reports of permittees shall contain all results of sampling and
analysis of the discharge, including the flow and the nature and concentration,
or production and mass where required by the authority. The frequency of
monitoring by the discharger shall be as prescribed in the applicable
pretreatment standard of this chapter. All analyses shall be performed in
accordance with 40 CFR, Part 136 and amendments thereto. Where 40 CFR, Part 136
does not include a sampling or analytical technique for the pollutant in
question, sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with the
procedures set forth in the EPA publication, “Sampling and Analysis Procedures
for Screening of Industrial Effluents for Priority Pollutants,” April, 1977,
and amendments thereto, or with any other sampling and analytical procedures
approved by the Administrator of the U.S. EPA.
      (3)   If sampling performed by a discharger indicates a violation of
discharge limitations, whether or not the sampling was required of the
discharger by the authority, the discharger shall notify the authority within
24 hours after becoming aware of the violation. The discharger shall also
repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the result of the repeat analysis
to the authority within 30 days after becoming aware of the violation. The user
is not required to resample if the authority performs sampling at the
discharger between the time when the discharger performs its initial sampling
and the time when the discharger received the result of this sampling.
      (4)   The reports required of industrial dischargers by this chapter, by
applicable pretreatment regulations, by applicable discharge permits issued by
the authority, or by enforcement actions against an industrial discharger
pursuant to this chapter, shall be signed by an authorized representative of
the discharger.
(Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91) Penalty, see §
56.07
§ 56.054 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Each discharger shall provide and operate at the discharger's own
expense, a monitoring facility to allow inspection, sampling, and flow
measurement of each sewer discharge to the authority. Each monitoring facility
shall be situated on the discharger's premises, except where such a location
would be impractical or cause undue hardship on the discharger, the authority
may concur with the facility being constructed in the public street or sidewalk
area providing that the facility is located so that it will not be obstructed
by landscaping or parked vehicles.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near the sampling facility to allow
accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The facility,
sampling, and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe
and proper operating condition at the expense of the discharger.
   (C)   All monitoring facilities shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with all applicable local construction standards and specifications.
   (D)   Construction shall be completed within 120 days or receipt of permit
by discharger or within the extension period granted by the authority.
(Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91) Penalty, see §
56.07
§ 56.055 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The authority may inspect the monitoring facilities of any discharger to
determine compliance with the requirements of this chapter. The discharger
shall allow the authority or its representatives, upon presentation of
credentials of identification, to enter upon the premises of the discharger for
the purposes of inspection, sampling, or examine and/or copy records. The
authority shall have the right to set up on the discharger's property such
devices as are necessary to conduct sampling, inspection, compliance
monitoring, or metering operations.
(Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91) Penalty, see §
56.07
§ 56.056 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data furnished to the authority with respect to the
nature and frequency of discharge shall be available to the public or other
governmental agency without restriction unless the discharger specifically
requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the authority that
the release of such information would divulge information, processes, or
methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets or proprietary
information of the discharger.
   (B)   When requested by a discharger furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which may disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public but shall be made available upon written
request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit, state disposal system
permit, or the pretreatment programs; provided, however, that such portions of
a report shall be available for use by the state or any state agency in
judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the discharger furnishing
the report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be recognized
as confidential information.
   (C)   Information accepted by the authority as confidential shall not be
transmitted to any governmental agency or to the general public by the
authority until and unless a ten-day notification is given to the discharger.
(Ord. 2466, passed 9-25-84; Am. Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91) Penalty, see §
56.07
§ 56.057 CHANGED DISCHARGES.
   All industrial dischargers shall promptly notify the authority in advance of
any substantial change in the volume or character of pollutants in their
discharge, including the listed or characteristic hazardous wastes for which
the industrial user has submitted initial notification under 40 CFR 403.12(p).
(Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91) Penalty, see §
56.07
§ 56.058 BYPASSES.
   A bypass of any pretreatment process is prohibited unless:
   (A)   The bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury,
or severe property damage;
   (B)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as, but not
limited to: the use of auxiliary treatment units, retention of untreated wastes
or maintenance during normal periods of equipment down time; and
   (C)   The industrial discharger submitted notice to the authority.
(Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91) Penalty, see §
56.07
§ 56.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   Provisions regarding enforcement of this chapter can be found in §§
56.061 through 56.068.
(Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91)
§ 56.061 EMERGENCY SUSPENSION OF SERVICE AND DISCHARGE PERMITS.
   The authority may for good cause shown suspend the wastewater treatment
service and the wastewater discharge permit of a discharger when it appears to
the authority that an actual or threatened discharge presents or threatens an
imminent or substantial danger or to the health or welfare of persons,
substantial danger to the environment, interferes with the operation of the
POTW, violates any pretreatment limits imposed by this chapter or any
wastewater discharge permit issued pursuant to this chapter. Any discharger
notified of the suspension of the authority's wastewater treatment service or
the discharger's wastewater discharge permit, shall within a reasonable period
of time, as determined by the authority, cease all discharges. In the event of
failure of the discharger to comply voluntarily with the suspension order
within the specified time, the authority shall commence judicial proceedings
immediately thereafter to compel the discharger's compliance with the order.
The authority shall reinstate the wastewater discharge permit or the wastewater
treatment service and terminate judicial proceedings pending proof by the
discharger of the elimination of the noncomplying discharge or conditions
creating the threat of imminent or substantial danger as set forth above.
(Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91)
§ 56.062 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The authority may revoke the permit of any discharger which fails to do the
following.
   (A)   Factually report the wastewater constituents and characteristics of
its discharge.
   (B)   Report significant changes in wastewater constituents or
characteristics.
   (C)   Refuses reasonable access to the discharger's premises by
representatives of the authority for the purpose of inspection or monitoring.
   (D)   Violates the conditions of its permit, or this chapter, or any final
judicial order entered with respect thereto.
(Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91) Penalty, see §
56.07
§ 56.063 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION; ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUSTMENT.
   Whenever the authority finds that any discharger has engaged in conduct
which justifies revocation of a wastewater discharge permit, pursuant to §
56.062, the authority shall serve or cause to be served upon the discharger a
written notice either personally or by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, stating the nature of the alleged violation. Within 30 days
of the date of receipt of the notice, the discharger shall respond personally
or in writing to the authority, advising of its position with respect to the
allegations. Thereafter, the parties shall meet to ascertain the veracity of
the allegations and where necessary, establish a plan for the satisfactory
correction thereof.
(Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91) Penalty, see §
56.07
§ 56.064 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   Where the violation of §
56.062 is not corrected by timely compliance by means of administrative
adjustment, the authority may order any discharger which causes or allows
conduct prohibited by §
56.062, to show cause before the authority or its duly authorized
representative, why the proposed permit revocation action should not be taken.
A written notice shall be served on the discharger by personal service,
certified or registered, return receipt requested, specifying the time and
place of a hearing to be held by the authority or its designee regarding the
violation, the reasons why the enforcement action is to be taken, the proposed
enforcement action, and directing the discharger to show cause before the
authority or its designee why the proposed enforcement action should not be
taken. The notice of the hearing shall be served no less than ten days before
the hearing. Service may be made on any agent, officer, or authorized
representative of a discharger.
   (B)   The proceeding at the hearing shall be considered by the authority
which shall then enter appropriate orders with respect to the alleged improper
activities of the discharger. Appeal of such orders may be taken by the
discharger in accordance with applicable provisions of the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91)
§ 56.065 JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS.
   Following the entry of any order by the authority with respect to the
conduct of a discharger contrary to the provisions of §
56.062, the attorney for the authority may, following the authorization of such
action by the authority, commence an action for appropriate legal or equitable
relief in the Montgomery County Ohio Common Pleas Court.
(Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91)
§ 56.066 ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS; ANNUAL PUBLICATIONS.
   A list of all significant dischargers which were the subject of enforcement
proceedings pursuant to §§
56.06 through 56.068 of this chapter during the 12 previous months, shall be
annually published by the authority in the newspaper of general circulation in
the municipality in which the authority is located, summarizing the enforcement
actions taken against the dischargers during the same 12 months whose
violations remained uncorrected 45 days after notification of noncompliance; or
which have exhibited a pattern of noncompliance over that 12-month period, or
which involve failure to accurately report noncompliance.
(Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91)
§ 56.067 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Any discharger, other user of the POTW, or governmental agency, shall have
the right to request in writing an interpretation or ruling by the authority on
any matter covered by this chapter and shall be entitled to a prompt written
reply. In the event that such inquiry is by a discharger and deals with matters
of performance or compliance with this chapter or deals with a wastewater
discharge permit issued pursuant hereto for which enforcement activity relating
to an alleged violation is the subject, receipt of a discharger's request shall
stay all enforcement proceedings pending receipt of the aforesaid written
reply. Appeal of any final judicial order entered pursuant to this chapter may
be taken in accordance with applicable provisions of the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91)
§ 56.068 OPERATING UPSETS.
   (A)   Any discharger which experiences an upset in operations which places
the discharger in a temporary state of noncompliance with this chapter or a
wastewater discharge permit issued pursuant hereto shall inform the authority
thereof within 24 hours of first awareness of the commencement of the upset.
Where such information is given orally, a written follow-up report thereof
shall be filed by the discharger with the authority within five days. The
report shall specify the following.
      (1)   A description of the upset, the cause thereof, and the upset's
impact on a discharger's compliance status.
      (2)   The duration of noncompliance, including exact dates and times of
noncompliance, and if the noncompliance continues, the time by which compliance
is reasonably expected to occur.
      (3)   All steps taken or to be taken to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
recurrence of such an upset or other conditions of noncompliance.
   (B)   A documented and verified bona fide operating upset shall be an
affirmative defense to any enforcement action brought by the authority against
a discharger for any noncompliance with the chapter or any wastewater discharge
permit issued pursuant hereto, which arises out of violations alleged to have
occurred during the period of the upset.
(Ord. 2466, passed 9-25-84; Am. Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91) Penalty, see §
56.07
§ 56.07 PENALTIES.
   Any discharger who is found to have violated an order of the authority or
who has failed to comply with any provisions of the chapter, and the
regulations, or rules of the authority, or orders of any court of competent
jurisdiction or permits issued hereunder, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree. Each day's violation shall constitute a separate offense and
the penalty for each violation may be up to $1,000 per day per violation.
(Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91)
Statutory reference:
   Penalties for misdemeanors, see R.C. § 2929.21
§ 56.071 RECOVERY OF COSTS INCURRED BY THE AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Any discharger violating any of the provisions of this chapter, or who
discharges or causes a discharge producing a deposit or obstruction, or causes
damage to or impairs the authority's wastewater disposal system, shall be
liable to the authority for any expense, loss, or damage caused by the
violation or discharge.
   (B)   The authority shall bill the discharger for the costs incurred by the
authority for any cleaning, repair, or replacement work caused by the violation
or discharge. The minimum amount of cost assessed for each violation may be up
to $1,000 per day per violation. Refusal to pay the assessed costs shall
constitute a violation of this chapter enforceable under the provisions of §§
56.06 through 56.068.
(Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91)
§ 56.072 FALSIFYING INFORMATION.
   Any person who knowingly makes any false statement, representation, or
certification in any application, record, report, plan, or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter, or wastewater discharge
permit, or who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any
monitoring device or method required under this chapter, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day's violation shall constitute a
separate offense and the minimum penalty for each violation shall be $1,000 per
day per violation.
(Ord. 2466, passed 9-25-84; Am. Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91)
§ 56.08 RECORDS RETENTION.
   All dischargers subject to this chapter shall retain and preserve for no
less than three years, any records, books, documents, memoranda, reports,
correspondence, and any and all summaries thereof, relating to monitoring,
sampling, and chemical analyses made by or in behalf of a discharger in
connection with its discharge. All records which pertain to matters which are
the subject of administrative adjustment or any other enforcement or litigation
activities brought by the authority pursuant hereto shall be retained and
preserved by the discharger until all enforcement activities have concluded and
all periods of limitation with respect to any and all appeals have expired.
(Ord. 2466, passed 9-25-84; Am. Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91)
§ 56.09 MISCELLANEOUS.
   Provisions regarding removal credits and net/gross calculations can be found
in §§
56.091 and 56.092.
(Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91)
§ 56.091 REMOVAL CREDITS.
   Where applicable, the authority may elect to initiate a program of removal
credits as part of this chapter to reflect the POTW's ability to remove
pollutants in accordance with 40 CFR Part 403.7.
(Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91)
§ 56.092 NET/GROSS CALCULATIONS.
   The authority may elect to adjust categorical pretreatment standards to
reflect the presence of pollutants in the discharger's intake water, in
accordance with 40 CFR Part 403.15.
(Ord. 2466, passed 9-25-84; Am. Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91)
§ 56.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision, paragraph, word, section or chapter of this chapter is
invalidated by any court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions,
paragraphs, words, sections and chapters shall not be affected and shall
continue in full force and effect.
(Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91)
§ 56.11 CONFLICT.
   All other ordinances and parts of other ordinances inconsistent or
conflicting with any part of this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of
such inconsistency or conflict.
(Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91)
APPENDIX A: TOXIC PRIORITY POLLUTANTS
Acenaphthene                  Bis (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate
Acrolein                  Butyl benzyl phthalate
Acrylonitrile                  Di-n-butyl phthalate
Benzene                  Di-n-octyl phthalate
Benzidine                  Diethyl phthalate
Carbon tetrachloride
(tetrachloromethane)               Dimethyl phthalate
Chlorobenzene                  Benzo (a) anathracene
1, 2, 4-Trichlorobenzene               (1,2-benzanthracene)
Hexachlorobenzene               Benzo (a) pryene
1, 2 Dichloroethane               (3, 4-benzopyrene)
1, 1, 1-Trichloroethane               3, 4-Benzofluoranthene
Hexachloroethane               Benzo (k) fluoranthane
1, 1-Dichloroethane               (11, 12-benzofluoranthene)
1, 1, 2-Trichloroethane               Chrysene
1, 1, 2, 2-Tetrachloroethane            Acenaphthylene
Chloroethane                  Anthracene
                     Benzo (ghi) perylene
                     (1, 12-benzoperylene)
2-Chloroethyl vinyl ether (mixed)            Fluorene
2-Chloronaphthalene               Phenanthrene
2, 4, 6-Trichlorophenol               Dibenzo (a, h) anthracene
Parachlorometacresol               Indeno (1, 2, 3,-cd) pyrene
Chloroform (trichloromethane)            Pyrene
2-Chlorophenol                  Tetrachloroethylene
1, 2-Dechlorobenzene               Toluene
1, 3-Dichlorobenzene               Trichloroethylene
1, 4-Dichlorobenzene               Vinyl chloride (chloroethylene)
3, 3'-Dichlorobenzidine               Aldrin
1, 1-Dichloroethylene               Dieldrin
1, 2-Trans-dichloroethylene            Chlordane (tech. mixture &
2, 4-Dichlorophenol               metabolites)
1, 2-Dichloropropane               4,4'-DDT
1, 3-Dichloropropylene               4,4'-DDE (p,p'DDX)
2, 4-Dimethylphenol               4,4'-DDD(p,p'-TDE)
2, 4-Dinitrotoluene               Alpha-endosulfan
2, 6-Dinitrotoluene               Beta-endosulfan
1, 2-Diphenylhydrazine               Endosulfan sulfate
Ethlbenzene                  Endrin
Fluoranthene                  Endrin aldehyde
4-Chlorophenyl phenyl ether            Heptachlor
4-Bromophenyl phenyl ether            Heptachlor expoxide
Bis (2-chloroisopropyl) ether            Alpha-BHC
Bis (2-chloroethoxy) methane            Beta-BHC
Methylene chloride               Gamma-BHC (lindane)
(dichloromethane)
Methyl bromide                  Delta-BHC
Bromoform (tribromomethane)            PCB-1242 (Aroclor 1242)
Dichlorobromomethane               PC8-1254 (Aroclor 1254)
                     PCB-1221 (Aroclor 1221)
                     PC8-1232 (Aroclor 1232)
Chlorodibromomethane               PC8-1248 (Aroclor 1248)
Hexachlorobutadiene               PCB-126O (Aroclor 1260)
Isophorone                  PCB-1016 (Aroclor 1016)
Naphthalene                  Toxaphene
Nitrobenzene                  Antimony (Total)
2-Nitrophenol                  Arsenic (Total)
4-Nitrophenol                  Asbestos (Fibrous)
2, 4-Dinitrophenol               Beryllium (Total)
4, 6-Dinitro-o-cresol               Cadmium (Total)
N-nitrosodimethylamine               Chromium (Total)
N-nitrosodiphenylamine               Copper (Total)
N-nitrosoli-n-propylamine            Cyanide (Total)
Pentachlorophenol               Lead (Total)
Phenol (4APP method)               Mercury (Total)
Nickel (Total)                  Selenium (Total)
Silver (Total)                  Thallium (Total)
Zinc (Total)                  2, 3, 7, 8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD)
(Ord. 2466, passed 9-25-84; Am. Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91)
APPENDIX B: CONVENTIONAL POLLUTANTS
      Dissolved solids
      Suspended Solids
      Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD)
      Total organic carbon (TOC)
      Chemical oxygen demand (COD)
      Nitrogen
      Phosphorus
      Chlorides
      pH
      Oil and grease
(Ord. 2466, passed 9-25-84; Am. Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91)
APPENDIX C: INDUSTRIAL CATEGORIES SUBJECT TO CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS
Adhesives                  Pulp and paper
Leather tanning and finishing            Textile mills
                     Timber
Soaps and detergents               Coal mining
Aluminum forming               Ore mining
Battery manufacturing               Petroleum refining
Coil coating                  Steam electric
Copper forming                  Organic chemicals
Electroplating                  Pesticides
Foundries                  Pharmaceuticals
Iron and steel                  Pesticide materials
Nonferrous metals               Rubber
Photographic supplies               Auto and other
Plastics processing               Laundries
Porcelain enamel               Mechanical products
Gum and wood chemicals               Electric and electronic
Paint and ink                  Components
Printing and publishing               Explosives Manufacturing
Inorganic chemicals
1. Effective Standard identified in 40 CFR.
(Ord. 2466, passed 9-25-84; Am. Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91)
APPENDIX D: LOCAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS
PRIORITY POLLUTANTS
   Limits for priority pollutants will be displayed in each industrial
discharger's permit.
CONVENTIONAL POLLUTANTS WITH MAXIMUM DISCHARGE LIMITS
Pollutant                  Maximum Discharge Limit   
Oil and grease (Freon Extractable)            100 mg/l   
pH                     5.0 to 10.0 Standard Units   
CONVENTIONAL POLLUTANT LIMITS FOR USER
CHARGE SUBCHARGE CALCULATIONS
Pollutant                  Limit   
Total Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD)         300 mg/l   
Suspended Solids (SS)               300 mg/l   
(Ord. 2466, passed 9-25-84; Am. Ord. 2794, passed 4-23-91)
CHAPTER 58: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
58.01   General provisions
58.02   Duties and responsibilities of the City Manager
58.03   Duties and responsibilities of the Service Director
58.04   Duties and responsibilities of the Division of Code Enforcement
58.05   Duties and responsibilities of the City Council
58.06   Duties and responsibilities of the Board of Water and Sewer Charge
Adjustment
58.07   Duties and responsibilities of the Law Director
58.08   Emergency measures
58.09   Violations
58.10   Enforcement procedures
58.11   Cease and desist order
58.12   Public nuisance
58.13   Appeal procedures
58.14   Liability
58.99   Penalty
§ 58.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Chapter 50 through 58 to include all associated appendices as well as
General Regulations Chapters 92 and 97 shall be known as the Public Works Code
of the City of West Carrollton, hereinafter referred to as “this code”.
   (B)   The provisions of this code are designed and intended to promote the
health, safety, and general welfare of the residents of the community.
   (C)   The administration and enforcement of this code is vested in the
following offices, boards or commissions of the city:
      (1)   City Manager
      (2)   Service Director
      (3)   Division of Code Enforcement
      (4)   City Council
      (5)   Board of Water and Sewer Charge Adjustment
      (6)   Law Director
(Ord. 3644, passed 3-12-19)
§ 58.02 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager shall perform such duties consistent with their office as
may be required by the Charter, by ordinance or resolution of the Council, or
by the laws of the state unless otherwise provided by ordinance of Council.
Said duties shall include but not be limited to the following as they pertain
to this code.
   (A)   As conferred by Charter Section 6.02, subsections (2) and (9), the
City Manager shall appoint a Service Director to administer the provisions of
this code.
   (B)   As provided for by Charter Section 6.02, subsection (9), the City
Manager hereby delegates enforcement powers of this code to the Service
Director or his/her designee and to the Division of Code Enforcement.
(Ord. 3644, passed 3-12-19)
§ 58.03 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE SERVICE DIRECTOR.
   As directed by the City Manager, the Service Director shall oversee all
activities as they relate to streets; refuse collection; water; sanitary sewer;
stormwater management; flood management; rights-of-way and any such other
duties as the City Manager may prescribe to the Service Director.
(Ord. 3644, passed 3-12-19)
§ 58.04 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE DIVISION OF CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   As directed by the City Manager, the duties and responsibilities of the
Division of Code Enforcement for the enforcement of this code include but are
not limited to:
   (A)   Enforce the provisions of this code.
   (B)   Interpret the requirements of the text of this code. Where there are
questions in the interpretation, the Code Enforcement Officer shall consult
with the necessary city staff, including but not limited to the Service
Director, Law Director, Director of Planning and Community Development, and/or
Civil Engineer to clarify the questions.
   (C)   Where violations are reported or observed, the Division of Code
Enforcement shall determine whether a violation of this code exists, and if so,
shall seek redress in accordance with §
58.09.
   (D)   Right of entry. In accordance with constitutional provisions governing
searches and seizures, the Code Enforcement Officer shall have the authority to
enter all buildings or upon all premises at all reasonable hours to inspect or
investigate or to perform the duties imposed upon the Code Enforcement Officer
by this code. If such building or premises is occupied, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall present credentials to the occupant and request entry. If such
building or premises is unoccupied, the Code Enforcement Officer shall first
make a reasonable effort to locate the owner, the owner's authorized agent or
other person having charge or control of the building or premises and request
entry. If entry is refused, the Code Enforcement Officer has recourse to every
remedy provided by law to secure entry, including obtaining a warrant in
accordance with R.C. § 2933.21(F).
   (E)   Warrant. When the Code Enforcement Officer has obtained a proper
administration inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure
entry, an owner, the owner's authorized agent or occupant or person having
charge, care or control of the building or premises shall not fail or neglect,
after proper request is made as herein provided, to permit entry therein by the
Code Enforcement Officer for the purpose of inspection and examination pursuant
to this code.
   (F)   Identification. The Code Enforcement Officer shall carry proper
identification when inspecting structures or premises in the performance of
his/her duties under this code.
   (G)   Notices and orders. The Code Enforcement Officer shall issue all
necessary notices or orders in accordance with §
58.09 to ensure compliance with this code.
   (H)   The Division of Code Enforcement shall prepare and submit reports
concerning the administration and enforcement of this code to the City Manager,
Service Director, Law Director or Director of Planning and Community
Development upon request.
(Ord. 3644, passed 3-12-19)
§ 58.05 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall initiate, or act on changes or amendments to this
code.
(Ord. 3644, passed 3-12-19)
§ 58.06 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF WATER AND SEWER CHARGE
ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   A Board of Water and Sewer Charge Adjustment is hereby established,
consisting of the Service Director, a citizen appointed by Council and a
Council Member designated by majority vote of Council. The citizen appointed by
Council shall be appointed for a three-year term.
   (B)   The purpose of the Board of Water and Sewer Charge Adjustment shall be
to hear requests for adjustments in amounts of water and sewer charges billed,
when it is felt that the application of this chapter results in an inequitable
situation.
   (C)   An applicant may petition the Board and the Board may grant an
adjustment if the applicant proves to the Board's satisfaction that the
adjustment is justified.
   (D)   The members of the Board of Water and Sewer Charge Adjustment may,
from time to time, adopt and amend rules of procedure, to assist in effecting
the purpose of this section. A copy of any such rules or amendments shall be
filed with the Clerk of Council prior to becoming effective.
   (E)   Minutes of the hearings by the Board of Water and Sewer Charge
Adjustment will be kept and will also be filed with the Clerk of Council.
(Ord. 3644, passed 3-12-19)
§ 58.07 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LAW DIRECTOR.
   The Law Director shall perform such duties consistent with their office as
may be required by the Charter, by ordinance or resolution of the Council, or
by the laws of the state unless otherwise provided by ordinance of Council.
(Ord. 3644, passed 3-12-19)
§ 58.08 EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   (A)   When in the opinion of the Chief Code Enforcement Officer or his/her
designee through consultation with either the Law Director, City Manager,
Service Director, Division of Fire, and/or Division of Police there exists a
physical hazard due to the existence of an unsafe condition or situation posing
a danger to one's safety or to that of one's property, the Chief Code
Enforcement Officer or his/her designee may cause without notice said condition
and/or situation threatening life or property to be eliminated by either
temporary or permanent means.
   (B)   Notwithstanding other provisions of this code, whenever, in the
opinion of the Chief Code Enforcement Officer or his/her designee through
consultation with either the Law Director, City Manager, Service Director,
Division of Fire, and/or Division of Police, there exists a physical hazard due
to the existence of an unsafe condition or situation, the Chief Code
Enforcement Officer or his/her designee shall order the necessary work to be
done, to render such unsafe condition or situation safe whether or not the
legal procedure herein described has been instituted; and shall cause such
other action to be taken as the Chief Code Enforcement Officer or his/her
designee may deem necessary to meet such emergency.
   (C)   Costs incurred in the performance of such work shall be paid by the
authority having jurisdiction. The legal counsel for the authority having
jurisdiction shall institute appropriate action against those who caused the
unsafe condition or situation and to recover any and all costs including an
administrative fee as set forth in Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the
Codified Ordinances of the City of West Carrollton.
(Ord. 3644, passed 3-12-19)
§ 58.09 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Unlawful acts. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to be in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of
this code.
   (B)   Notice of violation. The Division of Code Enforcement shall serve all
notices of violation or orders in accordance with §
58.10. Issuance of a notice of violation shall not be a bar against, or
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the offender(s).
   (C)   Prosecution of violation. Any person, firm or corporation failing to
comply with a notice of violation or order served in accordance with §
58.10 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and the violation shall be
deemed a strict liability offense. If the notice of violation or order is not
complied with, the Division of Code Enforcement shall institute the appropriate
proceeding at law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or
to require the removal or termination of the unlawful action in violation of
the provisions of this code or of the notice, order or direction made pursuant
thereto. Any action taken by the authority having jurisdiction on such premises
shall be charged against the real estate and shall be a lien upon such real
estate.
   (D)   Violation penalties. Violation penalties within this code include both
civil and criminal remedies. Whoever violates any provision of this code, or
fails to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof, shall be
guilty of the provisions set forth in §
58.99. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been served
shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (E)   Requirements not covered by code. Requirements necessary for the
strength, stability or proper operation of a pipe, fixture, structure or
equipment, or for the public safety, health and general welfare, not
specifically covered by this code, shall be determined by the Chief Code
Enforcement Officer or his/her designee.
(Ord. 3644, passed 3-12-19) Penalty, see §
58.99
§ 58.10 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Notice to person, firm or corporation responsible. Whenever the Code
Enforcement Officer determines that there has been a violation of this code or
has probable cause to believe that a violation has occurred, notice shall be
given in the manner prescribed in divisions (B) and (C) of this section to the
person, firm or corporation responsible for the violation as specified in this
code.
   (B)   Form. Such notice prescribed in §
58.09(B) shall be in accordance with all of the following:
      (1)   Be in writing.
      (2)   Identify the violation;
      (3)   Include a statement of the reason or reasons why it is being issued
and reference the section(s) of this code being violated; and
      (4)   State the time by which the violation shall be corrected.
   (C)   Method of service. Such legal notice shall be deemed to be properly
served if a copy thereof is (a) delivered to the person, firm or corporation,
in person or (b) sent by certified or registered mail addressed to the person,
firm or corporation at the last known mailing address with return receipt
requested or (c) posted in a conspicuous place in or about the premises
affected:
      (1)   If the registered or certified mail envelope is returned with an
endorsement showing that the service was unclaimed, the notice may be served by
ordinary mail to the person, firm or corporation's last known mailing address.
This mailing shall be evidenced by a certificate of mailing, and service shall
be deemed complete on that date of mailing.
      (2)   When service is perfected by posting notice on or about the
premises affected, such posting shall be evidenced by a photograph and a
notarized certificate of service. Such notice, photograph, and certificate of
service shall be sent by ordinary mail to the person, firm or corporation's
last known mailing address as evidenced by a certificate of mailing, and
service shall be deemed completed on that date.
      (3)   If service of written notice is unable to be perfected by any of
the hereinbefore methods, the City Manager or his/her designee shall cause the
notice to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city, once
each week for two consecutive weeks, and service shall be deemed completed on
the second date of publication.
   (D)   Penalties. Penalties for noncompliance with orders and notices shall
be as set forth in §§
58.09(D) and 58.99.
   (E)   Transfer of ownership. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any
premises who has received a notice or order to sell, transfer, mortgage, lease
or otherwise dispose of such premises to another until the provisions of the
notice or order been complied with, or until such owner shall first furnish the
grantee, transferee, mortgagee or lessee a true copy of any notice or order
issued by the Code Enforcement Officer and shall furnish to the Code
Enforcement Officer a signed and notarized statement from the grantee,
transferee, mortgagee or lessee, acknowledging the receipt of such notice or
order fully accepting the responsibility without condition for making the
corrections or repairs required by such notice or order.
(Ord. 3644, passed 3-12-19)
§ 58.11 CEASE AND DESIST ORDER.
   (A)   Whenever the Code Enforcement Officer finds any work or action
regulated by this code being performed in a manner contrary to the provisions
of this code; the approved plans or in a dangerous or unsafe manner, the Code
Enforcement Officer is authorized to issue a cease and desist order. Issuance
of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for,
taking any other action against the offender(s).
   (B)   A cease and desist order shall be in writing and shall be given to the
offending person, firm, corporation or agent to the offending person, firm or
corporation. Upon issuance of a cease and desist order, the cited work or
action shall immediately cease. The cease and desist order shall state the
reason for the order, and the conditions under which the cited work or action
is authorized to resume,
   (C)   Emergencies. Where an emergency exists, the Code Enforcement Officer
shall not be required to give a written notice prior to stopping said work or
action. Reference §
58.08.
   (D)   Any person, firm, corporation or agent to the offending person, firm
or corporation who shall continue said work or action after having been issued
and/or directed to cease and desist said work or action other than that work or
action needed to remove a violation or unsafe condition shall be liable to the
penalties set forth in §
58.99 and cited with obstructing official business under R.C. § 2921.31.
(Ord. 3644, passed 3-12-19) Penalty, see §
58.99
§ 58.12 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. In
addition to any other relief provided by this chapter, the Law Director may
apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for an injunction to prohibit any
violation or threatened violation of this code. Such application for relief may
include but not be limited to seeking a temporary restraining order,
preliminary injunction and permanent injunction. The Law Director may also sue
for money damages on behalf of the city.
(Ord. 3644, passed 3-12-19)
§ 58.13 APPEAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Appeal. Any person, firm, corporation or agent of any person, firm or
corporation seeking to dispute a notice or order may file an appeal.
      (1)   The appeal shall be filed in writing and received by the Service
Director, in writing, within ten days of receipt of the notice or order. If the
notice of appeal is not received by the Service Director within the ten-day
period, the right of appeal is waived. The notice of appeal shall state with
particularity the basis upon which the appellant is disputing the action taken.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a timely filed appeal, the Service Director shall
set a date and time for the appeal hearing, no more than 30 days from receipt
of the timely filed appeal. The Service Director may postpone or continue any
hearing sua sponte or upon a motion of the appellant or the Service Director.
In setting the hearing date, the Service Director shall consider: (1) the
number and complexity of the issues to be resolved; (2) the number of witnesses
and their availability; (3) the amount of civil discovery reasonably necessary
to prepare for the hearing; (4) the availability of the Hearing Examiner. The
appellant shall be notified in writing of the date, time and place for the
appeal hearing. The Service Director or his/her designee shall serve as the
Hearing Examiner. The Hearing Examiner shall confer with the parties or their
legal counsel to establish a case management schedule to govern the appeal and
hearing, including an appropriate time for civil discovery, to be governed by
the Ohio Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   Appeal hearing.
      (1)   The Hearing Examiner may admit and give probative effect to
evidence that possesses probative value commonly accepted by reasonable prudent
persons in the conduct of their affairs. The Hearing Examiner shall give effect
to the rules of privilege recognized by law. The hearing examiner may exclude
incompetent, irrelevant, immaterial, and unduly repetitious evidence. Factual
issues shall be resolved by a preponderance of evidence.
      (2)   Documentary evidence may be received in the form of copies or
excerpts or by incorporation by reference.
      (3)   Every party, or its legal counsel, shall have the right to cross
examine witnesses who testify and shall have the right to submit rebuttal
evidence; provided that the hearing examiner may control the manner and extent
of the cross examinations and rebuttal. The hearing shall be recorded or
otherwise transcribed to create a record.
      (4)   The Hearing Examiner may take notice of judicially cognizable
facts.
      (5)   The burden of proof and proceeding shall reside with the appellant.
   (C)   Appeal conclusion. Within ten days of the conclusion of the hearing,
the Hearing Examiner shall determine if the disputed action was proper, and
shall approve, modify, or rescind the disputed action. The Hearing Examiner may
postpone or continue the ten-day period sua sponte or upon a motion of the
appellant or the Service Director to allow for: (1) transcription of the
record, or (2) filing of post-hearing proposed findings of fact and conclusions
of law by the parties. The final determination of the Hearing Examiner shall be
in writing, and all parties shall be provided a copy of the final
determination.
   (D)   Judicial review of appeal. Any party is entitled to a review of the
final determination of the Hearing Examiner in a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 3644, passed 3-12-19)
§ 58.14 LIABILITY.
   No officer, agent or employee of the City of West Carrollton shall be
personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a
result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of duties under this
code.
(Ord. 3644, passed 3-12-19)
§ 58.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation, or agent of any person, firm or corporation
who fails to comply with a notice or order issued pursuant to this code shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not more than
one thousand dollars ($1,000) or imprisoned for not more than six months, or
both. No culpable mental state is required to violate a notice or order issued
pursuant to this code; it being the express intent of this section to impose
strict criminal liability for each violation. Each day a violation continues is
a separate offense.
(Ord. 3644, passed 3-12-19)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
   
70.   ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCEMENT
   
71.   STREETS AND TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
   
72.   VEHICLES
   
73.   PARKING
   
74.   PEDESTRIANS, BICYCLES, AND MOTORCYCLES
   
75.   RAILROADS
   
76.   MOPED REGULATIONS
   
77.   MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSE TAX
   
79.   COMMERCIAL DRIVERS
CHAPTER 70: ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCEMENT
Section
70.01   Definitions
70.02   Enforcement and Education Fund
70.03   Motor vehicle theft prevention program
Enforcement; Impounding, Penalty
70.05   Compliance with lawful order of police officer; fleeing
70.06   Traffic direction in emergencies; obedience to school crossing guard
70.065   Resisting an enforcing official
70.07   Officer may remove ignition key
70.08   Road workers, motor vehicles and equipment excepted
70.09   Application to persons riding, driving animals upon roadway
70.10   Freeway use prohibited by pedestrians, bicycles and animals
70.11   Application to drivers of government vehicles
70.12   Impounding of vehicles; redemption
70.13   Leaving junk and other vehicles on private or public property without
permission or notification
Traffic Control
70.20   Division of traffic engineering and safety created
70.21   Authority and considerations for placement of devices
70.22   Conformity with state manual
70.23   Powers of safety director
70.24   Posting of signs and signals required
70.25   Director's powers not limited
70.26   Records of director
70.27   Reservation of power to council
70.28   Violations subject to misdemeanor classification
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. Every self-propelling vehicle designed or used for
drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery but having no provision for
carrying loads independently of the other vehicles, and used principally for
agricultural purposes.
   ALLEY. A street or highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of
lots or buildings in urban districts and not intended for the purpose of
through vehicular traffic, and includes any street or highway that has been
declared an ALLEY by council.
   ALL PURPOSE VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for
cross-country travel on land and water, or on more than one type of terrain,
and steered by wheels or caterpillar treads, or any combination thereof,
including vehicles that operate on a cushion of air, vehicles commonly known as
all-terrain vehicles, all-season vehicles, mini-bikes, and trail bikes, but
excluding any self-propelled vehicle not principally used for purposes of
personal transportation, any vehicle principally used in playing golf, any
motor vehicle or aircraft required to be registered under R.C. Chapter 4503 or
4561, and any vehicle excepted from the definition of MOTOR VEHICLE as set
forth in this section.
   BEACON means a highway traffic signal with one or more signal sections that
operate in a flashing mode.
   HYBRID BEACON means a type of beacon that is intentionally placed in a dark
mode between periods of operation where no indications are displayed and, when
in operation, displays both steady and flashing traffic control signal
indications.
   BICYCLE every device, other than a device that is designed solely for use as
a play vehicle by a child, that is propelled solely by human power, upon which
a person may ride and that has two or more wheels any of which is more than
fourteen inches in diameter. (ORC 4511.01(G))
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than 9 passengers and
used for the transportation of persons, other than in a ridesharing arrangement
and every motor vehicle, automobile for hire or funeral car, other than a
taxicab or motor vehicle used in a ridesharing arrangement, designed and used
for the transportation of persons for compensation.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory fronting upon a street or highway,
including the street or highway, between successive intersections within the
city where 50% or more of the frontage between the successive intersections is
occupied by buildings in use for business, or within the city where 50% or more
of the frontage for a distance of 300 feet or more is occupied by buildings in
use for business, and the character of the territory is indicated by official
traffic control devices.
   CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE. A motor vehicle designed to carry fewer than nine
passengers and operated for hire on an hourly basis pursuant to a prearranged
contract for the transportation of passengers on public roads and highways
along a route under the control of the person hiring the vehicle and not over a
defined and regular route. PREARRANGED CONTRACT means an agreement, made in
advance of boarding, to provide transportation from a specific location in a
chauffeured limousine at a fixed rate per hour or trip. CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE
does not include any vehicle used exclusively in the business of funeral
directing.
   CHILD CARE CENTER. Has the same meaning as set forth in R.C. § 5104.01.
   COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle having motive power designed or used
for drawing other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon,
or designed or used for drawing other vehicles while carrying a portion of the
other vehicles, or the load thereon, or both.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every street or highway in respect to which
owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right or
access to or from the same except at the points only and in the manner as may
be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over the street or
highway.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   That part of a roadway at intersections ordinarily included within
the real or projected prolongation of property lines and curb lines or, in the
absence of curbs, the edges of the traversable roadway;
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere,
distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the
surface;
      (3)   Notwithstanding divisions (1) and (2) of this section, there shall
not be a crosswalk where authorized signs have been placed indicating no
crossing.
   DRIVER OR OPERATOR. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control
of a vehicle.
   ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a “class 1 electric bicycle”, a “class 2 electric
bicycle”, or a “class 3 electric bicycle” as defined below.
      (1)   CLASS 1 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that
provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles per hour.
      (2)   CLASS 2 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that may
provide assistance regardless of whether the rider is pedaling and is not
capable of providing assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles
per hour.
      (3)   CLASS 3 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that
provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 28 miles per hour.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Emergency vehicles of municipal or county departments or
public utility corporations, when identified as such as required by law, the
director of public safety, or local authorities, and motor vehicles when
commandeered by a police officer.
   EXPLOSIVES. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is intended for
the purpose of producing an explosion that contains any oxidizing and
combustible units or other ingredients in proportions, quantities or packing
that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by percussion; or by a
detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause a sudden generation
of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous pressures are capable of
producing destructive effects on contiguous objects, or of destroying life or
limb. Manufactured articles shall not be held to be explosives when the
individual units contain explosives in limited quantities, of such nature or in
packing, that it is impossible to procure a simultaneous or a destructive
explosion of the units, to the injury of life, limb, or property by fire, by
friction, by concussion, by percussion, or by a detonator, such as fixed
ammunition for small arms, firecrackers, or safety fuse matches.
   EXPRESSWAY. A divided arterial highway for through traffic with full or
partial control of access with an excess of 50% of all crossroads separated in
grade.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70° F., or less, as
determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
   FREEWAY. A divided multi-lane highway for through traffic with all
crossroads separated in grade and with full control of access.
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle plus the weight of any load thereon.
   HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle used in snow and ice removal or road
surface maintenance, including a snow plow, traffic line striper, road sweeper,
mowing machine, asphalt distributing vehicle, or other such vehicle designed
for use in specific highway maintenance activities. (ORC 4511.01(QQQ))
   HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SIGNAL means a power-operated traffic control device by
which traffic is warned or directed to take some specific action. "Highway
traffic signal" does not include a power-operated sign, steadily illuminated
pavement markers, warning light, or steady burning electric lamp.
   INTERSECTION.
   (A)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the lateral
curb lines, or, if none, the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of two
highways that join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or the
area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways that join at any
other angle might come into conflict. The junction of an alley or driveway with
a roadway or highway does not constitute an intersection unless the roadway or
highway at the junction is controlled by a traffic control device.
   (B)   If a highway includes two roadways that are thirty feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway constitutes a separate intersection. If both intersecting highways
include two roadways thirty feet or more apart, then every crossing of any two
roadways of such highways constitutes a separate intersection.
   (C)   At a location controlled by a traffic control signal, regardless of
the distance between the separate intersections as described in subsection (b)
of this section:
      (1)   If a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk has not been designated on
the roadway within the median between the separate intersections, the two
intersections and the roadway and median constitute one intersection.
      (2)   Where a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk line is designated on
the roadway on the intersection approach, the area within the crosswalk and any
area beyond the designated stop line or yield line constitute part of the
intersection.
      (3)   Where a crosswalk is designated on a roadway on the departure from
the intersection, the intersection includes the area that extends to the far
side of the crosswalk. (ORC 4511.01(KK))
   LANED STREET OR HIGHWAY. A street or highway the roadway of which is divided
into 2 or more clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICE. Means a device weighing less than 100 pounds
that has handlebars, is propelled by an electric motor or human power, and has
an attainable speed on a paved level surface of not more than 20 miles per hour
when propelled by the electric motor.
   MEDIAN. The area between two roadways of a divided highway, measured from
edge of traveled way to edge of traveled way, but excluding turn lanes. The
width of a median may be different between intersections, between interchanges,
and at opposite approaches of the same intersection. (ORC 4511.01(NNN))
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than muscular
power or power collected from overhead electric trolley wires, except motorized
bicycles, electric bicycles, road rollers, traction engines, power shovels,
power cranes and other equipment used in construction work, and not designed
for or employed in general highway transportation, hole-digging machinery,
well-drilling machinery, ditch-digging machinery, farm machinery, and trailers
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per
hour or less.
(ORC 4511.01(B))
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle, other than a tractor, having a seat or
saddle for the use of the operator and designed to travel on not more than
three wheels in contact with the ground, including but not limited to, motor
vehicles known as "motor-driven cycle," "motor scooter," "autocycle,","cab-
enclosed motorcycle" or "motorcycle" without regard to weight or brake
horsepower. (ORC 4511.01(C))
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE or MOPED. Any vehicle having either two tandem wheels or
one wheel in the front and two wheels in the rear, that may be pedaled, and
that is equipped with a helper motor of not more than 50 cubic centimeters
piston displacement that produces not more than one brake horsepower and is
capable of propelling the vehicle at a speed of not greater than 20 miles per
hour on a level surface. The terms do not include an electric bicycle.
   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR. Any self-propelled vehicle designed for, and used by,
a handicapped person and that is incapable of a speed in excess of eight miles
per hour.
   OPERATE. “Operate” means to cause or have caused movement of a vehicle.
(ORC 4511.01(HHH))
   PARKING (when prohibited). When prohibited, means the standing of a vehicle,
whether
occupied or not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading, or receiving or discharging
passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any natural person afoot. The term includes a personal delivery
device as defined in R.C. § 4511.513 unless the context clearly suggests
otherwise.
   POLE TRAILER. Every trailer or semitrailer attached to the towing vehicle by
means of a reach, pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing
vehicle, and ordinarily used for transporting long or irregular shaped loads
such as poles, pipes or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining
themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or
to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   PREDICATE MOTOR VEHICLE OR TRAFFIC OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12, 4511.132,
4511.16, 4511.20, 4511.201, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32,
4511.33, 4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40,
4511.41, 4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451,
4511.452, 4511.46, 4511.47, 4511.48, 4511.481, 4511.49, 4511.50, 4511.511,
4511.53, 4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.56, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60,
4511.61, 4511.64, 4511.66, 4511.661, 4511.68, 4511.70, 4511.701, 4511.71,
4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, 4511.73, 4511.763, 4511.771, 4511.78, or
4511.84;
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.17(A)(2), 4511.51(A) through (D), or
4511.74(A);
      (3)   A violation of any provision of R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.76 for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section that contains the
provision violated;
      (4)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.214;
      (5)   A violation of a municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any section or provision set forth or described in division (1),
(2), (3), or (4) of this definition.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. 
   (A)   "Private road or driveway" means every way or place in private
ownership used for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or
implied permission from the owner but not by other persons. (ORC 4511.01(DD))
   (B)   "Private road open to public travel" means a private toll road or
road, including any adjacent sidewalks that generally run parallel to the road,
within a shopping center, airport, sports arena, or other similar business or
recreation facility that is privately owned but where the public is allowed to
travel without access restrictions. "Private road open to public travel"
includes a gated toll road but does not include a road within a private gated
property where access is restricted at all times, a parking area, a driving
aisle within a parking area, or a private grade crossing. (ORC 4511.01(OOO))
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Ambulances, including private ambulance companies under contract to
a municipal corporation, township, or county and private ambulances and non-
transport vehicles bearing license plates issued under R.C. § 4503.49.
      (2)   Motor vehicles used by public law enforcement officers or other
persons sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state.
      (3)   Any motor vehicle when properly identified as required by the
director of public safety, when used in response to fire emergency calls or to
provide emergency medical service to ill or injured persons, and when operated
by a duly qualified person who is a member of a volunteer rescue service or a
volunteer fire department, and who is on duty pursuant to the rules or
directives of that service. The state fire marshal shall be designated by the
director of public safety as the certifying agency for all public safety
vehicles described in division (3) above.
      (4)   Vehicles used by fire departments, including motor vehicles when
used by volunteer firefighters responding to emergency calls in the fire
department service when identified as required by the director of public
safety.
      (5)   Any vehicle used to transport or provide emergency medical service
to an ill or injured person, when certified as a public safety vehicle, shall
be considered a public safety vehicle when transporting an ill or injured
person to a hospital regardless of whether the vehicle has already passed a
hospital.
      (6)   Vehicles used by the Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety Enforcement
Unit for the enforcement of orders and rules of the Public Utilities Commission
as specified in R.C. § 5503.34.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property operating upon rails placed
principally on a private right-of-way.
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal or device erected by authority of
a public body or official or by a railroad and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, or an electric or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated by a railroad.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Shall mean and include the following:
      (1)   A travel trailer, which is a vehicular, portable structure built on
a chassis, designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel,
recreational, and vacation uses, and which is permanently identified “travel
trailer” by the manufacturer;
      (2)   A pick-up camper, which is a structure designed primarily to be
mounted on a pick-up chassis and with sufficient equipment to render it
suitable for use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational, and vacation
uses;
      (3)   A motorized home, which is a portable dwelling designed and
constructed as an integral part of a self-mounted vehicle on wheels and
designed for travel and vacation use;
      (4)   Boats and boat trailers including boats, floats, and rafts, plus
the normal equipment to transport the same on the highway;
      (5)   Fold-out tent trailers;
      (6)   Utility trailers; and/or
      (7)   Any combination of the above. (Ord. 2640, passed 1-26-88)
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory, not comprising a business district,
fronting on a street or highway, including the street or highway, where, for a
distance of 300 feet or more, the frontage is improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
   RIDESHARING ARRANGEMENT. The transportation of persons in a motor vehicle
where such transportation is incidental to another purpose of a volunteer
driver and includes ridesharing arrangements known as carpools, vanpools, and
buspools.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Either of the following, as the context requires:
      (1)   The right of a vehicle or pedestrian to proceed uninterruptedly in
a lawful manner in the direction in which it or the individual is moving in
preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching from a different
direction into its or the individual's path.
      (2)   A general term denoting land, property, or the interest therein,
usually in the configuration of a strip, acquired for or devoted to
transportation purposes. When used in this context, RIGHT-OF-WAY includes the
roadway, shoulders or berm, ditch, and slopes extending to the right-of-way
limits under the control of the state or local authority.
   ROAD SERVICE VEHICLE. Wreckers, utility repair vehicles, and state, county,
and municipal service vehicles equipped with visual signals by means of
flashing, rotating, or oscillating lights.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a street or highway improved, designed or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder. If a street
or highway includes 2 or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY means any
roadway separately but not all the roadways collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and protected or marked or indicated by adequate
signs as to be plainly visible at all times.
   SCHOOL BUS. Every bus designed for carrying more than nine passengers which
is owned by a public, private, or governmental agency or institution of
learning, and operated for the transportation of children to or from a school
session or a school function, or owned by a private person and operated for
compensation for the transportation of children to or from a school session or
a school function; provided the term does not include a bus operated by a
municipally owned transportation system, a mass transit company operating
exclusively within the territorial limits of a municipality, or within such
limits and the territorial limits of municipalities immediately contiguous to
the municipality, nor a common passenger carrier certified by the Public
Utilities Commission unless the bus is devoted exclusively to the
transportation of children to and from a school session or a school function,
and the term does not include a van or bus used by a licensed child care center
or type A family child care home to transport children from the child care
center or type A family child care home to a school if the van or bus does not
have more than 15 children in the van or bus at any time.
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
with another and separate motor vehicle so that in operation a part of its own
weight or that of its load, or both, rests upon and is carried by another
vehicle.
   SHARED-USE PATH. A bikeway outside the traveled way and physically separated
from motorized vehicular traffic by an open space or barrier and either within
the highway right-of-way or within an independent alignment. A shared-use path
also may be used by pedestrians, including skaters, joggers, users of manual
and motorized wheelchairs, and other authorized motorized and non- motorized
users. A shared-use path does not include any trail that is intended to be used
primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar uses,
or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically been
reserved for non-motorized use.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for use on snow or
ice, and steered by skis, runners, or caterpillar treads.
(R.C. § 4519.01)
   STATE ROUTE. Every highway which is designated with an official state route
number and so marked.
   STOPPING (when required). A complete cessation of movement.
   STOPPING OR STANDING (when prohibited). Any halting of a vehicle, even
momentarily, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control device.
   STOP INTERSECTION. Any intersection at one or more entrances of which stop
signs are erected.
   STREET OR HIGHWAY; ARTERIAL STREET.
      (1)   STREET or HIGHWAY means the entire width between the boundary lines
of every way open to the use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of
vehicular travel.
      (2)   ARTERIAL STREET Any United States or state numbered route,
controlled access highway or other major radial or circumferential street or
highway designated by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions
as part of a major arterial system of streets or highways.
   THROUGH STREET OR HIGHWAY. Every street or highway as provided in §
71.06.
   THRUWAY. A through highway whose entire roadway is reserved for through
traffic and on which roadway parking is prohibited.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other devices,
either singly or together, while using for purposes of travel any street or
highway or private road open to public travel. (ORC 4511.01(TT))
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. A flagger, sign, signal, marking, or other device
used to regulate, warn or guide traffic, placed on, over, or adjacent to a
street, highway, private road open to public travel, pedestrian facility, or
shared-use path by authority of a public agency or official having
jurisdiction, or, in the case of a private road open to public travel, by
authority of the private owner or private official having jurisdiction.
(ORC 4511.01(QQ))
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any highway traffic signal by which traffic is
alternately  directed to stop and permitted to proceed.
(ORC 4511.01(RR))
   TRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
wholly on its own structure, and for being drawn by a motor vehicle, including
any vehicle when formed by or operated as a combination of a SEMITRAILER and a
vehicle of the dolly type, such as that commonly known as a TRAILER DOLLY, a
vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production
materials between a local place of storage or supply and the farm when drawn or
towed on a street or highway at a speed greater than 25 m.p.h. and a vehicle
designed and used  exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of more than ten miles or at a speed of more than 25
m.p.h.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers, designed and
used to carry property.
   TYPE A FAMILY CHILD CARE HOME. Has the same meaning as set forth in R.C. §
5104.01.
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street or
highway which is built up with structures devoted to business, industry or
dwelling houses situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of
1/4 of a mile or more, and the character of the territory is indicated by
official traffic control devices.
   VEHICLE. Every device, including a motorized bicycle and an electric
bicycle, in, upon, or by which any person or property may be transported or
drawn upon a highway, except that the term does not include any motorized
wheelchair, any electric personal assistive mobility device, any low-speed
micromobility device, any personal delivery device as defined in R.C. §
4511.513, any device that is moved by power collected from overhead electric
trolley wires or that is used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, or
any device, other than a bicycle, that is moved by human power.
   WASTE COLLECTION VEHICLE. A vehicle used in the collection of garbage,
refuse, trash, or recyclable materials.
(R.C. § 4511.01)
§ 70.02 ENFORCEMENT AND EDUCATION FUND.
   (A)   An Enforcement and Education Fund shall be, and hereby is,
established, and appropriate deposits as required by §
70.99(A)(3)(a) or R.C. § 4511.99(A)(1), shall be made therein.
   (B)   The monies in this fund shall be used only to pay those costs the city
incurs in enforcing §
72.45(A) or (C) of this code or R.C. § 4511.99, and informing the public of the
laws governing the operation of a motor vehicle while under the influence of
alcohol, the dangers of operating a motor vehicle while under the influence of
alcohol, and other information relating to the operation of a motor vehicle and
the consumption of alcoholic beverages.
(Res. 17-91, passed 5-28-91)
§ 70.03 MOTOR VEHICLE THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and directed to establish a
motor vehicle theft prevention program within the department which shall have
trained motor vehicle investigators and police officers participating in it.
   (B)   The Police Chief may establish a motor vehicle theft prevention
program which may include the issuance of official decals to identify motor
vehicles that are not normally operated between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00
a.m. Participation in the program shall be voluntary in nature and shall
involve the following:
      (1)   In the presence of a duly authorized police officer in any
municipality participating in such program, the registered owner of a motor
vehicle shall sign an informed consent statement indicating that the motor
vehicle registered to such owner is not normally operated between the hours of
1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. and releasing the city from liability if said vehicle
is stopped by police during those hours.
      (2)   (a)   Upon signing such informed consent statement, the registered
owner may be issued a decal approved by the police department and such decal
may be affixed to the owner's vehicle in a conspicuous place as prescribed by
the police department. The decal shall be issued and affixed only by a duly
authorized police officer.
         (b)   The police officer issuing the decal shall make a record of the
issuance of decals to the registered owner. Such records shall be maintained by
the police department and shall be available to the commissioner of motor
vehicles, to the superintendent of state police and to law enforcement
agencies.
         (c)   The display of such an official decal, as described in this
section on any motor vehicle being operated between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and
5:00 a.m., shall constitute probable cause upon which any police officer may
stop said vehicle for the purpose of investigating whether the vehicle is
stolen.
(Ord. 2825, passed 10-8-91)
ENFORCEMENT; IMPOUNDING, PENALTY
§ 70.05 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWFUL ORDER OF POLICE OFFICER; FLEEING.
   (A)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any police officer invested with authority to direct, control, or regulate
traffic.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle so as willfully to elude or
flee a police officer after receiving a visible or audible signal from a police
officer to bring his motor vehicle to a stop.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to comply with an
order or signal of a police officer. A violation of division (A) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. A violation of division (B) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree, except that a violation of
division (B) of this section is a felony of the fourth degree if the jury or
judge as trier of fact finds any one of the following by proof beyond a
reasonable doubt:
      (1)   In committing the offense, the offender was fleeing immediately
after the commission of a felony;
      (2)   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender was a proximate
cause of serious physical harm to persons or property;
      (3)   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender caused a
substantial risk of serious physical harm to persons or property;
   (D)   As used in this section,  POLICE OFFICER has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 4511.01.
   (E)   In addition to any other sanction imposed for a violation of
subsection (a) of this section or a misdemeanor violation of subsection (b) of
this section, the court shall impose a class five suspension from the range
specified in Ohio R.C. 4510.02(A)(5). If the offender previously has been found
guilty of an offense under this section, in addition to any other sanction
imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class one suspension as
described in division (A)(1) of that section. The court may grant limited
driving privileges to the offender on a suspension imposed for a misdemeanor
violation of this section as set forth in Ohio R.C. 4510.021. No judge shall
suspend the first three years of suspension under a class two suspension of an
offender's license, permit or privilege required by this division on any
portion of the suspension under a class one suspension of an offender's
license, permit, or privilege required by this subsection. (ORC 2921.331)
§ 70.06 TRAFFIC DIRECTION IN EMERGENCIES; OBEDIENCE TO SCHOOL CROSSING GUARD.
   (A)   Police officers shall direct or regulate traffic in accordance with
the provisions of this title, provided that, in the event of fire or other
emergency or to expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians, they are authorized
to direct traffic as conditions may require notwithstanding the provisions of
this title. Firemen, when at the scene of a fire, may direct or assist the
police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate vicinity. The direction
of traffic may be by word or audible signal, by gesture or visible signal, or
by any combination thereof. No person shall fail to comply with any lawful
order or direction of any police officer or fireman issued pursuant to this
section.
   (B)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any school crossing guard invested with authority to direct, control, or
regulate traffic in the vicinity of the school to which the guard may be
assigned.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.065 RESISTING AN ENFORCING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   No person shall resist, hinder, obstruct, or abuse any sheriff,
constable, or other official while such official is attempting to arrest
offenders under provisions of this traffic code. No person shall interfere with
any person charged under such sections with the enforcement of the law relative
to public highways.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4513.36)
§ 70.07 OFFICER MAY REMOVE IGNITION KEY.
   A law enforcement officer may remove the ignition key left in the ignition
switch of an unlocked and unattended motor vehicle parked on a street or
highway, or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular traffic or parking. The officer removing the key shall place
notification upon the vehicle detailing his name and badge number, the place
where the key may be reclaimed, and the procedure for reclaiming the key. The
key shall be returned to the owner of the motor vehicle upon presentation of
proof of ownership.
(R.C. § 4549.05)
§ 70.08 ROAD WORKERS, MOTOR VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT EXCEPTED.
   (A)   The provisions of this title do not apply to persons, teams, motor
vehicles, and other equipment while actually engaged in work upon the surface
of a street or highway within an area designated by traffic control devices,
but shall apply to persons and vehicles when traveling to or from such work.
   (B)   The driver of a highway maintenance vehicle owned by this state or any
political subdivision of this state, while the driver is engaged in the
performance of official duties upon a street or highway, provided the highway
maintenance vehicle is equipped with flashing lights and such other markings as
are required by law, and such lights are in operation when the driver and
vehicle are so engaged, shall be exempt from criminal prosecution for
violations of Sections
72.01 to
72.04, 72.06 to
72.08,
72.31,
 72.48,
73.12 and Ohio R.C. 4511.66 and 5577.01 to 5577.09.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not exempt a driver of a highway maintenance
vehicle from civil liability arising from a violation of Sections
72.01 to
72.04,
72.06 to
72.08,
72.31,
72.48,
 73.12 or Ohio R.C. 4511.66 or 5577.01 to 5577.09.
      (2)   This section does not exempt a driver of a vehicle who is not a
state employee and who is engaged in the transport of highway maintenance
equipment from criminal liability for a violation of Ohio R.C. 5577.01 to
5577.09.
   (D)   As used in this section, "engaged in the performance of official
duties" includes driving a highway maintenance vehicle to and from the
manufacturer or vehicle maintenance provider and transporting a highway
maintenance vehicle, equipment, or materials to and from a work location.
(ORC 4511.04)
§ 70.09 APPLICATION OF PERSONS RIDING, DRIVING ANIMALS UPON ROADWAY.
   Every person riding, driving or leading an animal upon a roadway shall be
subject to the provisions of this title applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except those provisions of sections which by their nature are inapplicable.
(R.C. § 4511.05)
§ 70.10 FREEWAY USE PROHIBITED BY PEDESTRIANS, BICYCLES AND ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, shall:
      (1)   As a pedestrian, occupy any space within the limits of the right-
of-way of a freeway, except: in a rest area; on a facility that is separated
from the roadway and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately
marked for pedestrian use; in the performance of public works or official
duties; as a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown of a
motor vehicle; or to obtain assistance;
      (2)   Occupy any space within the limits of the right-of-way of a
freeway, with: an animal-drawn vehicle; a ridden or led animal; herded animals;
a pushcart; a bicycle, except on a facility that is separated from the roadway
and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately marked for
bicycle use; an electric bicycle; a bicycle with motor attached; a motor-driven
cycle with a motor which produces not to exceed five brake horsepower; an
agricultural tractor; farm machinery; except in the performance of public works
or official duties.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.051) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11 APPLICATION TO DRIVERS OF GOVERNMENT VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this title applicable to the drivers of vehicles shall
apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or operated by the United States,
any state or any political subdivision thereof, including this municipality,
except as may be otherwise provided by law and subject to specific exceptions
as are set forth with reference to authorized emergency and public safety
vehicles.
§ 70.12 IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   Police officers are authorized to provide for the removal and
impounding of a vehicle under the following circumstances:
      (1)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any street, bridge or
causeway and is so illegally parked so as to constitute a hazard or obstruction
to the normal movement of traffic, or so as to unreasonably interfere with
street cleaning or snow removal operations.
      (2)   When any vehicle or abandoned junk motor vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4513.63 is left on private property for more than 48 consecutive hours
without the permission of the person having the right to the possession of the
property, or on a public street or other property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking, or upon or within the right-of-way of
any road or highway, for 48 consecutive hours or longer, without notification
to the police chief of the reasons for leaving the vehicle in such place. Prior
to removal of an ABANDONED JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE as defined in R.C. § 4513.63, it
shall be photographed by a law enforcement officer in the place where
abandoned.
      (3)   When any vehicle has been stolen or operated without the consent of
the owner.
      (4)   When any vehicle displays illegal license plates or fails to
display the current lawfully required license plates.
      (5)   When any vehicle has been used in or connected with the commission
of felony.
      (6)   When any vehicle has been damaged or wrecked so as to be inoperable
or violates equipment provisions of this traffic code whereby its continued
operation would constitute a condition hazardous to life, limb, or property.
      (7)   When any vehicle is left unattended due to the removal of an ill,
injured, or arrested operator.
      (8)   When any vehicle has been operated by any person who has failed to
stop in case of an accident or collision.
      (9)   When any vehicle has been operated by any person who is driving
without a lawful license or while his license has been suspended or revoked.
      (10)   When any vehicle is found for which 2 or more citation tags for
violations of this title have been issued and the owner or operator thereof has
failed to respond to the citation tags as lawfully required.
   (B)   The police department shall forthwith notify the registered vehicle
owner of the fact of the removal and impounding, reasons therefor, and the
place of storage. Any person desiring to redeem an impounded vehicle shall
appear at the police department to furnish satisfactory evidence of identity
and ownership or right to possession. Prior to issuance of a release form, the
claimant, owner, or operator shall either pay the amount due for any fines for
violations on account of which the vehicle was impounded or, as the court may
require, post a bond in an amount set by the court, to appear to answer to such
violations. The pound operator shall release each vehicle upon receipt of the
release form and payment of all towage and storage charges.
   (C)   No owner or operator shall remove an impounded vehicle from the place
of storage without complying with the above procedure. Possession of a vehicle
which has been impounded and unlawfully taken from the place of storage, by the
owner or operator, shall constitute prima facie evidence that it was so removed
by the owner or operator.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.13 LEAVING JUNK AND OTHER VEHICLES ON PRIVATE OR PUBLIC PROPERTY WITHOUT
PERMISSION OR NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Fees for abandoned junk motor vehicles shall be as set forth in
Section 37.16 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances
of the City of West Carrollton.
(Ord. 3436. Passed 12-22-09.)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall willfully leave an abandoned junk motor vehicle
as defined in R.C. § 4513.63 on private property for more than 72 hours without
the permission of the person having the right to the possession of the
property, or on a public street or other property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking, or upon or within the right-of- way of
any road or highway for 48 hours or longer without notification to the chief of
a law enforcement agency of the municipal corporation of the reason for leaving
the motor vehicle in such place.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, the fact that a motor vehicle has
been so left without permission or notification is prima facie evidence of
abandonment.
      (3)   Nothing contained in R.C. §§ 4513.60, 4513.61 and 4513.63 shall
invalidate or prevent the enactment of further provisions of municipal
ordinances regulating or prohibiting the abandonment of motor vehicles on
streets, highways, public property, or private property within the
municipality.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and
shall also be assessed any costs incurred by the municipality in disposing of
the abandoned junk motor vehicle that is the basis of the violation, less any
money accruing to the municipality from the disposal of the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.64)
TRAFFIC CONTROL
§ 70.20 DIVISION OF TRAFFIC ENGINEERING AND SAFETY CREATED.
   Pursuant to R.C. § 737.021 and 737.022, a division of traffic engineering
and safety is created, and the director of safety shall be the executive head
of the division.
§ 70.21 AUTHORITY AND CONSIDERATIONS FOR PLACEMENT OF DEVICES.
   The director of safety is authorized to place and maintain traffic control
devices upon any street or highway under his jurisdiction as are necessary to
effectuate the provisions of this title, or to regulate, warn, or guide
traffic, and any other traffic control devices as he shall deem necessary for
the proper control of traffic. The director of safety shall determine the
location, timing, and coordination of the traffic control devices upon the
basis of an applicable engineering or traffic investigation and shall consider
the following:
   (A)   The maximum safety and protection of vehicular and pedestrian traffic
from physical injury or property damage.
   (B)   The existing and potential traffic movement, volume, and conditions.
   (C)   The location and frequency of accidents, including studies of remedial
measures.
   (D)   The recommendations of the police and fire chiefs.
   (E)   The acceleration of transportation of persons and property by vehicles
so as to expedite travel and promote public safety.
   (F)   The convenience and welfare of the general public in parking,
standing, loading, and unloading, and the
use of the streets as affecting business concerns and places of assembly.
   (G)   Economy in the expenditure of money.
§ 70.22 CONFORMITY WITH STATE MANUAL.
   All traffic control devices placed pursuant to the provisions of this title
shall conform to the Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets
and Highways, as set forth in R.C. § 4511.09.
§ 70.23 POWERS OF SAFETY DIRECTOR.
   The director of safety is empowered to:
   (A)   Designate any street or highway as a through street or highway and
require that all vehicles stop or yield the right-of-way as may be required
before entering the same.
   (B)   Designate any intersection as a stop intersection and require all
vehicles to stop at one or more entrances to the intersection.
   (C)   Designate any intersection as a yield intersection and require all
vehicles to yield the right-of-way as required.
   (D)   Designate any street as a one-way street and require that all vehicles
thereon be moved in one specific direction.
   (E)   Designate and mark lanes to be used by traffic moving in a particular
direction regardless of the center line of the roadway.
   (F)   Erect signs directing slow-moving traffic to use a designated lane or
allocating specified lanes to traffic moving in the same direction.
   (G)   Designate those portions of any street, where overtaking and passing
other traffic or driving to the left of the center or center line of the
roadway would be especially hazardous, by appropriate signs or markings on the
street to indicate the beginning and end of the zones. The zones may be marked
by an auxiliary yellow line placed parallel and to the right of the normal
center line or offset marked lane line.
   (H)   Place markers, buttons, or signs within or adjacent to intersections
and require that a specific course of direction be traveled by vehicles
proceeding in lanes by either permitting, prohibiting, or requiring turns at
the intersections.
   (I)   Install traffic control devices, signals, and signs at any location to
regulate traffic.
   (J)   Establish safety zones, crosswalks, zones of quiet, and play streets.
   (K)   Close any street or portion thereof to vehicular traffic which is in
the process of construction, reconstruction, or repair.
   (L)   Determine the location of any necessary bus stops and taxicab stands.
   (M)   Determine the location and limiting hours of truck loading zones.
   (N)   Designate dangerous railroad crossings and erect stop signs thereat.
   (O)   Erect “No U Turn” signs at any location to prohibit a vehicle from
being turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction.
   (P)   Regulate or prohibit the stopping, standing, and parking of vehicles
on streets, alleys, or public property by erecting signs plainly indicating the
prohibitions, restrictions, or limitations.
   (Q)   Designate individual parking spaces by markings, which may either by
parallel or at a prescribed angle to the curb or edge of the roadway.
   (R)   Designate local streets as truck routes permitting heavy vehicles to
travel thereon.
   (S)   Control parking meters as provided in §
73.20.
   (T)   Determine which intersections within the city, if any, require the
prohibiting of a right turn against the steady red signal and to prohibit turns
at those intersections providing that the prohibitions shall only be effective
when signs giving notice thereof are posted at the intersection.
§ 70.24 POSTING OF SIGNS AND SIGNALS REQUIRED.
   No provision of this chapter shall be effective until signs, signals,
markings, or other devices giving notice of
the local traffic regulations are posted upon or at the entrance to the street
or part thereof affected, as may be most appropriate, so that in a proper
position they are sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
§ 70.25 DIRECTOR'S POWERS NOT LIMITED.
   The powers of the director of safety shall not be limited by the specific
enumeration of subjects contained in this chapter.
§ 70.26 RECORDS OF DIRECTOR.
   The director of safety shall keep a record of all rules, regulations, and
proceedings promulgated in connection with this chapter.
§ 70.27 RESERVATION OF POWER TO COUNCIL.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, council may override any
decision of the director of safety and may assume any of the powers delegated
to the director, by a resolution adopted by a vote of a majority of the members
duly elected thereto. Upon the adoption of any resolution, the same may be
changed only by an amending or repealing resolution adopted by council.
§ 70.28 VIOLATIONS SUBJECT TO MISDEMEANOR CLASSIFICATION.
   Except as otherwise provided, any person violating the rules and regulations
promulgated in connection with this title is guilty of a misdemeanor which
shall be classified as provided in §
70.99.
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code for which no
penalty otherwise is provided in the section violated is guilty of one of the
following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section, a minor misdemeanor;
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
      (3)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.99)
   (B)   Violations committed while distracted.
      (1)   As used in this section and each section referenced in division (B)
(2) of this section, all of the following apply:
         (a)   “Distracted” means doing either of the following while operating
a vehicle:
            1.   Using an electronic wireless communications device, as defined
in R.C. § 4511.204, in violation of that section.
            2.   Engaging in any activity that is not necessary to the
operation of a vehicle and impairs, or reasonably would be expected to impair,
the ability of the operator to drive the vehicle safely.
         (b)   “Distracted” does not include operating a motor vehicle while
wearing an earphone or earplug over or in both ears at the same time. A person
who so wears earphones or earplugs may be charged with a violation of R.C. §
4511.84, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (c)   “Distracted” does not include conducting any activity while
operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or on behalf of a utility,
provided
that the driver of the vehicle is acting in response to an emergency, power
outage, or a circumstance affecting the health or safety of individuals. As
used in this division (B)(1)(c):
            UTILITY means an entity specified in R.C. § 4905.03(A), (C), (D),
(E), or (G).
            UTILITY SERVICE VEHICLE means a vehicle owned or operated by a
utility.
      (2)   If an offender violates R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12,
4511.121, 4511.132, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25,
4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33,
4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41,
4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451, 4511.46, 4511.47,
4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.64,
4511.71, 4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, or 4511.73, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
violation, the offender is subject to the applicable penalty for the violation
and, notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, is subject to an additional fine of not
more than $100 as follows:
         (a)   1.   Subject to Traffic Rule 13, if a law enforcement officer
issues an offender a ticket, citation, or summons for a violation of any of the
aforementioned sections of the Ohio Revised Code, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that indicates that the offender was distracted
while committing the violation and that the distracting activity was a
contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the offender may enter
a written plea of guilty and waive the offender’s right to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial provided that the offender pays the total
amount of the fine established for the violation and pays the additional fine
of $100.
            2.   In lieu of payment of the additional fine of $100, the
offender instead may elect to attend a distracted driving safety course, the
duration and contents of which shall be established by the Ohio Director of
Public Safety. If the offender attends and successfully completes the course,
the offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of $100, so long as the offender submits to the court both the
offender’s payment in full and such written evidence within 90 days of the
underlying violation that resulted in the imposition of the additional fine
under division (B) of this section.
         (b)   1.   If the offender appears in person to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial and the offender pleads guilty to or is
convicted of the violation, the court, in addition to all other penalties
provided by law, may impose the applicable penalty for the violation and may
impose the additional fine of not more than $100.
            2.   If the court imposes upon the offender the applicable penalty
for the violation and an additional fine of not more than $100, the court shall
inform the offender that, in lieu of payment of the additional fine of not more
than $100, the offender instead may elect to attend the distracted driving
safety course described in division (B)(2)(a) of this section. If the offender
elects the course option and attends and successfully completes the course, the
offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of not more than $100, so long as the offender submits to the
court the offender’s payment and such written evidence within 90 days of the
underlying violation that resulted in the imposition of the additional fine
under division (B) of this section.
      (3)    If a law enforcement officer issues an offender a ticket,
citation, or summons for a violation of any of the sections of the Revised Code
listed in division (B)(2) of this section that indicates that the offender was
distracted while committing the violation and that the distracting activity was
a contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the officer shall do
both of the following:
         (a)   Report the issuance of the ticket, citation, or summons to the
officer’s law enforcement agency;
         (b)   Ensure that such report indicates the offender’s race.
(R.C. § 4511.991)
   (C)   Whoever is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor shall be sentenced in accordance with §
130.99.
Statutory reference:
   Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
CHAPTER 71: STREETS AND TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
Section
Street Obstructions and Special Uses
71.01   Placing injurious material or obstruction in street
71.02   Street meetings and parades
Traffic Control Devices
71.05   Obedience to traffic control devices
71.06   Through streets; stop and yield right-of-way signs
71.07   Traffic signal indications
71.08   Lane-use control signal indications
71.09   Special pedestrian control signals
71.10   Flashing traffic signals (Repealed)
71.11   Unauthorized signs and signals, hiding from view, advertising
71.12   Alteration, injury, removal of traffic control devices
71.13   Signals not clearly assigning the right-of-way
71.14   Portable signal preemption devices prohibited
STREET OBSTRUCTIONS AND SPECIAL USES
§ 71.01 PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL OR OBSTRUCTION IN STREET.
   (A)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a street,
highway, or alley or public right-of-way, any tacks, bottles, wire, glass,
nails, or other articles which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or
animal traveling along or upon the street, highway, alley, or public right-of-
way, except such substances that may be placed upon the street, highway, alley,
or public right-of-way by proper authority for the repair or construction
thereof.
   (B)   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
street, highway, alley, or public right-of-way any destructive or injurious
material shall immediately remove the same.
   (C)   Any person authorized to remove a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a
street, highway, alley, or public right-of-way, shall remove any glass or other
injurious substance dropped upon the street from such vehicle.
   (D)   No person shall place any obstruction in or upon a street, highway,
alley, or public right-of-way, without proper authority.
   (E)   No person, with intent to cause physical harm to a person or vehicle,
shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a highway, lane, road, street,
or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails, or other articles which may
damage or injure any person, vehicle, streetcar, trackless trolley, or animal
traveling along or upon such highway, except such substances that may be placed
upon the roadway by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of divisions (A), (B), (C), or
(D) of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree for a
first offense, and shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree for any
subsequent offense. In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed,
the court shall require any person convicted of this section to remove, or to
pay the cost of removing, any injurious material deposited on such street,
highway, alley, or public right-of-way.
(R.C. § 4511.74) (Ord. 2477, passed 11-27-84)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4511.99(J)) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 STREET MEETINGS AND PARADES.
   (A)   No person shall hold any public meeting in any street, alley, or other
public place in the city for any lecturing purpose, any religious purpose, or
for any other purpose not named herein whereby a number of people are or are
likely to be gathered together so as to interfere with the free and
uninterrupted use of the street, alley, or other public place, without first
obtaining a permit to do so from the director of safety.
   (B)   No person shall use the city streets for the purpose of staging a
street parade for any purpose without first obtaining a permit to do so from
the director of safety.
   (C)   Any person desiring a permit either for a public street meeting or for
a street parade shall apply to the director of safety for a permit as required.
The application shall be in writing and shall state the nature of the object
for which the permit is desired, the location of the meeting or the route of
the parade, the dates and the hours when it is desired to hold the meeting or
parade, and the purpose thereof. If in the opinion of the director of safety
the public meeting or street parade will not unnecessarily interfere with
traffic upon the public streets and will not be detrimental to the public
health, morals, welfare or safety, the director shall issue a permit in writing
to an applicant granting permission for the holding of the public meeting or
street parade as the case may be, according to the terms of the application or
with modifications as to time, place, and purpose as may seem necessary to the
director in order to conserve the public morals, health, welfare, or safety, or
to facilitate the movement of traffic.
   (D)   The director may, in his discretion, at any time revoke any permit
issued hereunder upon satisfactory evidence that the provisions of this section
are about to be or have been violated.
Penalty, see §
70.99
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
§ 71.05 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   No pedestrian or driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
instructions of any traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code, unless at the time otherwise directed by a
police officer.
      (2)   No provision of this traffic code for which signs are required
shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular
section of this traffic code does not state that signs are required, that
section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
(R.C. § 4511.12(A))
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, any operator
of a commercial motor vehicle, upon approaching a scale location established
for the purpose of determining the weight of the vehicle and its load, shall
comply with any traffic control device or the order of a peace officer
directing the vehicle to proceed to be weighed or otherwise inspected.
      (2)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle, upon bypassing a scale
location in accordance with division (C) of this section, shall comply with an
order of a peace officer to stop the vehicle to verify the use and operation of
an electronic clearance device.
   (C)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle that is equipped with an
electronic clearance device authorized by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4549.081 may bypass a scale location, regardless of
the instruction of a traffic control device to enter the scale facility, if
either of the following apply:
      (1)   The in-cab transponder displays a green light or other affirmative
visual signal and also sounds an affirmative audible signal;
      (2)   Any other criterion established by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol is met.
   (D)   Any peace officer may order the operator of a commercial motor vehicle
that bypasses a scale location to stop the vehicle to verify the use and
operation of an electronic clearance device.
   (E)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE means any
combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating or an actual gross
vehicle weight of more than 10,000 pounds if the vehicle is used in interstate
or intrastate commerce to transport property and also means any vehicle that is
transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is required pursuant to
49 C.F.R. parts 100 through 180.
(R.C. § 4511.121(A) - (C), (E))
   (F)   No person shall use an electronic clearance device if the device or
its use is not in compliance with rules of the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol.
(R.C. § 4549.081(B))
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. If
the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting activity
is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the offender is
subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.12(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) of this
section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender commits the offense while
distracted and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the
commission of the offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine
established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.121(D))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.081(C))
Statutory reference:
   Placing traffic-control devices on state highways, permission required, see
R.C. § 4511.10
   Traffic-control devices to conform to the state manual and specifications,
see R.C. § 4511.11
   Uniform system of traffic-control devices, see R.C. § 4511.09
§ 71.06 THROUGH STREETS; STOP AND YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY SIGNS.
   (A)   (1)   All state routes are hereby designated as through highways,
provided that stop signs, yield signs, or traffic control signals shall be
erected at all intersections with such through highways by the department of
transportation as to highways under its jurisdiction and by local authorities
as to highways under their jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this
section. Where two or more state routes that are through highways intersect and
no traffic-control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall be
erected at one or more entrances thereto by the Department, except as otherwise
provided in this section.
      (2)   Whenever the Director of Transportation determines on the basis of
an engineering and traffic investigation that stop signs are necessary to stop
traffic on a through highway for safe and efficient operation, nothing in this
section shall be construed to prevent such installations. When circumstances
warrant, the Director also may omit stop signs on roadways intersecting through
highways under his jurisdiction. Before the Director either installs or removes
a stop sign under this division, he shall give notice, in writing, of that
proposed action to the City at least 30 days before installing or removing the
stop sign.
   (B)   Other streets or highways, or portions thereof, are hereby designated
through highways if they are within the city, if they have a continuous length
of more than one mile between the limits of the street or highway or portion
thereof, and if they have stop or yield signs or traffic control signals at the
entrances of the majority of intersecting streets or highways. For purposes of
this section, the limits of the street or highway or portion thereof shall be
the city corporation line, the physical terminus of the street or highway, or
any point on the street or highway at which vehicular traffic thereon is
required by regulatory signs to stop or yield to traffic on the intersecting
street. However, in residence districts the city may by ordinance designate
said street or highway or portion thereof, not to be a through highway and
thereafter the affected resident district shall be indicated by official
traffic-control devices. Where two or more through highways designated under
this division intersect and no traffic control signal is in operation, stop
signs or yield signs shall be erected at one or more entrances thereto by the
city with reference to highways under their jurisdiction, except as otherwise
provided in this section, or R.C. § 4511.65.
   (C)   The city with reference to highways under their jurisdiction need not
erect stop signs at intersections they find to be so constructed as to permit
traffic to safely enter a through highway without coming to a stop. Signs shall
be erected at such intersections indicating that the operator of a vehicle
shall yield the right-of-way to or merge with all traffic proceeding on the
through highway.
   (D)   The city with reference to highways under their jurisdiction may
designate additional through highways and shall erect stop signs, yield signs,
or traffic control signals at all streets and highways intersecting the through
highways, or may designate any intersection as a stop or yield intersection,
and shall erect like signs at one or more entrances to the intersection.
(See R.C. § 4511.65) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.07 TRAFFIC SIGNAL INDICATIONS.
   Highway traffic signal indications for vehicles, and pedestrians shall have
the following meanings:
   (A)   Steady Green Signal Indication:
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal indication
is permitted to proceed straight through or turn right or left, or make a u-
turn movement except as such movement is modified by a lane-use sign, turn
prohibition sign, lane marking, roadway design, separate turn signal
indication, or other traffic control device. Such vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the
right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
movement to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching
from the opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the
intersection.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal indication, displayed
alone or in combination with another signal indication, is permitted to
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow, or such other movement as is permitted by other indications displayed at
the same time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left
or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the
following:
         (a)   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk.
         (b)   Other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   (a)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication,
as provided in Section
71.09, pedestrians facing a circular green signal indication are permitted to
proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk.
The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the
intersection or so close as to create an immediate hazard at the time that the
green signal indication is first displayed.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing a green arrow signal indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or other traffic control
device, shall not cross the roadway.
   (B)   Steady Yellow Signal Indication:
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow signal indication
is thereby warned that the related green movement or the related flashing arrow
movement is being terminated or that a steady red signal indication will be
exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter the
intersection. The provisions governing vehicular operation under the movement
being terminated shall continue to apply while the steady circular yellow
signal indication is displayed.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow arrow signal indication is
thereby warned that the related green arrow movement or the related flashing
arrow movement is being terminated. The provisions governing vehicular
operation under the movement being terminated shall continue to apply while the
steady yellow arrow signal indication is displayed.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal
indication, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in Section
71.09 or other traffic control device, shall not start to cross the roadway.
   (C)   Steady Red Signal Indication:
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal
indication, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted
by another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, traffic shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, before then before
entering the intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication
to proceed is displayed except as provided in subsections (C)(1), (2) and (3)
of this section.
         (b)   Except when a traffic control device is in place prohibiting a
turn on red or a steady red arrow signal indication is displayed, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal indication is permitted, after
stopping, to enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-
way street into a one-way street. The right to proceed with the turn shall be
subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a stop
sign.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow signal indication
shall not enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by the arrow
and, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted by
another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before entering the
intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication or other
traffic control device permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is
displayed.
         (b)   When a traffic control device is in place permitting a turn on a
steady red arrow signal indication, vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow
indication is permitted, after stopping, to enter the intersection to turn
right or to turn left from a one-way street into a one-way street. The right to
proceed with the turn shall be limited to the direction indicated by the arrow,
and shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop
at a stop sign.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in Section
71.09 or other traffic control device, pedestrians facing a steady circular red
or steady red arrow signal indication shall not enter the roadway.
      (4)   Local authorities by ordinance, or the Director of Transportation
on State highways, may prohibit a right or a left turn against a steady red
signal at any intersection, which shall be effective when signs giving notice
thereof are posted at the intersection.
   (D)   Flashing Green Signal Indication. A flashing green signal indication
has no meaning and shall not be used.
   (E)   Flashing Yellow Signal Indication:
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing circular yellow signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter
the intersection to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-
turn movement except as such movement is modified by lane-use signs, turn
prohibition signs, lane markings, roadway design, separate turn signal
indications, or other traffic control devices. Such vehicular traffic,
including vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall
yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing yellow arrow signal indication, displayed alone or in combination
with another signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or other such
movement as is permitted by other signal indications displayed at the same
time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left or
making a u-turn, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing any flashing yellow signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing yellow signal indication is first displayed.
      (4)   When a flashing circular yellow signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory or warning requirements of the other traffic
control device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently
applicable.
   (F)   Flashing Red Signal Indication:
      (1)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing circular red signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line; but if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. The right to proceed
shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a
stop sign.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing any flashing red signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing red signal indication is first displayed.
      (3)   When a flashing circular red signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory requirements of the other traffic control
device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently applicable.
Use of this signal indication shall be limited to supplementing stop, do not
enter, or wrong way signs, and to applications where compliance with the
supplemented traffic control device requires a stop at a designated point.
   (G)   General Application: In the event an official traffic-control signal
is erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions
of this section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by
their nature can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign
or marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the
absence of any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
   (H)   Exception. This section does not apply at railroad grade crossings.
Conduct of drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be
governed by Ohio R.C. 4511.61 and 4511.62. (ORC 4511.13)
§ 71.08 LANE-USE CONTROL SIGNAL INDICATIONS.
   (A)   The meanings of lane-use control signal indications are as follows:
      (1)   A steady downward green arrow: A road user is permitted to drive in
the lane over which the arrow signal indication is located.
      (2)   A steady yellow "X": A road user is to prepare to vacate the lane
over which the signal indication is located because a lane control change is
being made to a steady red "X" signal indication.
      (3)   A steady white two-way left-turn arrow: A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, but not
for through travel, with the understanding that common use of the lane by
oncoming road users for left turns also is permitted.
      (4)   A steady white one-way left-turn arrow: A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, without
opposing turns in the same lane, but not for through travel.
      (5)   A steady red "X": A road user is not permitted to use the lane over
which the signal indication is located and that this signal indication shall
modify accordingly the meaning of other traffic controls present. (ORC
4511.131)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.99)
§ 71.09 SPECIAL PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS.
   (A)   Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words
"walk" or "don't walk", or the symbol of a walking person or an upraised palm
are in place, such signals shall indicate the following instructions:
      (1)   A steady walking person signal indication, which symbolizes "walk",
means that a pedestrian facing the signal indication is permitted to start to
cross the roadway in the direction of the signal indication, possibly in
conflict with turning vehicles. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the walking person
signal indication is first shown.
      (2)   A flashing upraised hand signal indication, which symbolizes "don't
walk", means that a pedestrian shall not start to cross the roadway in the
direction of the signal indication, but that any pedestrian who has already
started to cross on a steady walking person signal indication shall proceed to
the far side of the traveled way of the street or highway, unless otherwise
directed by a traffic control device to proceed only to the median of a divided
highway or only to some other island or pedestrian refuge area.
      (3)   A steady upraised hand signal indication means that a pedestrian
shall not enter the roadway in the direction of the signal indication.
      (4)   Nothing int his section shall be construed to invalidate the
continued use of pedestrian control signals utilizing the word "wait" if those
signals were installed prior to March 28, 1985.
      (5)   A flashing walking person signal indication has no meaning and
shall not be used. (ORC 4511.14)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.99)
§ 71.10 FLASHING TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   (Former Ohio R.C. 4511.15 from which Section
 71.10 was derived was repealed by House Bill 349, effective April 20, 2012.)
§ 71.11 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS, HIDING FROM VIEW, ADVERTISING.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any
street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be,
is an imitation of or resembles a traffic control device or railroad sign or
signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic or hides from view
or interferes with the effectiveness of any traffic control device or any
railroad sign or signal, and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any
public authority permit upon any street any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising. This section does not prohibit either the
erection upon private property adjacent to streets of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for traffic
control devices or the erection upon private property of traffic control
devices by the owner of real property in accordance with R.C. §§ 4511.211 and
4511.432.
   (B)   Every prohibited sign, signal, marking, or device is a public
nuisance, and the police department is authorized to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
(R.C. § 4511.16) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.12 ALTERATION, INJURY, REMOVAL OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   No person, without lawful authority shall do any of the following:
   (A)   Knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly
tamper with any traffic-control device, any railroad sign or signal, or any
inscription, shield, or insignia on the device, sign, or signal, or any part of
the device, sign, or signal;
   (B)   Knowingly drive upon or over any freshly applied pavement marking
material on the surface of a roadway while the marking material is in an
undried condition, and is marked by flags, markers, signs, or other devices
intended to protect it.
   (C)   Knowingly move, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with a
manhole cover.
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever
violates subsection (A) or (C) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree. If a violation of subsection (A) or (C) of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If a violation of subsection (A) or (C) of
this section causes serious physical harm to property that is owned, leased, or
controlled by a state or local authority, the offender is guilty of a felony
and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates
subsection (B) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
subsection (B) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
subsection (B) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.17) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.13 SIGNALS NOT CLEARLY ASSIGNING THE RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle who approaches an intersection where traffic
is controlled by traffic control signals shall do all of the following if the
signal facing the driver exhibits no colored lights or colored lighted arrows,
exhibits a combination of such lights or arrows that fails to clearly indicate
the assignment of right-of-way, or, if the vehicle is a bicycle or an electric
bicycle, the signals are otherwise malfunctioning due to the failure of a
vehicle detector to detect the presence of the bicycle or electric bicycle:
      (1)   Stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if none, stop
before entering the intersection;
      (2)   Yield the right-of-way to all vehicles in the intersection or
approaching on an intersecting road, if the vehicles will constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways;
      (3)   Exercise ordinary care while proceeding through the intersection.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.132) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.14 PORTABLE SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall possess a portable signal preemption device.
      (2)   No person shall use a portable signal preemption device to affect
the operation of a traffic control signal.
   (B)   Subsection (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the
following persons and subsection (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any
of the following persons when responding to an emergency call:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in Ohio R.C. 109.71(A)(11), (12), (14)
or (19);
      (2)   A State highway patrol trooper;
      (3)   A person while occupying a public safety vehicle as defined in Ohio
R.C. 4511.01(E)(1), (3) or (4).
   (C)   Whoever violates subsection (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates subsection (A)(2) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, “portable signal preemption device” means a
device that, if activated by a person, is capable of changing a traffic control
signal to green out of sequence.
(ORC 4511.031)
CHAPTER 72: VEHICLES
Section
Operation Generally
72.01   Driving upon right side of roadway; exceptions
72.02   Passing to right when proceeding in opposite directions
72.03   Overtaking, passing to left; driver's duties
72.04   Overtaking and passing upon right
72.05   Overtaking, passing to left of center
72.06   Additional restrictions on driving upon left side of roadway
72.07   Hazardous or no passing zones
72.08   Driving in marked lanes or continuous lines of traffic
72.09   Following too closely
72.10   Turning at intersections
72.11   Turning into private driveway, alley, or building
72.12   “U” turns restricted
72.13   Starting and backing vehicles
72.14   Signals before changing course, turning, or stopping
72.15   Hand and arm signals
72.16   Right-of-way at intersections
72.17   Right-of-way when turning left
72.18   Operation of vehicle at yield signs
72.19   Operation of vehicle at stop signs
72.20   Emergency or public safety vehicles at stop signals or signs
72.21   Right-of-way of public safety or coroner’s vehicle
72.211   Report of vehicle failing to yield right of way to public safety
vehicle.
72.22   Driving onto roadway from place other than roadway; duty to yield
72.23   Driving onto roadway from place other than roadway; stopping at
sidewalk
72.24   Right-of-way of funeral procession
72.25   Driving across grade crossing
72.26   Stopping at grade crossing
72.27   Driver's view and control to be unobstructed by load or persons
72.28   Driving upon street posted as closed for repair
72.29   Following and parking near emergency or safety vehicles
72.291   Approaching a stationary public safety, emergency or road service and
certain other vehicles
72.30   Driving over fire hose
72.31   Driving through safety zone
72.32   One-way streets and rotary traffic islands
72.33   Driving upon divided roadways
72.34   Entering and exiting controlled access highway
72.35   Obstructing intersection, crosswalk, or grade crossing
72.36   Failure to control; weaving course
72.37   Squealing tires, “peeling”, cracking exhaust noises
72.38   Driving upon sidewalks, street lawns, or curbs
72.39   Stopping for school bus; discharging children
72.391   Suspension of driving privileges
72.392   Report of alleged violations to Police Department
72.40   Occupying travel trailer, fifth wheel vehicle, or manufactured or
mobile home while in motion
72.41   Restricting use of motor vehicles on city property and city parks
72.42   Transporting child not in child restraint system prohibited
72.43   Failure to use or illegal use of required ignition interlock device
72.44   Vehicular operation on street closed due to rise in water level.
Intoxication; Reckless Operation; Speed
72.45   Driving or physical control while under the influence
72.46   Reckless operation on streets, public or private property
72.47   Maximum speed limits; assured clear distance ahead
72.48   Slow speed; posted minimum speeds
72.49   Speed limitations over bridges
72.50   Speed exceptions for emergency or safety vehicles
72.51   Street racing prohibited
72.52   Texting while driving prohibited
Licensing; Accidents
72.55   Driver’s license or commercial driver’s license required
72.56   Permitting operation without valid license; one license permitted
72.561   Ohio driver's license required for in state residents.
72.57   Driving with temporary instruction permit; curfew
72.571   Driving with probationary license; curfew
72.572   Electronic wireless communication device prohibited
72.58   Certain acts prohibited
72.59   Wrongful entrustment of a motor vehicle
72.60   Display of license
72.61   Driving under suspension or license restriction
72.611   Driving under OVI suspension
72.612   Driving under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation
72.613   Driving without complying with license reinstatement requirements
72.614   Driving under license forfeiture or child support suspension.
72.62   Operation or sale without certificate of title
72.63   Display of license plates
72.64   Expired or unlawful plates
72.65   Use of illegal license plates; transfer of registration
72.651   Registration within thirty days of residency.
72.66   Stopping after accident upon streets; collision with unattended vehicle
72.67   Stopping after accident upon property other than street
72.68   Vehicle accident resulting in damage to realty
Safety and Equipment
72.70   Driving unsafe vehicles; vehicle bumpers and height
72.71   Lighted lights; measurement of distances and heights
72.72   Headlights on motor vehicles and motorcycles
72.73   Tail light; illumination of rear license plate
72.74   Rear red reflectors
72.75   Safety lighting on commercial vehicles
72.76   Obscured lights on vehicles in combination
72.77   Red light or red flag on extended loads
72.78   Lights on parked or stopped vehicles
72.79   Lights, emblems, and reflectors on slow-moving vehicles, farm
machinery, agricultural tractors, and animal-drawn vehicles
72.80   Spotlight and auxiliary lights
72.81   Cowl, fender, and backup lights
72.82   Display of lighted lights
72.83   Use of headlight beams
72.84   Lights of less intensity on slow-moving vehicles
72.85   Number of lights; limitations on flashing, oscillating, or rotating
lights
72.86   Focus and aim of headlights
72.87   Motor vehicle and motorcycle brakes
72.88   Horn, siren, and theft alarm signal
72.89   Muffler; muffler cutout; excessive smoke, gas, or noise
72.90   Rear-view mirror; clear view to front, both sides, and rear
72.91   Sign or poster upon windshield; windshield wiper
72.92   Limited load extension on left side of passenger vehicle
72.93   Motor vehicle stop lights
72.94   Air cleaner required
72.941   Occupant restraining device for school bus operator
72.942   Drivers and passengers required to wear seat belts
72.943   Use of earphones while operating motor vehicle prohibited; exceptions
72.944   Directional signals required
72.945   Use of sunscreening, nontransparent and reflectorized materials
Commercial and Heavy Vehicles
72.95   Oversize or overweight vehicle operation on state routes; state permit
72.96   Truck routes (use of local streets, etc.)
72.97   Maximum width, height, and length
72.98   Route and load information
72.99   Wheel protectors
72.100   Vehicles transporting explosives
72.101   Towing requirements
72.102   Loads dropping or leaking; removal required; tracking mud
72.103   Shifting loads; loose loads
72.104   Vehicles with spikes, lugs, and chains
72.105   Weighing vehicles; removal of excess load
72.106   Warning devices required; display when disabled
72.107   Jake-braking prohibited
Drivers of Commercial Cars or Tractors
72.110   Definitions
72.111   Driving or permitting driving while fatigued or ill prohibited
All Purpose Vehicles and Snowmobiles
72.120   Operation by person under sixteen years of age
Civil penalties for automated red light and speeding system violations
72.130   Automated red light and speeding system/civil violation - general.
72.131   Definitions.
72.132   Offense.
72.133   Penalty; administrative appeal.
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 72.01 DRIVING UPON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, or when making a left turn under the rules governing such movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   When driving upon a roadway divided into three or more marked lanes
for traffic under the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   When driving upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for
one-way traffic;
      (5)   When otherwise directed by a police officer or traffic-control
device.
   (B)   (1)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the
prevailing and lawful speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall be driven in the right-hand lane then available
for traffic, and far enough to the right to allow passing by faster vehicles if
such passing is safe and reasonable, except under any of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
         (b)   When preparing for a left turn;
         (c)   When the driver must necessarily drive in a lane other than the
right-hand lane to continue on the driver’s intended route.
      (2)   Nothing in division (B)(1) of this section requires a driver of a
slower vehicle to compromise the driver’s safety to allow overtaking by a
faster vehicle.
   (C)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the center line of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left of the center of
the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the lanes, or
except as permitted under division (A)(2) of this section. This division shall
not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the center line in making a
left turn into or from an alley, private road, or driveway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.25) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02 PASSING TO RIGHT WHEN PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   Operators of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass
each other to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one
line of traffic in each direction, each operator shall give to the other one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway or as nearly one-half as is
reasonably possible.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.26) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03 OVERTAKING, PASSING TO LEFT; DRIVER'S DUTIES.
   (A)   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction:
      (1)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall, except as provided in division (A)(3) of this
section, signal to the vehicle to be overtaken, shall pass to the left thereof
at a safe distance, and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway
until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle. When a motor vehicle overtakes and
passes a bicycle or electric bicycle, three feet or greater is considered a
safe passing distance.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
operator of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle at the latter’s audible signal, and the operator shall not
increase the speed of the operator’s vehicle until completely passed by the
overtaking vehicle.
      (3)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction on a divided highway as defined in R.C. §
4511.35, a limited access highway as defined in R.C. § 5511.02, or a highway
with four or more traffic lanes is not required to signal audibly to the
vehicle being overtaken and passed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.27) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04 OVERTAKING AND PASSING UPON RIGHT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass on the right of another
vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
or
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle only
under conditions permitting the movement in safety. The movement shall not be
made by driving off the roadway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.28) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05 OVERTAKING, PASSING TO LEFT OF CENTER.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing traffic proceeding in the same direction, unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic approaching from the
opposite direction or any traffic overtaken. In every event, the overtaking
vehicle must return to an authorized lane of travel as soon as practicable, and
in the event the passing movement involves the use of a lane authorized for the
traffic approaching from the opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet
of any approaching vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.29) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06 ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS ON DRIVING UPON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven upon the left side of the roadway under the
following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway, where the operator’s view is obstructed within such a distance as to
create a hazard in the event traffic might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct, or tunnel; or
      (3)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing.
   (B)   This section does not apply to vehicles upon a one-way roadway, upon a
roadway where traffic is lawfully directed to be driven to the left side, or
under the conditions described in R.C. § 4511.25(A)(2) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.30) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.07 HAZARDOUS OR NO PASSING ZONES.
   (A)   The Department of Transportation may determine those portions of any
state highway where overtaking and passing other traffic or driving to the left
of the center or center line of the roadway would be especially hazardous, and
may, by appropriate signs or markings on the highway, indicate the beginning
and end of such zones. When signs or markings are in place and clearly visible,
every operator of a vehicle shall obey the directions of the signs or markings,
notwithstanding the distances set out in R.C. § 4511.30.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply when all of the following
apply:
      (1)   The slower vehicle is proceeding at less than half the speed of the
speed limit applicable to that location.
      (2)   The faster vehicle is capable of overtaking and passing the slower
vehicle without exceeding the speed limit.
      (3)   There is sufficient clear sight distance to the left of the center
or center line of the roadway to meet the overtaking and passing provisions of
R.C. § 4511.29, considering the speed of the slower vehicle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.31)
§ 72.08 DRIVING IN MARKED LANES OR CONTINUOUS LINES OF TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic, or wherever within the municipality traffic is lawfully
moving in two or more substantially continuous lines in the same direction, the
following rules apply:
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven, as nearly as is practicable, entirely
within a single lane or line of traffic and shall not be moved from the lane or
line until the driver has first ascertained that the movement can be made with
safety.
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for
the two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center
lane, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle where the roadway is
clearly visible and the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance,
or when preparing for a left turn, or where the center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding, and is posted with signs to give notice of such allocation.
      (3)   Official signs may be erected directing specified traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway, or restricting
the use of a particular lane to only buses during certain hours or during all
hours, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of such signs.
      (4)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey
the directions of every such device.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.33) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.09 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle
more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of
the vehicle and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
      (2)   The driver of any truck, or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle,
when traveling upon a roadway outside a business or residence district, shall
maintain a sufficient space, whenever conditions permit, between the vehicle
and another vehicle ahead so an overtaking motor vehicle may enter and occupy
the space without danger. This division does not prevent overtaking and passing
nor does it apply to any lane specially designated for use by trucks.
      (3)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business
or residence district in a caravan or motorcade shall maintain a sufficient
space between the vehicles so an overtaking vehicle may enter and occupy the
space without danger. This division shall not apply to funeral processions.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.34) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.10 TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall be
governed by the following rules:
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
center line thereof and by passing to the right of the center line where it
enters the intersection, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn
shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center line
of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made
in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
      (3)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of the
vehicle, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so
as to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane
of the roadway being entered lawfully available to traffic moving in that lane.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities may cause
markers, buttons, or signs to be placed within or adjacent to intersections,
and thereby require and direct that a different course from that specified in
this section be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when
markers, buttons, or signs are so placed, no operator of a vehicle shall turn
the vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and required by the
markers, buttons, or signs.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.36) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.11 TURNING INTO PRIVATE DRIVEWAY, ALLEY, OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn into a private road or driveway,
alley, or building from a public street or highway shall be governed by the
following rules:
   (A)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close as
practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   Upon a roadway where traffic is proceeding in opposite directions,
approach for a left turn shall be made from that portion of the right half of
the roadway nearest the center line thereof.
   (C)   Upon a roadway where traffic is restricted to one direction, approach
for a left turn and a left turn shall be made as close as practicable to the
left-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the driver of any vehicle entering a private
road or driveway, alley, or building to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians
lawfully using the sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across any alleyway.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.12 “U” TURNS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.13 and division (B) of this section,
no vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any
curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, if such vehicle
cannot be seen within 500 feet by the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from either direction.
   (B)   The driver of an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, may turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction. This division applies only when the emergency vehicle or
public safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle, and when the driver of the vehicle is giving an audible signal by
siren, exhaust whistle, or bell. This division does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.37) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.13 STARTING AND BACKING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or
parked until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
      (2)   Before backing, operators of vehicles shall give ample warning, and
while backing they shall exercise vigilance not to injure person or property on
the street or highway.
      (3)   No person shall back a motor vehicle on a freeway, except:
         (a)   In a rest area;
         (b)   In the performance of public works or official duties;
         (c)   As a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown
of a motor vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.38) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.14 SIGNALS BEFORE CHANGING COURSE, TURNING, OR STOPPING.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle or move right or left upon a
highway unless and until the person has exercised due care to ascertain that
the movement can be made with reasonable safety, nor without giving an
appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
      (2)   When required, a signal of intention to turn or move right or left
shall be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by
the vehicle before turning, except that in the case of a person operating a
bicycle or electric bicycle, the signal shall be made not less than one time
but is not required to be continuous. A bicycle or electric bicycle operator is
not required to make a signal if the bicycle is in a designated turn lane, and
a signal shall not be given when the operator’s hands are needed for the safe
operation of the bicycle or electric bicycle.
      (3)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear, when there is opportunity to
give a signal.
      (4)   Any stop or turn signal required by this section shall be given
either by means of the hand and arm, or by signal lights that clearly indicate
to both approaching and following traffic the intention to turn or move right
or left, except that any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped
with, and the required signal shall be given by, signal lights when the
distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the left outside
limit of the body, cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches, or when
the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit
of the body or load thereof exceeds 14 feet, whether a single vehicle or a
combination of vehicles.
      (5)   The signal lights required by this section shall not be flashed on
one side only on a disabled vehicle, flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal
to operators of other vehicles approaching from the rear, nor be flashed on one
side only of a parked vehicle except as may be necessary for compliance with
this section.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.39) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.15 HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, all signals
required by the provisions of this traffic code, when given by hand and arm,
shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and
the signals shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn, hand and arm extended upward;
      (3)   Stop or decrease speed, hand and arm extended downward.
   (B)   As an alternative to division (A)(2) of this section, a person
operating a bicycle or electric bicycle may give a right turn signal by
extending the right hand and arm horizontally and to the right side of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.40) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.16 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
streets or highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle
on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (B)   The right-of-way rule declared in division (A) of this section is
modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in this traffic code or
R.C. Chapter 4511.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.41) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.17 RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.42) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.18 OPERATION OF VEHICLE AT YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow down to a
speed reasonable for the existing conditions, and if required for safety to
stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering it. After
slowing, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways. Whenever a driver is involved in a
collision with a vehicle in the intersection or junction of roadways, after
driving past a yield sign without stopping, the collision shall be prima facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield the right-of- way.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.43(B), (C)) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.19 OPERATION OF VEHICLE AT STOP SIGNS.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a law enforcement officer, every
driver of a vehicle approaching at stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked
stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering it. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-
way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so
closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is
moving across or within the intersection or junction of roadways.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.43(A), (C)) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.20 EMERGENCY OR PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES AT STOP SIGNALS OR SIGNS.
   (A)   The driver of any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, upon approaching a red or stop signal or any
stop sign, shall slow down as necessary for safety to traffic, but may proceed
cautiously past the red or stop sign or signal with due regard for the safety
of all persons using the street or highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.03)
§ 72.21 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF PUBLIC SAFETY OR CORONER’S VEHICLE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of a public safety vehicle or coroner’s vehicle,
equipped with at least one flashing, rotating or oscillating light visible
under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
the vehicle and the driver is giving an audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle or bell, no driver of any other vehicle shall fail to yield the right-
of-way, immediately drive if practical to a position parallel to and as close
as possible to, the right edge or curb of the street clear of any intersection,
and stop and remain in that position until the public safety vehicle or
coroner’s vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police
officer.
   (B)   This section does not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle or
coroner’s vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons and property upon the street.
   (C)   This section applies to a coroner’s vehicle only when the vehicle is
operated in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4513.171. As used in this section,
“coroner’s vehicle” means a vehicle used by a coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator that is equipped with a flashing, oscillating or
rotating red or blue light and a siren, exhaust whistle, or bell capable of
giving an audible signal.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection or Section
72.211, whoever violates subsection (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense. On a second offense within
one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree, and, on each subsequent offense within one year after the first
offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(ORC 4511.45)
§ 72.211 REPORT OF VEHICLE FAILING TO YIELD RIGHT OF WAY TO PUBLIC SAFETY
VEHICLE.
   (A)   When the failure of a motor vehicle operator to yield the right-of-way
to a public safety vehicle as required by Section
72.21(A) impedes the ability of the public safety vehicle to respond to an
emergency, any emergency personnel in the public safety vehicle may report the
license plate number and a general description of the vehicle and the operator
of the vehicle to the law enforcement agency exercising jurisdiction over the
area where the alleged violation occurred.
   (B)   (1)   Upon receipt of a report under subsection (A) of this section,
the law enforcement agency may conduct an investigation to attempt to determine
or confirm the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation.
      (2)   If the identity of the operator at the time of an alleged violation
of Section
72.21(A) is established, the law enforcement agency has probable cause to issue
either a written warning or a citation for that violation, and the agency shall
issue a written warning or a citation to the operator.
      (3)   If the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency may issue a
warning to the person who owned the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation. However, in the case of a leased or rented vehicle, the law
enforcement agency shall issue the written warning to the person who leased or
rented the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates Section
72.21(A) based on a report filed under subsection (A) of this section is guilty
of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
      (2)   If a person who is issued a citation for a violation of Section
72.21(A) based on a report filed under subsection (a) of this section does not
enter a written plea of guilty and does not waive the person's right to contest
the citation but instead appears in person in the proper court to answer the
charge, the trier of fact cannot find beyond a reasonable doubt that the person
committed that violation unless the emergency personnel who filed the report
appears in person in the court and testifies.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "License plate" includes any temporary motor vehicle license
registration issued under R.C. § 4503.182 or similar law of another
jurisdiction.
      (2)   "Public safety vehicle" does not include an unmarked public safety
vehicle or a vehicle used by a public law enforcement officer or other person
sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the State or a vehicle used
by the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit for the enforcement of orders and rules
of the Public Utilities Commission.
(ORC 4511.454)
§ 72.22 DRIVING ONTO ROADWAY FROM PLACE OTHER THAN ROADWAY; DUTY TO YIELD.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from any
place other than another roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all traffic
approaching on the roadway to be entered or crossed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender violates division (A) of this section while distracted
and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.44) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.23 DRIVING ONTO ROADWAY FROM PLACE OTHER THAN ROADWAY; STOPPING AT
SIDEWALK.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private
road, or driveway within a business or residence district shall stop the
vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area
extending across the alley, building entrance, road, or driveway, or in the
event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the point nearest the street to
be entered where the driver has a view of approaching traffic thereon.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender violates division (A) of this section while distracted
and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.431) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.24 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF FUNERAL PROCESSION.
   (A)   As used in this section, FUNERAL PROCESSION means two or more vehicles
accompanying the cremated remains or the body of a deceased person in the
daytime when each of the vehicles has its headlights lighted and is displaying
a purple and white or an orange and white pennant attached to each vehicle in
such a manner as to be clearly visible to traffic approaching from any
direction.
   (B)   Excepting public safety vehicles proceeding in accordance with R.C. §
4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or when directed
otherwise by a police officer, pedestrians and the operators of all vehicles
shall yield the right-of-way to each vehicle that is a part of a funeral
procession. Whenever the lead vehicle in a funeral procession lawfully enters
an intersection, the remainder of the vehicles in the procession may continue
to follow the lead vehicle through the intersection, notwithstanding any
traffic-control devices or right-of-way provisions of the Ohio Revised Code,
provided that the operator of each vehicle exercises due care to avoid
colliding with any other vehicle or pedestrian.
   (C)   No person shall operate any vehicle as a part of a funeral procession
without having the headlights of the vehicle lighted and without displaying a
purple and white or an orange and white pennant in such a manner as to be
clearly visible to traffic approaching from any direction.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.451) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.25 DRIVING ACROSS GRADE CROSSING.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad
grade crossing, the person shall stop within fifty feet, but not less than
fifteen feet from the nearest rail of the railroad, if any of the following
circumstances exist at the crossing:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a train.
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered.
         (c)   A flagperson gives or continues to give a signal of the approach
or passage of a train.
         (d)   There is insufficient space on the other side of the railroad
grade crossing to accommodate the vehicle the person is operating without
obstructing the passage of other vehicles, pedestrians, or railroad trains,
notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed.
         (e)   An approaching train is emitting an audible signal or is plainly
visible and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing.
         (f)   There is insufficient undercarriage clearance to safely
negotiate the crossing.
      (2)   A person who is driving a vehicle and who approaches a railroad
grade crossing shall not proceed as long as any of the circumstances described
in divisions (A)(1)(a) to (f) of this section exist at the crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed unless the person is signaled by a law
enforcement officer or flagperson that it is permissible to do so.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(ORC 4511.62)
§ 72.26 STOPPING AT GRADE CROSSING.
   (A)   As used in this section, ACTIVE GRADE CROSSING WARNING DEVICE means
signs, signals, gates, or other protective devices erected or installed at a
public highway-railway crossing at common grade and activated by an electrical
circuit.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities, with the
approval of the Department, may designate dangerous highway crossings over
railroad tracks and erect stop signs thereat.
   (C)   (1)   The Department and local authorities shall erect stop signs at a
railroad highway grade crossing in either of the following circumstances:
         (a)   New warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning
devices are being installed at the grade crossing, and railroad crossbucks were
the only warning devices at the grade crossing prior to the installation of the
new warning devices.
         (b)   The grade crossing is constructed after July 1, 2013, and only
warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning devices are
installed at the grade crossing.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a railroad
highway grade crossing that the Director of Transportation has exempted from
that division because of traffic flow or other considerations or factors.
   (D)   When stop signs are erected pursuant to division (B) or (C) of this
section, the operator of any vehicle shall stop within 50, but not less than
15, feet from the nearest rail of the railroad tracks and shall exercise due
care before proceeding across such grade crossing.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (F)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. 4511.61)
§ 72.27 DRIVER'S VIEW AND CONTROL TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED BY LOAD OR PERSONS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, as to obstruct the view of the
driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or to interfere with the driver's
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in any position as to interfere
with the driver's view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with his control
over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4511.70 (A), (B)) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.28 DRIVING UPON STREET POSTED AS CLOSED FOR REPAIR.
   (A)   No person shall drive upon, along, or across a street or highway, or
any part of a street or highway that has been closed in the process of its
construction, reconstruction, or repair, and posted with appropriate signs by
the authority having jurisdiction to close the highway.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.71) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.29 FOLLOWING AND PARKING NEAR EMERGENCY OR SAFETY VEHICLES.
   The driver of any vehicle, other than an emergency vehicle or public safety
vehicle on official business, shall not follow any emergency vehicle or public
safety vehicle traveling in response to an alarm closer than 500 feet, or drive
into or park the vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has stopped in
answer to a fire alarm, unless directed to do so by a police officer or a
fireman.
(R.C. § 4511.72) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.291 APPROACHING A STATIONARY PUBLIC SAFETY, EMERGENCY OR ROAD SERVICE AND
CERTAIN OTHER VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of a motor vehicle, upon approaching a stationary public
safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection
vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor
vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a
highway maintenance vehicle that is displaying the appropriate visual signals
by means of flashing, oscillating, or rotating lights, as prescribed in R.C. §
4513.17, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   If the driver of the motor vehicle is traveling on a highway that
consists of at least two lanes that carry traffic in the same direction of
travel as that of the driver’s motor vehicle, the driver shall proceed with due
caution and, if possible and with due regard to the road, weather, and traffic
conditions, shall change lanes into a lane that is not adjacent to that of the
stationary public safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle,
waste collection vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to
conduct motor vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and
4923.06, or a highway maintenance vehicle.
      (2)   If the driver is not traveling on a highway of a type described in
division (B)(1)(a) of this section, or if the driver is traveling on a highway
of that type but it is not possible to change lanes or if to do so would be
unsafe, the driver shall proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of the
motor vehicle, and maintain a safe speed for the road, weather, and traffic
conditions.
   (B)   This section does not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle,
emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection vehicle, vehicle used
by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor vehicle inspections in
accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a highway maintenance vehicle
from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons and
property upon the highway.
   (C)   No person shall fail to drive a motor vehicle in compliance with
divisions (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section when so required by this section.
   (D)   Penalty.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding §
130.99 or R.C. § 2929.28, upon a finding that a person operated a motor vehicle
in violation of division (B)(3) of this section, the court, in addition to all
other penalties provided by law, shall impose a fine of two times the usual
amount imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
   (E)   The offense established under division (B) of this section is a strict
liability offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this
offense as a strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any
other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a
strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4511.213)
§ 72.30 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall, without the consent of the fire department official
in command, be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department that is
laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of
fire.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.73) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.31 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety
zone.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.60) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.32 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for one-way
traffic, a vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
      (2)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven
only to the right of the rotary traffic island.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.32) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.33 DRIVING UPON DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two roadways by an
intervening space, or by a physical barrier, or a clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway, and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across, or within any dividing space, barrier, or section, except through an
opening, crossover, or intersection established by public authority. This
section does not prohibit the occupancy of the dividing space, barrier, or
section for the purpose of an emergency stop, or in compliance with an order of
a police officer.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.35) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.34 ENTERING AND EXITING CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access highway
except at entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.35 OBSTRUCTING INTERSECTION, CROSSWALK, OR GRADE CROSSING.
   (A)   No driver shall enter an intersection or marked crosswalk, or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing, unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk, or grade crossing to accommodate the
vehicle the driver is operating without obstructing the passage of other
vehicles, pedestrians, or railroad trains, notwithstanding any traffic-control
signal indication to proceed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.712) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.36 FAILURE TO CONTROL; WEAVING COURSE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle upon any street,
highway, or property open to the public for vehicular traffic without being in
reasonable control of the vehicle or motorcycle. (R.C. § 4511.202)
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle upon any street
or highway in a weaving or zigzag course unless the irregular course is
necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law. (Ord. 2376, passed 4-
12-83) Penalty, see §
70.99
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of operating a
motor vehicle without being in control of it, a minor misdemeanor. (R.C. §
4511.99(I))
§ 72.37 SQUEALING TIRES, “PEELING”, CRACKING EXHAUST NOISES.
   No person shall unnecessarily race the motor of any vehicle and no person
shall operate any motor vehicle, except in an emergency, in a manner that the
vehicle is so rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped position that the
exhaust system emits a loud, cracking, or chatter-noise unusual to its normal
operation, or whereby the tires of the vehicle squeal or leave the tire marks
on the roadway, commonly called “peeling.”
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.38 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALKS, STREET LAWNS, OR CURBS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall drive any vehicle, other than a bicycle or an
electric bicycle if the motor is not engaged, upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area,
except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
      (2)   This prohibition does not apply to a law enforcement officer, or
other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state, using
an electric bicycle with the motor engaged while in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting local
authorities from regulating the operation of bicycles or electric bicycles,
except that no local authority may require that bicycles or electric bicycles
be operated on sidewalks.
(R.C. § 4511.711(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, snowmobile, or all-
purpose vehicle upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, when
an appropriate sign giving notice of such use is posted on the path.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect any rule of
the Director of Natural Resources governing the operation of motor vehicles,
snowmobiles, all- purpose vehicles, and bicycles on lands under the Director’s
jurisdiction.
(R.C. § 4511.713(A))
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.711(B), 4511.713(B)) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.39 STOPPING FOR SCHOOL BUS; DISCHARGING CHILDREN.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging
any school child, person attending programs offered by community boards of
mental health and County boards of developmental disabilities, or child
attending a program offered by a head start agency, shall stop at least ten
feet from the front or rear of the school bus and shall not proceed until such
school bus resumes motion, or until signaled by the school bus driver to
proceed.
   It is no defense to a charge under this subsection (A) hereof that the
school bus involved failed to display or be equipped with an automatically
extended stop warning sign as required by subsection (B) hereof.
   (B)   Every school bus shall be equipped with amber and red visual signals
meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.771 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce, which shall be
actuated by the driver of the bus whenever but only whenever the bus is stopped
or stopping on the roadway for the purpose of receiving or discharging school
children, persons attending programs offered by community boards of mental
health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or children attending
programs offered by head start agencies. A school bus driver shall not actuate
the visual signals or the stop warning sign in designated school bus loading
areas where the bus is entirely off the roadway or at school buildings when
children or persons attending programs offered by community boards of mental
health and county boards of developmental disabilities are loading or unloading
at curbside or at buildings when children attending programs offered by head
start agencies are loading or unloading at curbside. The visual signals and
stop warning sign shall be synchronized or otherwise operated as required by
the Ohio Administrative Code.
   (C)   Where a highway has been divided into four or more traffic lanes, a
driver of a vehicle need not stop for a school bus approaching from the
opposite direction which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school child, persons attending programs offered by community
boards of mental health and County boards of developmental disabilities, or
children attending programs offered by head start agencies. The driver of any
vehicle overtaking the school bus shall comply with subsection (A) hereof.
   (D)   School buses operating on divided highways or on highways with four or
more traffic lanes shall receive and discharge all school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and County
boards of developmental disabilities, and children attending programs offered
by head start agencies on their residence side of the highway.
   (E)   No school bus driver shall start the driver's bus until after any
child, person attending programs offered by community boards of mental health
and County boards of developmental disabilities, or child attending a program
offered by a head start agency who may have alighted therefrom has reached a
place of safety on the child or person's residence side of the road.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Head start agency” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 3301.32.
      (2)   “School bus”, as used in relation to children who attend a program
offered by a head start agency, means a bus that is owned and operated by a
head start agency, is equipped with an automatically extended stop warning sign
of a type approved by the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce, is
painted the color and displays the markings described in R.C. § 4511.77, and is
equipped with amber and red visual signals meeting the requirements of R.C. §
4511.77, irrespective of whether or not the bus has 15 or more children aboard
at any time. The term does not include a van owned and operated by a head start
agency, irrespective of its color, lights or markings.
   (G)   Whoever violates subsection (A) of this section may be fined an amount
not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00). A person who is issued a citation
for a violation of subsection (A) of this section is not permitted to enter a
written plea of guilty and waive the person’s right to contest the citation in
a trial but instead must appear in person in the proper court to answer the
charge.
(ORC 4511.75)
§ 72.391 SUSPENSION OF DRIVING PRIVILEGES.
   In addition to and independent of any other penalty provided by law, the
court or mayor may impose upon an offender who violates Section
72.39 a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or
nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in division (a)(7) of
Ohio R.C. 4510.02. When a license is suspended under this section, the court or
mayor shall cause the offender to deliver the license to the court, and the
court or clerk of the court immediately shall forward the license to the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles, together with notice of the court’s action.
(ORC 4511.75)
§ 72.392 REPORT OF ALLEGED VIOLATIONS TO POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   As used in this section LICENSE PLATE includes, but is not limited to,
any temporary plate issued under any applicable section of the Ohio Revised
Code or similar law of another jurisdiction.
   (B)   When the operator of a school bus believes that a motorist has
violated division (A) of §
72.39 of the code, the operator shall report the license plate number and
general description of the vehicle to the Police Department.
   (C)   On receipts of the report of the alleged violation of division (A) of
§
72.39 of the code, the Police Department shall conduct an investigation to
attempt to determine the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation. If the identity of the operator at the time of the
alleged violation is established, the reporting of the license plate number of
the vehicle shall establish probable cause for the Police Department to issue a
citation for the violation of division (A) of §
72.39 of the code. However, if the identity of the operator of the vehicle at
the time of the alleged violation cannot be established, the Police Department
shall issue a warning to the owner of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation, except in the case of a leased or rented vehicle when the warning
shall be issued to the lessee at the time of the alleged violation.
(Ord. 2125, passed 5-8-79)
§ 72.40 OCCUPYING TRAVEL TRAILER, FIFTH WHEEL VEHICLE, OR MANUFACTURED OR
MOBILE HOME WHILE IN MOTION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no person shall
occupy any travel trailer, fifth wheel trailer, or manufactured or mobile home
while it is being used as a conveyance upon a street or highway.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a fifth wheel
trailer when both of the following apply:
         (a)   Any child riding in the fifth wheel trailer is properly secured
in the manner provided in R.C. § 4511.81.
         (b)   The operator of the vehicle towing the fifth wheel trailer has
some means of viable communication with the passengers riding in the trailer.
      (2)   As used in this division, “viable communication” includes a
cellular or satellite telephone, a radio, or any other similar electronic
wireless communications device.
   (C)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense as a
strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict
liability offense.
(R.C. § 4511.701)
§ 72.41 RESTRICTING USE OF MOTOR VEHICLES ON CITY PROPERTY AND CITY PARKS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on lands, paved walks, or
paths on any property owned or controlled by the city, except within those
areas specifically designated for motorized vehicular traffic. No person shall
operate motorized bicycles in the city parks or on any city owned property.
   (B)   No unlicensed motor vehicles shall be operated on any city property
except those areas designated for use by motorized recreational vehicles.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to vehicles used in the
maintenance of city property nor to city vehicles operated on the property by
city employees, nor to vehicles operated on the property pursuant to a public
event sponsored or approved by the city, nor to emergency vehicles.
   (D)   Whoever violates the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and fined not more than $50.
(Ord. 1746, passed 5-22-72)
§ 72.42 TRANSPORTING CHILD NOT IN CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in Ohio R.C. 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly secured in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions in a child
restraint system that meets federal motor safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than forty pounds.
   (B)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab, that is owned,
leased, or otherwise under the control of a nursery school or child care
center, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child properly secured
in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child restraint system
that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than forty pounds.
   (C)   When any child who is less than eight years of age and less than four
feet nine inches in height, who is not required by subsection (A) or (B) of
this section to be secured in a child restraint system, is being transported in
a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety vehicle as defined in
Ohio R.C. 4511.01 or a vehicle that is regulated under Ohio R.C. 5104.011, that
is required by the United States Department of Transportation to be equipped
with seat belts at the time of manufacture or assembly, the operator of the
motor vehicle shall have the child properly secured in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions on a booster seat that meets federal motor vehicle
safety standards.
   (D)   When any child who is at least eight years of age but not older that
fifteen years of age and who is not otherwise required by subsection (A), (B)
or (C) hereof to be secured in a child restraint system or booster seat, is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in Ohio R.C. 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly restrained either in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions
in a child restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards
or in an occupant restraining device as defined in Ohio R.C. 4513.263.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of subsection (C) or (D) of this section has
been or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket,
citation, or summons for a violation of subsection (C) or (D) of this section
or causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a
violation of subsection (C) or (D) of this section, and absent another
violation of law, a law enforcement officer's view of the interior or visual
inspection of a motor vehicle being operated on any street or highway may not
be used for the purpose of determining whether a violation of subsection (C) or
(D) of this section has been or is being committed.
   (F)   The Ohio Director of Public Safety shall adopt such rules as are
necessary to carry out this section.
   (G)   The failure of an operator of a motor vehicle to secure a child in a
child restraint system, a booster seat or an occupant restraining device as
required by this section is not negligence imputable to the child, is not
admissible as evidence in any civil action involving the rights of the child
against any other person allegedly liable for injuries to the child, is not to
be used as a basis for a criminal prosecution of the operator of the motor
vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section, and is not
admissible as evidence in any criminal action involving the operator of the
motor vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
   (H)   This section does not apply when an emergency exists that threatens
the life of any person operating or occupying a motor vehicle that is being
used to transport a child who otherwise would be required to be restrained
under this section. This section does not apply to a person operating a motor
vehicle who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
State under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in
this State under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4734 that states that the child who
otherwise would be required to be restrained under this section has a physical
impairment that makes use of a child restraint system, booster seat or an
occupant restraining device impossible or impractical, provided that the person
operating the vehicle has safely and appropriately restrained the child in
accordance with any recommendations of the physician or chiropractor as noted
on the affidavit.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any person to
carry with the person the birth certificate of a child to prove the age of the
child, but the production of a valid birth certificate for a child showing that
the child was not of an age to which this section applies is a defense against
any ticket, citation or summons issued for violating this section.
   (J)   Whoever violates subsection (A), (B), (C) or (D) of this section shall
be punished as follows, provided that the failure of an operator of a motor
vehicle to secure more than one child in a child restraint system, booster
seat, or occupant restraining device as required by this section that occurred
at the same time, on the same day, and at the same location is deemed to be a
single violation of this section:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (J)(2) of this section,
the offender is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seventy-five dollars ($75.00).
      (2)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of subsection (A), (B), (C) or (D) of this section or of a state
law or municipal ordinance that is substantially similar to any of those
subsections, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(ORC 4511.81)
§ 72.43 FAILURE TO USE OR ILLEGAL USE OF REQUIRED IGNITION INTERLOCK DEVICE.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   IGNITION INTERLOCK DEVICE means a device that connects a breath
analyzer to a motor vehicle's ignition system, that is constantly available to
monitor the concentration by weight of alcohol in the breath of any person
attempting to start that motor vehicle by using its ignition system, and that
deters starting the motor vehicle by use of its ignition system unless the
person attempting to so start the vehicle provides an appropriate breath sample
for the device and the device determines that the concentration by weight of
alcohol in the person's breath is below a preset level.
      (2)   OFFENDER WITH RESTRICTED DRIVING PRIVILEGES means an offender who
is subject to an order that was issued under R.C. § 4507.16(F) as a condition
of the granting of occupational driving privileges or an offender whose driving
privilege is restricted as a condition of probation pursuant to R.C. § 2951.02
(I).
   (B)   (1)   Except in cases of a substantial emergency when no other person
is `reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency, no person shall
knowingly rent, lease, or lend a motor vehicle to any offender with restricted
driving privileges unless the vehicle is equipped with a functioning ignition
interlock device that is certified pursuant to R.C. § 4511.83(D).
      (2)   Any offender with restricted driving privileges who rents, leases,
or borrows a motor vehicle from another person shall notify the person who
rents, leases, or lends the motor vehicle to the offender that the offender has
restricted driving privileges and of the nature of the restriction.
      (3)   Any offender with restricted driving privileges who is required to
operate a motor vehicle owned by the offender's employer in the course and
scope of the offender's employment may operate that vehicle without the
installation of an ignition interlock device, provided that the employer has
been notified that the offender has restricted driving privileges and of the
nature of the restriction and provided further that the offender has proof of
the employer's notification in the offender's possession while operating the
employer's vehicle for normal business duties. A motor vehicle owned by a
business that is partly or entirely owned or controlled by an offender with
restricted driving privileges is not a motor vehicle owned by an employer, for
purposes of this division.
   (C)   (1)   No offender with restricted driving privileges, during any
period that the offender is required to operate only a motor vehicle equipped
with an ignition interlock device, shall request or permit any other person to
breathe into the device or start a motor vehicle equipped with the device, for
the purpose of providing the offender with an operable motor vehicle.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(2)(b) below, no person
shall breathe into an ignition interlock device or start a motor vehicle
equipped with an ignition interlock device for the purpose of providing an
operable motor vehicle to an offender with restricted driving privileges.
         (b)   Division (C)(2)(a) above does not apply to an offender with
restricted driving privileges who breathes into an ignition interlock device or
starts a motor vehicle equipped with an ignition interlock device for the
purpose of providing himself or herself with an operable motor vehicle.
      (3)   No unauthorized person shall tamper with or circumvent the
operation of an ignition interlock device. (R.C. § 4511.83)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.99(I))
§ 72.44 VEHICULAR OPERATION ON STREET CLOSED DUE TO RISE IN WATER LEVEL.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle on or onto a public street or
highway that is temporarily covered by a rise in water level, including
groundwater or an overflow of water, and that is clearly marked by a sign that
specifies that the road is closed due to the rise in water level and that any
person who uses the closed portion of the road may be fined up to two thousand
dollars ($2,000).
   (B)   A person who is issued a citation for a violation of subsection (a)
hereof is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty and waive the
person’s right to contest the citation in court, but instead must appear in
person in the proper court to answer the charge.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates subsection (a) hereof is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
      (2)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required under
Section 501.99 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required under any
provision of law, the court imposing the sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of subsection (a) hereof shall
order the offender to reimburse one or more rescuers for the cost any such
rescurer incurred in rescuing the person, excluding any cost of transporting
the rescued person to a hospital or other facility for treatment of injuries,
up to a cumulative maximum of two thousand dollars ($2,000). If more than one
rescuer was involved in the emergency response, the court shall allocate the
reimbursement proportionately, according to the cost each rescuer incurred. A
financial sanction imposed under this section is a judgment in favor of the
rescuer and, subject to a determination of indigency under division (B) of Ohio
R.C. 2929.28, a rescuer may collect the financial sanction in the same manner
as provided in Ohio R.C. 2929.28.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Emergency medical service organization”, “firefighting agency” and
“private fire company” have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 9.60.
      (2)   “Rescuer” means a state agency, political subdivision, firefighting
service, private fire company, or emergency medical service organization. (ORC
4511.714.)
INTOXICATION; RECKLESS OPERATION; SPEED
§ 72.45 DRIVING OR PHYSICAL CONTROL WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any vehicle within this municipality,
if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse,
or a combination of them.
         (b)   The person has a concentration of 0.08% or more but less than
0.17% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (c)   The person has a concentration of 0.096% or more but less than
0.204% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
         (d)   The person has a concentration of 0.08 grams or more but less
than 0.17 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         (e)   The person has a concentration of 0.11 grams or more but less
than 0.238 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s
urine.
         (f)   The person has a concentration of 0.17% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (g)   The person has a concentration of 0.204% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or plasma.
         (h)   The person has a concentration of 0.17 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         (i)   The person has a concentration of 0.238 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
         (j)   Except as provided in division (K) of this section, the person
has a concentration of any of the following controlled substances or
metabolites of a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum
or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds any of the following:
            1.   The person has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s
urine of at least 500 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter
of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            2.   The person has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s
urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s urine
or has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            3.   The person has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s urine or has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms of
cocaine metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            4.   The person has a concentration of heroin in the person’s urine
of at least 2,000 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s urine or
has a concentration of heroin in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            5.   The person has a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-
monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s urine of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s urine or has
a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s whole blood
or blood serum or plasma.
            6.   The person has a concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s urine
of at least 25 nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s urine or a
concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of
at least ten nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma.
            7.   The person has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s
urine of at least ten nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least two nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            8.   Either of the following applies:
               a.    The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or a combination of them, and the person has a concentration of
marihuana metabolite in the person’s urine of at least 15 nanograms of
marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s urine or has a
concentration of marihuana metabolite in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least five nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
               b.    The person has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in
the person’s urine of at least 35 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s urine or has a concentration of marihuana metabolite
in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms
of marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma.
            9.   The person has a concentration of methamphetamine in the
person’s urine of at least 500 nanograms of methamphetamine per milliliter of
the person’s urine or has a concentration of methamphetamine in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of
methamphetamine per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            10.   The person has a concentration of phencyclidine in the
person’s urine of at least 25 nanograms of phencyclidine per milliliter of the
person’s urine or has a concentration of phencyclidine in the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of phencyclidine per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            11.   The State Board of Pharmacy has adopted a rule pursuant to
R.C. § 4729.041 that specifies the amount of salvia divinorum and the amount of
salvinorin A that constitute concentrations of salvia divinorum and salvinorin
A in a person’s urine, in a person’s whole blood, or in a person’s blood serum
or plasma at or above which the person is impaired for purposes of operating
any vehicle within this state, the rule is in effect, and the person has a
concentration of salvia divinorum or salvinorin A of at least that amount so
specified by rule in the person’s urine, in the person’s whole blood, or in the
person’s blood serum or plasma.
      (2)   No person who, within 20 years of the conduct described in division
(A)(2)(a) of this section, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of this division or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or any other
equivalent offense shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Operate any vehicle within this municipality while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         (b)   Subsequent to being arrested for operating the vehicle as
described in division (A)(2)(a) of this section, being asked by a law
enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and being advised by the
officer in accordance with R.C. § 4511.192 or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance of the consequences of the person’s refusal or submission
to the test or tests, refuse to submit to the test or tests.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall operate any vehicle within this
municipality, if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02% but less than
0.08% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
      (2)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.03% but less than
0.096% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
      (3)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02 grams but less than
0.08 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
      (4)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.028 grams but less
than 0.11 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
   (C)   In any proceeding arising out of one incident, a person may be charged
with a violation of division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(2) and a violation of division
(B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section, but the person may not be convicted
of more than one violation of these divisions.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding
for a violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section or for an equivalent
offense that is vehicle-related, the result of any test of any blood or urine
withdrawn and analyzed at any health care provider, as defined in R.C. §
2317.02, may be admitted with expert testimony to be considered with any other
relevant and competent evidence in determining the guilt or innocence of the
defendant.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) or
(B) of this section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, the
court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of abuse,
controlled substances, metabolites of a controlled substance, or a combination
of them in the defendant’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine,
or other bodily substance at the time of the alleged violation as shown by
chemical analysis of the substance withdrawn within three hours of the time of
the alleged violation. The three-hour time limit specified in this division
regarding the admission of evidence does not extend or affect the two-hour time
limit specified in R.C. § 4511.192(A) as the maximum period of time during
which a person may consent to a chemical test or tests as described in that
section. The court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of
abuse, or a combination of them as described in this division when a person
submits to a blood test at the request of a law enforcement officer under R.C.
§ 4511.191 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a blood or
urine sample is obtained pursuant to a search warrant. Only a physician, a
registered nurse, an emergency medical technician-intermediate, an emergency
medical technician-paramedic, or a qualified technician, chemist, or
phlebotomist shall withdraw a blood sample for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the whole blood, blood serum, or blood plasma. This
limitation does not apply to the taking of breath or urine specimens. A person
authorized to withdraw blood under this division may refuse to withdraw blood
under this division, if in that person’s opinion, the physical welfare of the
person would be endangered by the withdrawing of blood. The bodily substance
withdrawn under this division (D)(1)(b) shall be analyzed in accordance with
methods approved by the Director of Health by an individual possessing a valid
permit issued by the Director pursuant to R.C. § 3701.143.
         (c)   As used in division (D)(1)(b) of this section, EMERGENCY MEDICAL
TECHNICIAN- INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4765.01.
      (2)   In a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) of this
section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, if there was at
the time the bodily substance was withdrawn a concentration of less than the
applicable concentration of alcohol specified in divisions (A)(1)(b), (A)(1)
(c), (A)(1)(d) and (A)(1)(e) of this section or less than the applicable
concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance specified for a violation of division (A)(1)(j) of this
section, that fact may be considered with other competent evidence in
determining the guilt or innocence of the defendant. This division does not
limit or affect a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (B) of this
section.
      (3)   Upon the request of the person who was tested, the results of the
chemical test shall be made available to the person or the person’s attorney,
immediately upon the completion of the chemical test analysis. If the chemical
test was obtained pursuant to division (D)(1)(b) of this section, the person
tested may have a physician, a registered nurse, or a qualified technician,
chemist, or phlebotomist of the person’s own choosing administer a chemical
test or tests, at the person’s expense, in addition to any administered at the
request of a law enforcement officer. If the person was under arrest as
described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the arresting officer shall advise the
person at the time of the arrest that the person may have an independent
chemical test taken at the person’s own expense. If the person was under arrest
other than described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the form to be read to the
person to be tested, as required under R.C. § 4511.191, shall state that the
person may have an independent test performed at the person’s expense. The
failure or inability to obtain an additional chemical test by a person shall
not preclude the admission of evidence relating to the chemical test or tests
taken at the request of a law enforcement officer.
      (4)   (a)   As used in division (D)(4)(b) and (D)(4)(c) of this section,
NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION means the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration established as an administration of the United
States Department of Transportation under 96 Stat. 2415 (1983), 49 U.S.C. §
105.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, of a municipal ordinance
relating to operating a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or alcohol and a drug of abuse, or of a municipal ordinance relating to
operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine, if a law enforcement officer has
administered a field sobriety test to the operator of the vehicle involved in
the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally accepted field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect that were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
            1.   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
            2.   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field
sobriety test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding.
            3.   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (D)(4)(b)1. or (D)(4)(b)2. of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
         (c)   Division (D)(4)(b) of this section does not limit or preclude a
court, in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (D)(4)(b) of this section.
   (E)   (1)   Subject to division (E)(3) of this section, in any criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a violation of division (A)(1)(b),
(A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), (A)(1)(e), (A)(1)(f), (A)(1)(g), (A)(1)(h), (A)(1)(i), or
(A)(1)(j) or (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section or for an
equivalent offense that is substantially equivalent to any of those divisions,
a laboratory report from any laboratory personnel issued a permit by the
Department of Health authorizing an analysis as described in this division that
contains an analysis of the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine,
or other bodily substance tested and that contains all of the information
specified in this division shall be admitted as prima facie evidence of the
information and statements that the report contains. The laboratory report
shall contain all of the following:
         (a)   The signature, under oath, of any person who performed the
analysis;
         (b)   Any findings as to the identity and quantity of alcohol, a drug
of abuse, a controlled substance, a metabolite of a controlled substance, or a
combination of them that was found;
         (c)   A copy of a notarized statement by the laboratory director of a
designee of the director that contains the name of each certified analyst or
test performer involved with the report, the analyst’s or test performer’s
employment relationship with the laboratory that issued the report, and a
notation that performing an analysis of the type involved is part of the
analyst’s or test performer’s regular duties;
         (d)   An outline of the analyst’s or test performer’s education,
training, and experience in performing the type of analysis involved and a
certification that the laboratory satisfies appropriate quality control
standards in general and, in this particular analysis, under rules of the
Department of Health.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law regarding the admission
of evidence, a report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
is not admissible against the defendant to whom it pertains in any proceeding,
other than a preliminary hearing or a grand jury proceeding, unless the
prosecutor has served a copy of the report on the defendant’s attorney or, if
the defendant has no attorney, on the defendant.
      (3)   A report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents, identity, or amount of any
substance if, within seven days after the defendant to whom the report pertains
or the defendant’s attorney receives a copy of the report, the defendant or the
defendant’s attorney demands the testimony of the person who signed the report.
The judge in the case may extend the seven-day time limit in the interest of
justice.
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, any physician,
registered nurse, emergency medical technician- intermediate, emergency medical
technician- paramedic, or qualified technician, chemist, or phlebotomist who
withdraws blood from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, and any hospital, first-aid station, or clinic at which
blood is withdrawn from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, is immune from criminal liability and civil liability
based upon a claim of assault and battery or any other claim that is not a
claim of malpractice, for any act performed in withdrawing blood from the
person. The immunity provided in this division also extends to an emergency
medical service organization that employs an emergency medical technician-
intermediate or emergency medical technician- paramedic who withdraws blood
under this section. The immunity provided in this division is not available to
a person who withdraws blood if the person engages in willful or wanton
misconduct.
      (2)   As used in division (F)(1), EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-
INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN- PARAMEDIC have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 4765.01.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates any provisions of divisions (A)(1)(a) through
(A)(1)(i) or (A)(2) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them. Whoever
violates division (A)(1)(j) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle
while under the influence of a listed controlled substance or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance. The court shall sentence the offender for
either offense under R.C. Chapter 2929, except as otherwise authorized or
required by divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(b), (G)(1)(c),
(G)(1)(d), or (G)(1)(e) of this section, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree, and the court shall sentence the offender to
all of the penalties and sanctions provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a)(i)
through (G)(1)(a)(iv).
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of division (A) of this section
or one other equivalent offense is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
The court shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions
provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) through (G)(1)(b)(v).
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (A) of this
section or other equivalent offenses is guilty of a misdemeanor. The court
shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions provided in
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c)(i) through (G)(1)(c)(vi).
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division (A) of
this section or other equivalent offenses or an offender who, within 20 years
of the offense, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to five or
more violations of that nature, or an offender who previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a specification of the type described in R.C.
§ 2941.1413, is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
         (e)   An offender who previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) that was a felony, regardless of
when the violation and the conviction or guilty plea occurred, is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   An offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section and who subsequently seeks reinstatement of the
driver’s or occupational driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege suspended under this section or R.C. § 4511.19 as a result of the
conviction or guilty plea shall pay a reinstatement fee as provided in R.C. §
4511.191(F)(2).
      (3)   (a)   If an offender is sentenced to a jail term under R.C. §
4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) or (G)(1)(b)(ii) or (G)(1)(c)(i) or (G)(1)(c)(ii) and if,
within 60 days of sentencing of the offender, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the term, the offender will not be able
to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following the date of
sentencing, the court may impose an alternative sentence as specified in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3) that includes a term of house arrest with electronic monitoring,
with continuous alcohol monitoring, or with both electronic monitoring and
continuous alcohol monitoring.
         (b)   As an alternative to the mandatory jail terms as required by
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1), the court may sentence the offender as provided in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3).
      (4)   If an offender’s driver’s or occupational driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is suspended under division (G) of
this section or R.C. § 4511.19(G) and if R.C. § 4510.13 permits the court to
grant limited driving privileges, the court may grant the limited driving
privileges in accordance with that section. If division (A)(7) of that section
requires the court impose as a condition of the privileges that the offender
must display on the vehicle that is driven subject to the privileges restricted
license plates that are issued under R.C. § 4503.231, except as provided in
division (B) of that section, the court shall impose that condition as one of
the conditions of the limited driving privileges granted to the offender,
except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (5)   Fines imposed under this section for a violation of division (A) of
this section shall be distributed as provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(5).
      (6)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order of criminal
forfeiture under division (G)(1)(c), (G)(1)(d), or (G)(1)(e) of this section is
assigned or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in
addition to or independent of any other penalty established by law, the court
may fine the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of
the National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds of any fine so
imposed shall be distributed in accordance with division (C)(2) of that
section.
      (7)   In all cases in which an offender is sentenced under division (G)
of this section, the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, the court, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, may order restitution pursuant to § 130.99(G) or
R.C. § 2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under division (G)
of this section.
      (8)   A court may order an offender to reimburse a law enforcement agency
for any costs incurred by the agency with respect to a chemical test or tests
administered to the offender if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section.
         (b)   The test or tests were of the offender’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, or urine.
         (c)   The test or tests indicated that the offender had a prohibited
concentration of a controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled
substance in the offender’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine at the
time of the offense.
      (9)   As used in division (G) of this section, ELECTRONIC MONITORING has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of operating a
motor vehicle after underage alcohol consumption and shall be punished as
follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (H)(2) of this section,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. In addition to
any other sanction imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class six
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6). The court may grant
limited driving privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021
and 4510.13. The court may grant unlimited driving privileges with an ignition
interlock device relative to the suspension and may reduce the period of
suspension as authorized under R.C. § 4510.022. If the court grants unlimited
driving privileges under R.C. § 4510.022, the court shall suspend any jail term
imposed under division (H)(1) of this section as required under that section.
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of division (A)
of this section or other equivalent offenses, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition to any other sanction imposed for
the offense, the court shall impose a class four suspension of the offender’s
driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4). The court may grant limited driving
privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021 and 4510.13.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to § 130.99
(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing
the violation of division (B) of this section.
   (I)   (1)   No court shall sentence an offender to an alcohol treatment
program under this section unless the treatment program complies with the
minimum standards for alcohol treatment programs adopted under R.C. Chapter
5119 by the Director of Mental Health and Addiction Services.
      (2)   An offender who stays in a drivers’ intervention program or in an
alcohol treatment program under an order issued under this section shall pay
the cost of the stay in the program. However, if the court determines that an
offender who stays in an alcohol treatment program under an order issued under
this section is unable to pay the cost of the stay in the program, the court
may order that the cost be paid from the court’s Indigent Drivers’ Alcohol
Treatment Fund.
   (J)   If a person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege is suspended under this section or R.C. §
4511.19 files an appeal regarding any aspect of the person’s trial or sentence,
the appeal itself does not stay the operation of the suspension.
   (K)   Division (A)(1)(j) of this section does not apply to a person who
operates a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed controlled
substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s
whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds the amount
specified in that division, if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
   (L)   The prohibited concentrations of a controlled substance or a
metabolite of a controlled substance listed in division (A)(1)(j) of this
section also apply in a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2923.16(D) in the
same manner as if the offender is being prosecuted for a prohibited
concentration of alcohol.
   (M)   All terms defined in R.C. § 4510.01 apply to this section. If the
meaning of a term defined in R.C. § 4510.01 conflicts with the meaning of the
same term as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or 4511.01, the term as defined in R.C.
§ 4510.01 applies to this section.
(R.C. § 4511.19(A) - (M))
   (N)   As used in this section and §
72.45:
      COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2929.01.
      CONTINUOUS ALCOHOL MONITORING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A);
         (b)   A violation of a municipal OVI ordinance;
         (c)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in a case in which the offender
was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that section;
         (d)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(1) or R.C. § 2903.08 or a
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to either of those
divisions;
         (e)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4), R.C. §
2903.08(A)(2), or former R.C. § 2903.07, or a municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to any of those divisions or that former section, in a
case in which a judge or jury as the trier of fact found that the offender was
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         (f)   A violation of R.C. § 1547.11(A);
         (g)   A violation of a municipal ordinance prohibiting a person from
operating or being in physical control of any vessel underway or from
manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar device on the waters of this
state while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination
of them or prohibiting a person from operating or being in physical control of
any vessel underway or from manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar
device on the waters of this state with a prohibited concentration of alcohol,
a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine;
         (h)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or R.C. § 1547.11(A);
         (i)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or R.C. § 1547.11(A).
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE THAT IS VEHICLE-RELATED. Means an equivalent offense
that is any of the following:
         (a)   A violation described in division (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e) of
the definition for “equivalent offense” provided in this division (N);
         (b)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A);
         (c)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A).
      JAIL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Means the mandatory term in jail of 3, 6, 10, 20,
30, or 60 days that must be imposed under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a), (G)(1)(b),
or (G)(1)(c) upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of that
section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to R.C. §§ 2929.21
through 2929.28 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY TERM OF LOCAL INCARCERATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2929.01.
      MUNICIPAL OVI ORDINANCE and MUNICIPAL OVI OFFENSE. Mean any municipal
ordinance prohibiting a person from operating a vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or prohibiting
a person from operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
      PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
(R.C. § 4511.181)
Cross-reference:
   Endangering children, see § 135.14
   Power to suspend driver’s license, see §
33.05
Statutory reference:
   Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see R.C. § 4510.13
   Trial judge to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. § 4510.05
§ 72.46 RECKLESS OPERATION ON STREETS, PUBLIC, OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any street or highway in willful
or wanton disregard of the safety of persons or property. (R.C. § 4511.20)
   (B)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any public or private property
other than streets or highways, in willful or wanton disregard of the safety of
persons or property. This section does not apply to the competitive operation
of vehicles on public or private property when the owner of the property
knowingly permits the operation thereon.
(R.C. § 4511.201)
(Ord. 2376, passed 4-12-83) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.47 MAXIMUM SPEED LIMITS; ASSURED CLEAR DISTANCE AHEAD.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater or less
than is reasonable or proper, having due regard for the traffic, surface, and
width of the street or highway and any other conditions, and no person shall
drive any motor vehicle in and upon any street or highway at a greater speed
than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
   (B)   It is prima facie lawful, in the absence of a lower limit declared or
established pursuant to this section by the Director of Transportation or local
authorities, for the operator of a motor vehicle to operate the same at a speed
not exceeding the following:
      (1)   (a)   Twenty miles per hour in school zones during school recess
and while children are going to or leaving school during the opening or closing
hours, and when 20 miles per hour school speed limit signs are erected, except
that on controlled-access highways and expressways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by division (B)(4) of this section, and on freeways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by divisions (B)(10) and (B)(11) of this section. The end of every school zone
may be marked by a sign indicating the end of the zone. Nothing in this section
or in the Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control
Devices shall be construed to require school zones to be indicated by signs
equipped with flashing or other lights, or giving other special notice of the
hours in which the school zone speed limit is in effect.
         (b)   As used in this section, SCHOOL means all of the following:
            1.   Any school chartered under R.C. § 3301.16;
            2.   Any nonchartered school that during the preceding year filed
with the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce in compliance with O.A.C. §
3301-35-08, a copy of the school’s report for the parents of the school’s
pupils certifying that the school meets state minimum standards for
nonchartered, nontax-supported schools and presents evidence of this filing to
the jurisdiction from which it is requesting the establishment of a school
zone;
            3.   Any special elementary school that in writing requests the
County Engineer to create a school zone at the location of the school. Upon
receipt of such written request, the County Engineer shall create a school zone
at that location by erecting appropriate signs;
            4.   Any preschool education program operated by an educational
service center that is located on a street or highway with a speed limit of 45
miles per hour or more, when the educational service center in writing requests
that the County Engineer create a school zone at the location of that program.
Upon receipt of such a written request, the County Engineer shall create a
school zone at that location by erecting the appropriate signs.
         (c)   As used in this section, SCHOOL ZONE means that portion of a
street or highway passing a school fronting upon the street or highway that is
encompassed by projecting the school property lines to the fronting street or
highway, and also includes that portion of a state highway. Upon request from
local authorities for streets and highways under their jurisdiction and that
portion of a state highway under the jurisdiction of the Director of
Transportation or a request from a County Engineer in the case of a school zone
for a special elementary school, the Director may extend the traditional school
zone boundaries. The distances in divisions (B)(1)(c)1. through (B)(1)(c)3.
below shall not exceed 300 feet per approach per direction, and are bounded by
whichever of the following distances or combination thereof the Director
approves as most appropriate:
            1.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school building
lines normal to the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            2.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school property
lines intersecting the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            3.   The distance encompassed by the special marking of the
pavement for a principal school pupil
crosswalk plus a distance of 300 feet on each approach direction of the
highway.
         (d)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the
Director’s initial action on August 9, 1976, establishing all school zones at
the traditional school zone boundaries defined by projecting school property
lines, except when those boundaries are extended as provided in divisions (B)
(1)(a) and (B)(1)(c) of this section.
         (e)   As used in this division, CROSSWALK has the meaning given that
term in R.C. § 4511.01(LL)(2).
         (f)   The Director may, upon request by resolution of the Legislative
Authority and upon submission by the municipality of such engineering, traffic,
and other information as the Director considers necessary, designate a school
zone on any portion of a state route lying within the municipality that
includes a crosswalk customarily used by children going to or leaving a school
during recess and opening and closing hours, whenever the distance, as measured
in a straight line, from the school property line nearest the crosswalk to the
nearest point of a crosswalk is no more than 1,320 feet. Such a school zone
shall include the distance encompassed by the crosswalk and extending 300 feet
in each appropriate direction of the state route.
         (g)   As used in this section, SPECIAL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL means a
school that meets all of the following:
            1.   It is not chartered and does not receive tax revenue from any
source.
            2.   It does not educate children beyond the eighth grade.
            3.   It is located outside the limits of a municipal corporation.
            4.   A majority of the total number of students enrolled at the
school are not related by blood.
            5.   The principal or other person in charge of the special
elementary school annually sends a report to the superintendent of the school
district in which the special elementary school is located indicating the total
number of students enrolled at the school, but otherwise the principal or other
person in charge does not report any other information or data to the
superintendent.
      (2)   Twenty-five miles per hour in all other portions of the
municipality, except on state routes outside business districts, through
highways outside business districts, and alleys;
      (3)   Thirty-five miles per hour on all state routes or through highways
within the municipality outside business districts, except as provided in
divisions (B)(4) and (B)(6) of this section;
      (4)   Fifty miles per hour on controlled-access highways and expressways
within the municipality, except as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)
(14), (B)(15), and (B)(16) of this section;
      (5)   Fifty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality,
other than highways within island jurisdictions as provided in division (B)(8)
of this section, highways as provided in divisions (B)(9) and (B)(10) of this
section, and highways, expressways and freeways as provided in divisions (B)
(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), and (B)(16) of this section;
      (6)   Fifty miles per hour on state routes within the municipality
outside urban districts unless a lower prima facie speed is established as
further provided in this section;
      (7)   Fifteen miles per hour on all alleys within the municipality;
      (8)   Thirty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality
that are within an island jurisdiction;
      (9)   Thirty-five miles per hour on through highways, except state
routes, that are outside municipal corporations and that are within a national
park with boundaries extending through two or more counties;
      (10)   Sixty miles per hour on two-lane state routes outside municipal
corporations as established by the Director under R.C. § 4511.21(H)(2);
      (11)   Fifty-five miles per hour on freeways with paved shoulders inside
the municipality, other than freeways as provided in divisions (B)(14) and (B)
(16) of this section;
      (12)   Sixty miles per hour on rural expressways with traffic control
signals and on all portions of rural divided highways, except as provided in
divisions (B)(13) and (B)(14) of this section;
      (13)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all rural expressways without traffic
control signals;
      (14)   Seventy miles per hour on all rural freeways;
      (15)   Fifty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways in congested areas as determined by the Director and that are
located within a municipal corporation or within an interstate freeway
outerbelt, except as provided in division (B)(16) of this section;
      (16)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways without traffic control signals in urbanized areas.
   (C)   It is prima facie unlawful for any person to exceed any of the speed
limitations in divisions (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)
(8) and (B)(9) of this section or any declared or established pursuant to this
section by the Director or local authorities and it is unlawful for any person
to exceed any of the speed limitations in division (D) of this section. No
person shall be convicted of more than one violation of this section for the
same conduct, although violations of more than one provision of this section
may be charged in the alternative in a single affidavit.
   (D)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon a street or highway as
follows:
      (1)   At a speed exceeding 55 miles per hour, except upon a two-lane
state route as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway,
expressway or freeway as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), and
(B)(16) of this section;
      (2)   At a speed exceeding 60 miles per hour upon a two-lane state route
as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway as provided
in division (B)(12) of this section;
      (3)   At a speed exceeding 65 miles per hour upon an expressway as
provided in division (B)(13) of this section or upon a freeway as provided in
division (B)(16) of this section, except upon a freeway as provided in division
(B)(14) of this section;
      (4)   At a speed exceeding 70 miles per hour upon a freeway as provided
in division (B)(14) of this section;
      (5)   At a speed exceeding the posted speed limit upon a highway,
expressway or freeway for which the Director has determined and declared a
speed limit pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(I)(2) or (L)(2).
   (E)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(E), in every charge of violating this
section, the affidavit and warrant shall specify the time, place and speed at
which the defendant is alleged to have driven, and in charges made in reliance
upon division (C) of this section also the speed which division (B)(1)(a), (B)
(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared
or established pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21 declares is prima
facie lawful at the time and place of such alleged violation, except that in
affidavits where a person is alleged to have driven at a greater speed than
will permit the person to bring the vehicle to stop within the assured clear
distance ahead, the affidavit and warrant need not specify the speed at which
the defendant is alleged to have driven.
   (F)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(F), when a speed in excess of both a prima
facie limitation and a limitation in division (D) of this section is alleged,
the defendant shall be charged in a single affidavit, alleging a single act,
with a violation indicated of both division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4),
(B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of this section, or of a limit declared or
established pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.21 by the Director or local
authorities, and of the limitation in division (D) of this section. If the
court finds a violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6),
(B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared or established pursuant to,
this section or R.C. § 4511.21 has occurred, it shall enter a judgment of
conviction under such division and dismiss the charge under division (D) of
this section. If it finds no violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3),
(B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared or established
pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21, it shall then consider whether the
evidence supports a conviction under division (D) of this section.
   (G)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(G), points shall be assessed for a
violation of a limitation under division (D) of this section in accordance with
R.C. § 4510.036.
(R.C. § 4511.21(A) - (G))
   (H)   Whenever, in accordance with R.C. § 4511.21(H) through (N), the
maximum prima facie speed limitations as established herein have been altered,
either higher or lower, and the appropriate signs giving notice have been
erected as required, operators of motor vehicles shall be governed by the speed
limitations set forth on such signs. It is prima facie unlawful for any person
to exceed the speed limits posted upon such signs.
   (I)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL BUS. Means a motor vehicle designed for carrying more than
nine passengers and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
      DIVIDED. Means a roadway having two or more travel lanes for vehicles
moving in opposite directions and that is separated by a median of more than
four feet, excluding turn lanes.
      INTERSTATE SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
      NONCOMMERCIAL BUS. Includes but is not limited to a school bus, or a
motor vehicle operated solely for the transportation of persons associated with
a charitable or nonprofit organization.
      OUTERBELT. A portion of a freeway that is part of the interstate system
and is located in the outer vicinity of a major municipal corporation or group
of municipal corporations, as designated by the Director.
      RURAL. Means an area outside urbanized areas and outside of a business or
urban district, and areas that extend within urbanized areas where the roadway
characteristics remain mostly unchanged from those outside the urbanized areas.
      URBANIZED AREA. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
(R.C. § 4511.21(O))
   (J)   Penalties.
      (1)   Divisions (A) through (I).
         (a)   A violation of any provision of divisions (A) through (I) of
this section is one of the following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (J)(1)(a)2., (J)(1)
(a)3., (J)(1)(b), and (J)(1)(c) of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of any provision of
divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any provision of
any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any provision
of that section, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of any
provision of divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any
provision of any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to
any provision of that section, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (b)   If the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of any provision of division (A) through (I) of this
section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any other municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any provision of that section, and operated a motor vehicle
faster than 35 miles an hour in a business district of the municipality, faster
than 50 miles an hour in other portions of the municipality, or faster than 35
miles an hour in a school zone during recess or while children are going to or
leaving school during the school’s opening or closing hours, a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
         (c)   Notwithstanding division (J)(1)(a) of this section, if the
offender operated a motor vehicle in a construction zone where a sign was then
posted in accordance with R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other
penalties provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times
the usual amount imposed for the violation. No court shall impose a fine of two
times the usual amount imposed for the violation upon an offender if the
offender alleges, in an affidavit filed with the court prior to the offender’s
sentencing, that the offender is indigent and is unable to pay the fine imposed
pursuant to this division and if the court determines that the offender is an
indigent person and unable to pay the fine.
         (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.21(P))
§ 72.48 SLOW SPEED; POSTED MINIMUM SPEEDS.
   (A)   No person shall stop or operate a vehicle at such an unreasonably slow
speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic,
except when stopping or reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or to
comply with law.
   (B)   Whenever the Director of Transportation or local authorities determine
on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that slow speeds on
any part of a controlled-access highway, expressway, or freeway consistently
impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, the Director or such
local authority may declare a minimum speed limit below which no person shall
operate a motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe operation or in
compliance with the law. No minimum speed limit established hereunder shall be
less than 30 miles per hour, greater than 50 miles per hour, nor effective
until the provisions of R.C. § 4511.21 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, relating to appropriate signs, have been fulfilled and local
authorities have obtained the approval of the Director.
   (C)   In a case involving a violation of this section, the trier of fact, in
determining whether the vehicle was being operated at an unreasonably slow
speed, shall consider the capabilities of the vehicle and its operator.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.22)
§ 72.49 SPEED LIMITATIONS OVER BRIDGES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle over any bridge or other
elevated structure constituting a part of a highway at a speed which is greater
than the maximum speed that can be maintained with safety to such bridge or
structure, when such structure is posted with signs as provided in this
section.
      (2)   The Department of Transportation upon request from any local
authority shall, or upon its own initiative may, conduct an investigation of
any bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part of a highway, and if
it finds that such structure cannot with safety withstand traffic traveling at
the speed otherwise permissible under this Traffic Code, the Department shall
determine and declare the maximum speed of traffic which such structure can
withstand, and shall cause or permit suitable signs stating such maximum speed
to be erected and maintained at a distance of a least 100 feet before each end
of the structure.
      (3)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of this
section, proof of such determination of the maximum speed by the Department and
the existence of such signs shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.23) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.50 SPEED EXCEPTIONS FOR EMERGENCY OR SAFETY VEHICLES.
   The prima facie speed limitations set forth in §
72.47 do not apply to emergency vehicles or public safety vehicles when they
are responding to emergency calls and are equipped with and displaying at least
one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under normal atmospheric
conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle and when the
drivers thereof sound audible signals by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle. This
section does not relieve the driver of an emergency vehicle or public safety
vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons
using the street or highway.
(R.C. § 4511.24)
§ 72.51 STREET RACING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section and in R.C. §§ 4507.021 and 4507.16, STREET
RACING means the operation of 2 or more vehicles from a point side by side at
accelerating speeds in a competitive attempt to out-distance each other or the
operation of one or more vehicles over a common selected course, from the same
point to the same point, wherein timing is made of the participating vehicle
involving competitive accelerations or speeds.
   (B)   Persons rendering assistance in any manner to the competitive use of
vehicles shall be equally charged as the participants.
   (C)   The operation of 2 or more vehicles side by side either at speeds in
excess of prima facie lawful speeds established by §
72.47 or rapidly accelerating from a common starting point to a speed in excess
of such prima-facie lawful speeds shall be prima-facie evidence of street
racing.
   (D)   No person shall participate in street racing upon any public road,
street or highway in this municipality.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of street racing, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to any other sanctions, the court
shall suspend the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident operating
privilege for not less than thirty days or more than three years. No judge
shall suspend the first thirty days of any suspension of an offender’s license,
permit, or privilege imposed under this subsection.
(ORC 4511.251)
§ 72.52 TEXTING WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, highway, or
property open to the public for vehicular traffic while using, holding, or
physically supporting with any part of the person’s body an electronic wireless
communications device.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device to make
contact, for emergency purposes, with a law enforcement agency, hospital or
health care provider, fire department, or other similar emergency agency or
entity;
      (2)   A person driving a public safety vehicle while using an electronic
wireless communications device in the course of the person’s duties;
      (3)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device when
the person’s motor vehicle is in a stationary position and is outside a lane of
travel, at a traffic control signal that is currently directing traffic to
stop, or parked on a road or highway due to an emergency or road closure;
      (4)   A person using and holding an electronic wireless communications
device directly near the person’s ear for the purpose of making, receiving, or
conducting a telephone call, provided that the person does not manually enter
letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
      (5)   A person receiving wireless messages on an electronic wireless
communications device regarding the operation or navigation of a motor vehicle;
safety-related information, including emergency, traffic, or weather alerts; or
data used primarily by the motor vehicle, provided that the person does not
hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body;
      (6)   A person using the speaker phone function of the electronic
wireless communications device, provided that the person does not hold or
support the device with any part of the person’s body;
      (7)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
navigation purposes, provided that the person does not do either of the
following during the use:
         (a)   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
         (b)   Hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body;
      (8)   A person using a feature or function of the electronic wireless
communications device with a single touch or single swipe, provided that the
person does not do either of the following during the use:
         (a)   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
         (b)   Hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body;
      (9)   A person operating a commercial truck while using a mobile data
terminal that transmits and receives data;
      (10)   A person operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or
on behalf of a utility, if the person is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage, or circumstance that affects the health or safety of individuals;
      (11)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device in
conjunction with a voice-operated or hands-free feature or function of the
vehicle or of the device without the use of either hand except to activate,
deactivate, or initiate the feature or function with a single touch or swipe,
provided the person does not hold or support the device with any part of the
person’s body;
      (12)   A person using technology that physically or electronically
integrates the device into the motor vehicle, provided that the person does not
do either of the following during the use:
         (a)   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
         (b)   Hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body.
      (13)   A person storing an electronic wireless communications device in a
holster, harness, or article of clothing on the person’s body.
   (C)   If a law enforcement officer issues an offender a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of division (A) of this section, the officer shall do
both of the following:
      (1)   Report the issuance of the ticket, citation, or summons to the
officer’s law enforcement agency;
      (2)   Ensure that such report indicates the offender’s race.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of operating a
motor vehicle while using an electronic wireless communication device, an
unclassified misdemeanor, and shall be punished as provided in divisions (D)(1)
to (D)(5) of this section.
      (1)   The offender shall be fined, and is subject to a suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege, as follows:
         (a)   Except as provided in divisions (D)(1)(b), (D)(1)(c), (D)(1)(d),
and (D)(2) of this section, the court shall impose upon the offender a fine of
not more than $150.
         (b)   If, within two years of the violation, the offender has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one prior violation of this section, R.C. §
4511.204, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court shall
impose upon the offender a fine of not more than $250.
         (c)   If, within two years of the violation, the offender has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more prior violations of this section,
R.C. § 4511.204, or a substantially equivalent or municipal ordinance, the
court shall impose upon the offender a fine of not more than $500. The court
also may impose a suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or
nonresident operating privilege for 90 days.
         (d)   Notwithstanding divisions (D)(1)(a) to (D)(1)(c) of this
section, if the offender was operating the motor vehicle at the time of the
violation in a construction zone where a sign was posted in accordance with
R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other penalties provided by law,
shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times the amount imposed for the
violation under division (D)(1)(a), (D)(1)(b), or (D)(1)(c) of this section, as
applicable.
      (2)   If the offender is in the category of offenders to whom division
(D)(1)(a) of this section applies, in lieu of payment of the fine of $150 under
division (D)(1)(a) of this section and the assessment of points under division
(D)(4) of this section, the offender instead may elect to attend the distracted
driving safety course, as described in R.C. § 4511.991. If the offender attends
and successfully completes the course, the offender shall be issued written
evidence that the offender successfully completed the course. The offender
shall not be required to pay the fine and shall not have the points assessed
against that offender’s driver’s license if the offender submits the written
evidence to the court within 90 days of the violation of division (A) of this
section. However, successful completion of the course does not result in a
dismissal of the charges for the violation, and the violation is a prior
offense under divisions (D)(1)(b) and (D)(1)(c) of this section if the offender
commits a subsequent violation or violations of division (A) of this section
within two years of the offense for which the course was completed. This
division does not apply with respect to any offender in the category of
offenders to whom division (D)(1)(b), (D)(1)(c), or (D)(1)(d) of this section
applies.
      (3)   The court may impose any other penalty authorized under R.C. §§
2929.21 to 2929.28. However, the court shall not impose a fine or a suspension
not otherwise specified in division (D)(1) of this section. The court also
shall not impose a jail term or community residential sanction.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) of this section, points shall
be assessed for a violation of division (A) of this section in accordance with
R.C. § 4510.036.
      (5)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense as a
strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict
liability offense.
   (E)   A prosecution for an offense in violation of this section does not
preclude a prosecution for an offense in violation of R.C. § 4511.204 based on
the same conduct. However, the two offenses are allied offenses of similar
import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (F)   (1)   A law enforcement officer does not have probable cause and shall
not stop the operator of a motor vehicle for purposes of enforcing this section
unless the officer visually observes the operator using, holding, or physically
supporting with any part of the person’s body the electronic wireless
communications device.
      (2)   A law enforcement officer who stops the operator of a motor vehicle
for a violation of division (A) of this section shall inform the operator that
the operator may decline a search of the operator’s electronic wireless
communications device. The officer shall not do any of the following:
         (a)   Access the device without a warrant, unless the operator
voluntarily and unequivocally gives consent for the officer to access the
device;
         (b)   Confiscate the device while awaiting the issuance of a warrant
to access the device;
         (c)   Obtain consent from the operator to access the device through
coercion or any other improper means. Any consent by the operator to access the
device shall be voluntary and unequivocal before the officer may access the
device without a warrant.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Includes any of the following:
         (a)   A wireless telephone;
         (b)   A text-messaging device;
         (c)   A personal digital assistant;
         (d)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
         (e)   Any device capable of displaying a video, movie, broadcast
television image, or visual image;
         (f)   Any other substantially similar wireless device that is designed
or used to communicate text, initiate or receive communication, or exchange
information or data.
      An “electronic wireless communications device” does not include a two-
way radio transmitter or receiver used by a person who is licensed by the
federal communications commission to participate in the amateur radio service.
      UTILITY. An entity specified in R.C. § 4905.03(A), (C), (D), (E), or (G).
      UTILITY SERVICE VEHICLE. A vehicle owned or operated by a utility.
      VOICE-OPERATED OR HANDS-FREE FEATURE OR FUNCTION. A feature or function
that allows a person to use an electronic wireless communications device
without the use of either hand, except to activate, deactivate, or initiate the
feature or function with a single touch or single swipe.
(R.C. § 4511.204)
Statutory reference:
   No preemption for local regulations imposing greater penalties, see R.C. §
4511.204(E)
LICENSING; ACCIDENTS
§ 72.55 DRIVER'S LICENSE OR COMMERCIAL DRIVER'S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   No person, except those expressly exempted under Ohio R.C.
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public
road or highway or any public or private property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking in this Municipality unless the person
has a valid driver's license issued under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507 or a
commercial driver's license issued under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4506.
      (2)   No person, except a person expressly exempted under Ohio R.C.
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motorcycle upon a public road
or highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking in this Municipality unless the person has a valid
license as a motorcycle operator that was issued upon application by the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507. The license shall be
in the form of an endorsement, as determined by the Registrar, upon a driver’s
or commercial driver’s license, if the person has a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle, or in the form of a restricted
license as provided in Ohio R.C. 4507.14, if the person does not have a valid
license to operate a motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a
noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a
noncertified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of subsection (A)(1) or (2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima-facie evidence that the person did not have either a valid
driver's or commercial driver's license at the time of the alleged violation of
subsection (A)(1) of this section or a valid license as a motorcycle operator
either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver's or commercial driver's
license or a restricted license at the time of the alleged violation of
subsection (A)(2) of this section. The person charged with a violation of
subsection (A)(1) or (2) of this section may offer evidence to rebut this
prima-facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or motorcycle without a valid license and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   If the trier of fact finds that the offender never has held a valid
driver's or commercial driver's license issued by this state or any other
jurisdiction, or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the
offender, if the offender has never held a valid license as a motorcycle
operator, either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver's or commercial
driver's license or in the form of a restricted license, except as otherwise
provided in this subsection, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.26; notwithstanding division
(A)(2)(a) of Ohio R.C. 2929.28, the offender may be fined up to one thousand
dollars ($1,000); and, notwithstanding division (A)(3) of Ohio R.C. 2929.27,
the offender may be ordered pursuant to division (C) of that section to serve a
term of community service of up to five hundred hours. The failure of an
offender to complete a term of community service imposed by the court may be
punished as indirect criminal contempt under division (A) of Ohio R.C. 2705.02
that may be filed in the underlying case. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of Ohio R.C. 4510.12 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender's driver's or commercial driver's license or permit
or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the offender, the
offender's driver's or commercial driver's license bearing the motorcycle
endorsement or the offender's restricted license was expired at the time of the
offense, except as otherwise provided in this subsection, the offense is a
minor misdemeanor. If, within three years of the offense, the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of
Ohio R.C. 4510.12 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the
offense is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   The court shall not impose a license suspension for a first violation
of this section or if more than three years have passed since the offender's
last violation of Ohio R.C. 4510.12 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (E)   If the offender is sentenced under subsection (C)(2) hereof, if within
three years of the offense the offender previously was convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one or more violations of Ohio R.C. 4510.12 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and if the offender's license was expired for
more than six months at the time of the offense, the court may impose a class
seven suspension of the offender's driver's license, commercial driver's
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in division (A)(7) of Ohio R.C.
4510.02. (ORC 4510.12)
§ 72.56 PERMITTING OPERATION WITHOUT VALID LICENSE; ONE LICENSE PERMITTED.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   No person shall permit the operation of a motor vehicle
upon any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking, knowing the operator does not have a valid
driver’s license issued to the operator by the Registrar of Motor Vehicle or a
deputy registrar under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid commercial driver’s license
issued under R.C. Chapter 4506. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
whoever violates this division is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   No person shall receive a driver’s license, or a motorcycle
operator’s endorsement of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card unless and until the person
surrenders to the Registrar or a deputy registrar all valid licenses, temporary
instruction permits, and identification cards issued to the person by another
jurisdiction recognized by this state.
      (3)   The Registrar shall report the cancellation of a license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card to the issuing authority, together
with information that the license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card is now issued in this state. The Registrar or a deputy
registrar shall destroy any such license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (4)   No person shall possess more than one valid license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card at any time.
(R.C. § 4507.02(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty
otherwise is provided in the section that contains the provision violated is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.99)
§ 72.561 OHIO DRIVER'S LICENSE REQUIRED FOR IN STATE RESIDENTS.
   (A)   Any person who becomes a resident of this state, within 30 days of
becoming a resident, shall surrender any driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card issued by another state to the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a deputy registrar. If such a person intends to
operate a motor vehicle upon the public roads or highways, the person shall
apply for a temporary instruction permit or driver’s license in this state. If
the person fails to apply for a driver’s license or temporary instruction
permit or within 30 days of becoming a resident, the person shall not operate
any motor vehicle in this state under a license or permit issued by another
state.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates subsection (A) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   The offense established under subsection (B)(1) of this section is
a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state for
purposes of Ohio R.C. 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
   (C)   For purposes of subsection (A) of this section, "resident" means any
person to whom any of the following applies:
      (1)   The person maintains their principal residence in this State and
does not reside in this State as a result of the person's active service in the
United States Armed Forces.
      (2)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to be a
resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under Ohio R.C.
4507.01.
(R.C. § 4507.213)
§ 72.57 DRIVING WITH TEMPORARY INSTRUCTION PERMIT; CURFEW.
   (A)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under Ohio R.C.
4507.05(A) shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
in violation of the following conditions:
      (1)   If the permit is issued to a person who is at least fifteen years
six months of age, but less than sixteen years of age:
         (a)   The permit and identification card are in the holder’s immediate
possession;
         (b)   The holder is accompanied by an eligible adult who actually
occupies the seat beside the permit holder and does not have a prohibited
concentration of alcohol in the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or
urine as provided in Ohio R.C. 4511.19(A);
         (c)   The total number of occupants of the vehicle does not exceed the
total number of occupant restraining devices originally installed in the motor
vehicle by its manufacturer, and each occupant of the vehicle is wearing all of
the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
      (2)   If the permit is issued to a person who is at least sixteen years
of age:
         (a)   The permit and identification card are in the holder’s immediate
possession;
         (b)   The holder is accompanied by a licensed operator who is at least
twenty-one years of age and is actually occupying a seat beside the driver and
does not have a prohibited concentration of alcohol in the whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine as provided in Ohio R.C. 4511.19(A);
         (c)   The total number of occupants of the vehicle does not exceed the
total number of occupant restraining devices originally installed in the motor
vehicle by its manufacturer, and each occupant of the vehicle is wearing all of
the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
   (B)   Except as provided in subsection (B) hereof, no holder of a temporary
instruction permit that is issued under Ohio R.C. 4507.05(A) and that is issued
on or after July 1, 1998, and who has not attained the age of eighteen years,
shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or private property
used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking between the
hours of midnight and six a.m.
   The holder of a permit issued under Ohio R.C. 4507.05(A) on or after July 1,
1998, who has not attained the age of eighteen years, may operate a motor
vehicle upon a highway or any public or private property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking between the hours of midnight and six
a.m. if, at the time of such operation, the holder is accompanied by the
holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian, and the parent, guardian or custodian
holds a current valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license issued by this
State and is actually occupying a seat beside the permit holder, and does not
have a prohibited concentration of alcohol in the whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, or urine as provided in Section
72.45(A).
   (C)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Eligible adult” means any of the following:
         (a)   An instructor of a driver education course approved by the
Department of Education or a driver training course approved by the Department
of Public Safety;
         (b)   Any of the following persons who holds a current valid driver’s
or commercial driver’s license issued by this State:
            1.   A parent, guardian or custodian of the permit holder;
            2.   A person twenty-one years of age or older who acts in loco
parentis of the permit holder.
      (2)   “Occupant restraining device” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
4513.263.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. (ORC
4507.05)
§ 72.571 DRIVING WITH PROBATIONARY LICENSE; CURFEW.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   No holder of a probationary driver's license who has held
the license for less than twelve months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a
highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking between the hours of midnight and six a.m. unless
the holder is accompanied by the holder's parent or guardian.
         (b)   No holder of a probationary driver's license who has held the
license for twelve months or longer shall operate a motor vehicle upon a
highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking between the hours of one a.m. and five a.m. unless
the holder is accompanied by the holder's parent or guardian.
      (2)   (a)   Subject to subsection (C)(1) of this section, subsection (A)
(1)(a) of this section does not apply to the holder of a probationary driver's
license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of midnight and
six a.m. provided that the holder has in the holder's immediate possession
written documentation from the holder's employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of midnight and six a.m., provided
that the holder has in the holder's immediate possession written documentation
from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of midnight and six a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder's
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
         (b)   Subsection (A)(1)(b) of this section does not apply to the
holder of a probationary driver's license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of one a.m. and
five a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder's immediate possession
written documentation from the holder's employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of one a.m. and five a.m., provided
that the holder has in the holder's immediate possession written documentation
from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of one a.m. and five a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder's
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
      (3)   An employer, school official or official affiliated with a
religious event is not liable in damages in a civil action for any injury,
death or loss to person or property that allegedly arises from, or is related
to, the fact that the employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event provided the holder of a probationary driver's license with the
written documentation described in subsection (A)(2) of this section.
         The Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall make available at no cost a form
to serve as the written documentation described in subsection (A)(2) of this
section, and employers, school officials, officials affiliated with religious
events, and holders of probationary driver's licenses may utilize that form or
may choose to utilize any other written documentation to meet the requirements
of that subsection.
      (4)   No holder of a probationary driver's license who has held the
license for less than twelve months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a
highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking with more than one person who is not a family
member occupying the vehicle unless the probationary license holder is
accompanied by the probationary license holder's parent, guardian or custodian.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of subsection (A)(1)(a) or
(b) of this section if, at the time of the violation, an emergency existed that
required the holder of the probationary driver's license to operate a motor
vehicle in violation of subsection (A)(1)(a) or (b) of this section; or the
holder was an emancipated minor.
   (C)   (1)   If a person is issued a probationary driver's license prior to
attaining the age of seventeen years and the person pleads guilty to, is
convicted of, or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a moving
violation during the six-month period commencing on the date on which the
person is issued the probationary driver's license, the court with jurisdiction
over the violation may order that the holder must be accompanied by the
holder's parent or guardian whenever the holder is operating a motor vehicle
upon a highway or any public or private property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking for a period not to exceed six months
or the date the holder attains the age of seventeen years, whichever occurs
first.
      (2)   Any person who is subject to the operating restrictions established
under subsection (C)(1) of this section as a result of a first moving violation
may petition the court for driving privileges without being accompanied by the
holder's parent or guardian during the period of time determined by the court
under that subsection. In granting the driving privileges, the court shall
specify the purposes of the privileges and shall issue the person appropriate
forms setting forth the privileges granted. If a person is convicted of, pleads
guilty to, or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a second or
subsequent moving violation, the court with jurisdiction over the violation may
terminate any driving privileges previously granted under this division.
      (3)   No person shall violate any operating restriction imposed under
subsection (C)(1) or (2) of this section.
   (D)   No holder of a probationary license shall operate a motor vehicle upon
a highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking unless the total number of occupants of the vehicle
does not exceed the total number of occupant restraining devices originally
installed in the motor vehicle by its manufacturer, and each occupant of the
vehicle is wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted
occupant restraining device.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether each occupant of the motor vehicle is wearing all of the
available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device as
required by subsection (d) hereof, or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket,
citation, or summons if the requirement in that subsection has been or is being
violated, or for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person
for a violation of that requirement.
   (F)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of subsection (A)(1)(a) or (b) hereof has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for such a violation or for causing the arrest of or commencing a
prosecution of a person for such violation.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Occupant restraining device” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
4513.263.
      (2)   “Family member” of a probationary license holder includes any of
the following:
         (a)   A spouse;
         (b)   A child or stepchild;
         (c)   A parent, stepparent, grandparent, or parent-in-law;
         (d)   An aunt or uncle;
         (e)   A sibling, whether or the whole or half blood or by adoption, a
brother-in-law or a sister-in-law;
         (f)   A son or daughter of the probationary license holder’s
stepparent if the stepparent has not adopted the probationary license holder;
         (g)   An eligible adult, as defined in Ohio R.C. 4507.05.
      (3)   “Moving violation” means any violation of any statute or ordinance
that regulates the operation of vehicles, streetcars, or trackless trolleys on
the highways or streets. “Moving violation” does not include a violation of
Ohio R.C. 4513.263 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a
violation of any statute or ordinance regulating pedestrians or the parking of
vehicles, vehicle size or load limitations, vehicle fitness requirements or
vehicle registration.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4507.071)
§ 72.572 USE OF ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICE PROHIBITED WHILE
DRIVING.
   (A)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit who has not attained the
age of 18 years and no holder of a probationary driver’s license shall drive a
motor vehicle on any street, highway, or property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking while using in any manner an
electronic wireless communications device.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to either of the
following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a law enforcement
agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department, or other similar
emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device whose
motor vehicle is in a stationary position and the motor vehicle is outside a
lane of travel;
      (3)   A person using a navigation device in a voice-operated or hands-
free manner who does not manipulate the device while driving.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A) of this section shall be fined $150. In addition, the
court shall impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license
or permit for a definite period of 60 days.
      (2)   If the person previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or
a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section, whoever violates
this section shall be fined $300. In addition, the court shall impose a class
seven suspension of the person’s driver’s license or permit for a definite
period of one year.
   (D)   The filing of a sworn complaint against a person for a violation of
this section does not preclude the filing of a sworn complaint for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct. However, if a person is adjudicated a
delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section
and is also adjudicated a delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a
violation of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct, the two offenses are allied
offenses of similar import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (E)   As used in this section, ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE
includes any of the following:
      (1)   A wireless telephone;
      (2)   A personal digital assistant;
      (3)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
      (4)   A text-messaging device;
      (5)   Any other substantially similar electronic wireless device that is
designed or used to communicate via voice, image, or written word.
(R.C. § 4511.205)
§ 72.58 CERTAIN ACTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Display, or cause or permit to be displayed, or possess any
identification card, driver's or commercial driver's license, temporary
instruction permit or commercial driver's license temporary instruction permit
knowing the same to be fictitious, or to have been canceled, suspended or
altered;
      (2)   Lend to a person not entitled thereto, or knowingly permit a person
not entitled thereto to use any identification card, driver's or commercial
driver's license, temporary instruction permit or commercial driver's license
temporary instruction permit issued to the person so lending or permitting the
use thereof;
      (3)   Display or represent as one's own, any identification card,
driver's or commercial driver's license, temporary instruction permit or
commercial driver's license temporary instruction permit not issued to the
person so displaying the same;
      (4)   Fail to surrender to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, upon the
Registrar’s demand, any identification card, driver's or commercial driver's
license, temporary instruction permit or commercial driver's license temporary
instruction permit that has been suspended or canceled;
      (5)   In any application for an identification card, driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or any renewal, reprint, or
duplicate thereof, knowingly conceal a material fact or present any physician’s
statement required under R.C. § 4507.08 or 4507.081 when knowing the same to be
false or fictitious.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC 4507.30)
§ 72.59 WRONGFUL ENTRUSTMENT OF A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall permit a motor vehicle owned by the person or under
the person’s control to be driven by another if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person does not have a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or valid nonresident driving privileges.
      (2)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privileges have been suspended or canceled under Ohio R.C. Chapter
4510, or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code or this Traffic Code.
      (3)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving the motor vehicle would violate any prohibition
contained in Ohio R.C. Chapter 4509.
      (4)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving would violate Ohio R.C. 4511.19 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (5)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
vehicle is the subject of an immobilization waiver order issued under Ohio R.C.
4503.235 and the other person is prohibited from operating the vehicle under
that order.
   (B)   Without limiting or precluding the consideration of any other evidence
in determining whether a violation of subsection (A)(1), (2), (3), or (4) of
this section has occurred, it shall be prima-facie evidence that the offender
knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the operator of the motor vehicle
owned by the offender or under the offender’s control is in a category
described in subsection (A)(1), (2), (3) or (4) of this section if any of the
following applies:
      (1)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
subsection (A)(1) or (3) of this section, the offender and the operator of the
motor vehicle reside in the same household and are related by consanguinity or
affinity.
      (2)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
subsection (A)(2) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle reside in the same household, and the offender knows or has reasonable
cause to believe that the operator has been charged with or convicted of any
violation of law or ordinance, or has committed any other act or omission, that
would or could result in the suspension or cancellation of the operator’s
license, permit or privilege.
      (3)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
subsection (A)(4) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle occupied the motor vehicle together at the time of the offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of wrongful entrustment of a
motor vehicle and shall be punished as provided in subsections (C) to (H) of
this section.
      (1)   Except as provided in subsection (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates subsection (A)(1), (2) or (3) of this section is guilty of an
unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the
offender shall be sentenced pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.21 to 2929.28, except
that the offender shall not be sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not
be sentenced to a community residential sanction pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.26;
notwithstanding division (A)(2)(a) of Ohio R.C. 2929.28, the offender may be
fined up to one thousand dollars ($1,000); and, notwithstanding division (A)(3)
of Ohio R.C. 2929.27, the offender may be ordered pursuant to division (C) of
that section to serve a term of community service of up to five hundred hours.
The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service imposed by
the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under division (A) of
Ohio R.C. 2705.02.
      (2)   A.   If, within three years of a violation of subsection (A)(1),
(2) or (3) of this section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or
been convicted of two or more violations of division (A)(1), (2) or (3) of Ohio
R.C. 4511.203 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         B.   Whoever violates subsection (A)(4) or (5) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   For any violation of this section, in addition to the penalties
imposed under Section 70.99, the court may impose a class seven suspension of
the offender's driver's license, commercial driver's license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in division (A)(7) of Ohio R.C. 4510.02, and, if the
vehicle involved in the offense is registered in the name of the offender, the
court may order one of the following:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (C)(3)(b) or (c). of
this section, the court may order, for thirty days, the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of that vehicle's license
plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and enforced under Ohio R.C.
4503.233.
         B.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of Ohio R.C. 4511.203 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the court may order, for sixty days, the immobilization of
the vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of that vehicle's
license plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and enforced under Ohio
R.C. 4503.233.
         C.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of Ohio R.C. 4511.203 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order the criminal forfeiture to
the state of the vehicle involved in the offense. If issued, the order shall be
issued and enforced under Ohio R.C. 4503.234.
            If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order for
criminal forfeiture under this subsection is assigned or transferred and
division (B)(2) or (3) of Ohio R.C. 4503.234 applies, in addition to or
independent of any other penalty established by law, the court may fine the
offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the national
automobile dealer's association. The proceeds from any fine imposed under this
subsection shall be distributed in accordance with division (C)(2) of Ohio R.C.
4503.234.
   (D)   If a court orders the immobilization of a vehicle under subsection (C)
of this section, the court shall not release the vehicle from the
immobilization before the termination of the period of immobilization ordered
unless the court is presented with current proof of financial responsibility
with respect to that vehicle.
   (E)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under
subsection (C) of this section, upon receipt of the order from the court,
neither the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor any deputy registrar shall accept
any application for the registration or transfer of registration of any motor
vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the order. The period of denial
shall be five years after the date the order is issued, unless, during that
five-year period, the court with jurisdiction of the offense that resulted in
the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar of the
termination. If the court terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar,
the Registrar shall take all necessary measures to permit the person to
register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to transfer the
registration of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section does not apply to motor vehicle rental dealers or motor
vehicle leasing dealers, as defined in Ohio R.C. 4549.65.
   (G)   Evidence of a conviction of, plea of guilty to, or adjudication as a
delinquent child for a violation of this section or a substantially similar
municipal ordinance shall not be admissible as evidence in any civil action
that involves the offender or delinquent child who is the subject of the
conviction, plea, or adjudication and that arises from the wrongful entrustment
of a motor vehicle.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, a vehicle is owned by a person if, at
the time of a violation of this section, the vehicle is registered in the
person’s name. (ORC 4511.203)
§ 72.60 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall display the operator's driver's
license, or furnish satisfactory proof that the operator has a driver's
license, upon demand of any peace officer or of any person damaged or injured
in any collision in which the licensee may be involved. When a demand is
properly made and the operator has the operator's driver's license on or about
the operator's person, the operator shall not refuse to display the license. A
person's failure to furnish satisfactory evidence that the person is licensed
under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507 when the person does not have the person's license
on or about the person's person shall be prima-facie evidence of the person's
not having obtained a driver's license.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in subsection (B)(2) hereof, whoever violates
this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an
unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to Ohio R.C.
2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be sentenced to a jail
term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community residential sanction
pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.26; notwithstanding division (A)(2)(a) of Ohio R.C.
2929.28, the offender may be fined up to one thousand dollars ($1,000); and,
notwithstanding division (A)(3) of Ohio R.C. 2929.27, the offender may be
ordered pursuant to division (C) of that section to serve a term of community
service of up to five hundred hours. The failure of an offender to complete a
term of community service imposed by the court may be punished as indirect
criminal contempt under division (A) of Ohio R.C. 2705.02 that may be filed in
the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of Ohio R.C.
4507.35 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. (ORC 4507.35)
§ 72.61 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR LICENSE RESTRICTION.
   (A)   Except as provided under subsection (B) hereof and Sections
 72.612 and
72.614, no person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege has been suspended under any provision of the
Ohio Revised Code, other than Ohio R.C. Chapter 4509, or under any applicable
law in any other jurisdiction in which the person’s license or permit was
issued shall operate any motor vehicle upon the public roads and highways or
upon any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking within this Municipality during the period of
suspension unless the person is granted limited driving privileges and is
operating the vehicle in accordance with the terms of the limited driving
privileges.
   (B)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any public
or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking in this Municipality in violation of any restriction of the person’s
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit imposed under division (D) of
Ohio R.C. 4506.10 or under Ohio R.C. 4507.14.
   (C)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a
noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a
noncertified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of subsection (A) or (B) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima-facie evidence that the license of the person was under
suspension at the time of the alleged violation of subsection (A) of this
section or the person operated a motor vehicle in violation of a restriction at
the time of the alleged violation of subsection (B) of this section. The person
charged with a violation of subsection (A) or (B) of this section may offer
evidence to rebut this prima-facie evidence.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates subsection (A) or (B) hereof, is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. The court may impose upon the offender a class
seven suspension of the offender's driver's license, commercial driver's
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in division (A)(7) of Ohio R.C.
4510.02.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in subsection (D)(2)(b) or (c) of this
section, the court, in addition to any other penalty that it imposes on the
offender and if the vehicle is registered in the offender's name and if, within
three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one violation of Ohio R.C. 4510.11 or Ohio R.C. 4510.111 or
4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in
addition to or independent of any other sentence that it imposes upon the
offender, may order the immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense
for thirty days and the impoundment of that vehicle's license plates for thirty
days in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4503.233.
         (b)   If the vehicle is registered in the offender's name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to two violations of Ohio R.C. 4510.11 or any combination
of two violations of Ohio R.C. 4510.11 or Ohio R.C. 4510.111 or 4510.16, or of
a substantially similar municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to any
other sentence that it imposes on the offender may order the immobilization of
the vehicle involved in the offense for sixty days and the impoundment of that
vehicle's license plates for sixty days in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4503.233.
         (c)   If the vehicle is registered in the offender's name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of Ohio R.C. 4510.11, or any
combination of three or more violations of Ohio R.C. 4501.11 or Ohio R.C.
4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a substantially similar municipal ordinance, the
court, in addition to any other sentence that it imposes on the offender may
order the criminal forfeiture of the vehicle involved in the offense to the
State.
   (E)   Any order for immobilization and impoundment under this section shall
be issued and enforced under Ohio R.C. 4503.233 and 4507.02 as applicable. The
court shall not release a vehicle from immobilization ordered under this
section unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
   (F)   Any order of criminal forfeiture under this section shall be issued
and enforced under Ohio R.C. 4503.234. Upon receipt of the copy of the order
from the court, neither the Ohio Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor a deputy
registrar shall accept any application for the registration or transfer of
registration of any motor vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the
declaration of forfeiture. The period of registration denial shall be five
years after the date of the order, unless, during that period, the court having
jurisdiction of the offense that lead to the order terminates the forfeiture
and notifies the Registrar of the termination. The Registrar shall then take
necessary measures to permit the person to register a vehicle owned or leased
by the person or to transfer registration of the vehicle.
   (G)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in Ohio R.C. 4509.01. If the offender fails to
provide that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to Ohio
R.C. 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000) for any
economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and
proximate result of the offender's operation of the vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under this
section. (ORC 4510.11)
   (H)   Any person whose driver's or commercial driver's license or permit or
nonresident operating privileges are suspended as a repeat traffic offender
under this section and who, during the suspension, operates any motor vehicle
upon any public roads and highways is guilty of driving under a twelve-point
suspension, a misdemeanor of the first degree. The court shall sentence the
offender to a minimum term of three days in jail. No court shall suspend the
first three days of jail time imposed pursuant to this subsection. (ORC
4510.037)
§ 72.611 DRIVING UNDER OVI SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege has been suspended under Ohio R.C. 4511.19,
4511.191, or 4511.196 or under Ohio R.C. 4510.07 for a conviction of a
violation of a municipal OVI ordinance shall operate any motor vehicle upon the
public roads or highways within this Municipality during the period of the
suspension.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of driving under OVI
suspension. The court shall sentence the offender under Ohio R.C. Chapter 2929,
subject to the differences authorized or required by this section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (B)(2) or (3) of this
section, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first degree. The
court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of three consecutive days. The three-day
term shall be imposed, unless, subject to subsection (C) of this section, the
court instead imposes a sentence of not less than thirty consecutive days of
house arrest with electronic monitoring. A period of house arrest with
electronic monitoring imposed under this subsection shall not exceed six
months. If the court imposes a mandatory three-day jail term under this
subsection, the court may impose a jail term in addition to that term, provided
that in no case shall the cumulative jail term imposed for the offense exceed
six months.
         (b)   A fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and
not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000).
         (c)   A license suspension under subsection (E) of this section.
      (2)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section or one
equivalent offense, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of ten consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in Ohio R.C. Chapter 2929, the court may sentence the
offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The ten-day mandatory
jail term shall be imposed unless, subject to subsection (C) of this section,
the court instead imposes a sentence of not less than ninety consecutive days
of house arrest with electronic monitoring. The period of house arrest with
electronic monitoring shall not exceed one year.
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines provided for in Ohio R.C. Chapter
2929, a fine of not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and not more than
two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500).
         (c)   A license suspension under subsection (E) of this section.
      (3)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or two or more equivalent offenses, driving under OVI suspension is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all
of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of thirty consecutive days.
Notwithstanding the jail terms provided in Ohio R.C. Chapter 2929, the court
may sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The
court shall not sentence the offender to a term of house arrest with electronic
monitoring in lieu of the mandatory portion of the jail term.
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines set forth in Ohio R.C. Chapter 2929, a
fine of not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and not more than two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500).
         (c)   A license suspension under subsection (E) of this section.
   (C)   No court shall impose an alternative sentence of house arrest with
electronic monitoring under subsection (B)(1) or (2) of this section unless,
within sixty days of the date of sentencing, the court issues a written finding
on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail where the
offender is required to serve the jail term imposed, the offender will not be
able to begin serving that term within the sixty-day period following the date
of sentencing.   An offender sentenced under this section to a period of house
arrest with electronic monitoring shall be permitted work release during that
period.
   (D)   Fifty per cent of any fine imposed by a court under subsection (B)(1),
(2) or (3) of this section shall be deposited into the county indigent drivers
alcohol treatment fund or municipal indigent drivers alcohol treatment fund
under the control of that court, as created by the county or municipal
corporation pursuant to division (H) of Ohio R.C. 4511.191.
   (E)   In addition to or independent of all other penalties provided by law
or ordinance, the trial judge of any court of record or the mayor of a mayor’s
court shall impose on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of this section a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in division (A)(7) of Ohio R.C. 4510.02.
   When permitted as specified in Ohio R.C. 4510.021, if the court grants
limited driving privileges during a suspension imposed under this section, the
privileges shall be granted on the additional condition that the offender must
display restricted license plates, issued under Ohio R.C. 4503.231, on the
vehicle driven subject to the privileges, except as provided in division (B) of
that section.
   A suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section shall be
concurrent with any period of suspension or disqualification under Ohio R.C.
3123.58 or 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from holding a
commercial driver’s license under Ohio R.C. 4506.16 shall be issued a driver’s
license under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the commercial
driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person whose
commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be issued a
driver’s license under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the
suspension. (ORC 4510.14)
   (F)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in Ohio R.C. 4509.01. If the offender fails to
provide that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to Ohio
R.C. 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000) for any
economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and
proximate result of the offender's operation of the vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree under
this section for which the offender is sentenced. (ORC 4510.14)
   (G)   (1)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of a
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to Ohio R.C. 4510.14, the
court, in addition to and independent of any sentence that it imposes upon the
offender for the offense, if the vehicle the offender was operating at the time
of the offense is registered in the offender's name, shall do whichever of the
following is applicable:
         (a)   If, within six years of the current offense, the offender has
not been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of Ohio R.C. 4510.14 or
former division (D)(2) of Ohio R.C. 4507.02, or a municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to that section or former division, the court shall
order the immobilization for thirty days of the vehicle involved in the offense
and the impoundment for thirty days of the license plates of that vehicle in
accordance with Ohio R.C. 4503.233.
         (b)   If, within six years of the current offense, the offender has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of Ohio R.C. 4510.14 or
former division (D)(2) of Ohio R.C. 4507.02, or a municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to that section or former division, the court shall
order the immobilization for sixty days of the vehicle involved in the offense
and the impoundment for sixty days of the license plates of that vehicle in
accordance with Ohio R.C. 4503.233.
         (c)   If, within six years of the current offense, the offender has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of Ohio R.C.
4510.14 or former division (D)(2) of Ohio R.C. 4507.02 or a municipal ordinance
that is substantially equivalent to that section or former division, the court
shall order the criminal forfeiture to the State of the vehicle the offender
was operating at the time of the offense.
      (2)   An order for immobilization and impoundment of a vehicle under this
section shall be issued and enforced in accordance with Ohio R.C 4503.233 and
4507.02, as applicable. The court shall not release a vehicle from
immobilization ordered under this section unless the court is presented with
current proof of financial responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
      (3)   An order for criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under this section
shall be issued and enforced under Ohio R.C. 4503.234. Upon receipt of a copy
of the order from the court, neither the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor a
Deputy Registrar shall accept any aplication for the registration or transfer
of registration of any motor vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the
declaration of forfeiture. The period of registration denial shall be five
years after the date of the order unless, during that period, the court having
jurisdiction of the offense that led to the order terminates the forfeiture and
notifies the Registrar of the termination. The Registrar then shall take the
necessary measures to permit the person to register a vehicle owned or leased
by the person or to transfer registration of the vehicle. (ORC 4510.161)
   (H)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Electronic monitoring” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
2929.01.
      (2)   “Equivalent offense” means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of a municipal ordinance, law of another state, or
law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to subsection (a) of
this section;
         (b)   A violation of a former law of this State that was substantially
equivalent to subsection (A) of this section.
      (3)   “Jail” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2929.01.
      (4)   “Mandatory jail term” means the mandatory term in jail of three,
ten, or thirty consecutive days that must be imposed under subsection (B)(1),
(2) or (3) of this section upon an offender convicted of a violation of
subsection (A) of this section and in relation to which all of the following
apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to any provision
of the Ohio Revised Code.
(ORC 4510.14)
§ 72.612 DRIVING UNDER FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY LAW SUSPENSION OR CANCELLATION;
DRIVING UNDER A NONPAYMENT OF JUDGMENT SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person, whose driver's or commercial driver's license or temporary
instruction permit or nonresident's operating privilege has been suspended or
canceled pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 4509, shall operate any motor vehicle
within this Municipality, or knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the
person to be operated by another person in the Municipality, during the period
of the suspension or cancellation, except as specifically authorized by Ohio
R.C. Chapter 4509. No person shall operate a motor vehicle within this
Municipality, or knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to be
operated by another person in the Municipality, during the period in which the
person is required by Ohio R.C. 4509.45 to file and maintain proof of financial
responsibility for a violation of Ohio R.C. 4509.101, unless proof of financial
responsibility is maintained with respect to that vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any public
or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking in this Municipality if the person's driver's or commercial driver's
license or temporary instruction permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4509.37 or 4509.40 for nonpayment of a
judgment.
   (C)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a
noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a
noncertified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of subsection (A) or (B) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima-facie evidence that the license of the person was under
either a financial responsibility law suspension at the time of the alleged
violation of subsection (A) of this section or a nonpayment of judgment
suspension at the time of the alleged violation of subsection (B) of this
section. The person charged with a violation of subsection (A) or (B) of this
section may offer evidence to rebut this prima-facie evidence.
   (D)   Whoever violates subsection (A) of this section is guilty of driving
under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation and shall be
punished as provided in subsection (D) hereof. Whoever violates subsection (B)
of this section is guilty of driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension
and shall be punished as provided in subsection (D) hereof.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (D)(2) of this section,
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified
misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.21 to
2929.28, except that the offender shall not be sentenced to a jail term; the
offender shall not be sentenced to a community residential sanction pursuant to
Ohio R.C. 2929.26; notwithstanding division (A)(2)(a) of Ohio R.C. 2929.28, the
offender may be fined up to one thousand dollars ($1,000); and, notwithstanding
division (A)(3) of Ohio R.C. 2929.27, the offender may be ordered pursuant to
division (C) of that section to serve a term of community service of up to five
hundred hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community
service imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt
under division (A) of Ohio R.C. 2705.02 that may be filed in the underlying
case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously was
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of Ohio R.C. 4510.16,
or any combination of two violations of Ohio R.C. 4510.16 or Ohio R.C. 4510.11
or 4510.111, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in Ohio R.C. 4509.01. If the offender fails to
provide that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to Ohio
R.C. 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000) for any
economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and
proximate result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during or
after committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under this
section.
(ORC 4510.16)
   (E)   No person who has knowingly failed to maintain proof of financial
responsibility in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4509.101 shall produce any document
or present to a peace officer an electronic wireless communications device that
is displaying any text or images with the purpose to mislead a peace officer
upon the request of a peace officer for proof of financial responsibility made
in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4509.101. Whoever violates this subsection (e)
hereof is guilty of falsification, a misdemeanor of the first degree. (ORC
4509.102)
§ 72.613 DRIVING WITHOUT COMPLYING WITH LICENSE REINSTATEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person whose driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, or nonresident’s operating privilege has been
suspended shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public road or highway or any
public or private property after the suspension has expired unless the person
has complied with all license reinstatement requirements imposed by the court,
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles, or another provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a
noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a
noncertified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of subsection (A) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima-facie evidence that the license of the person had not been reinstated by
the person at the time of the alleged violation of subsection (A) hereof. The
person charged with a violation of subsection (A) hereof may offer evidence to
rebut this prima-facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to reinstate a
license and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided in subsection (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates subsection (A) hereof is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.26; notwithstanding division
(A)(2)(a) of Ohio R.C. 2929.28, the offender may be fined up to one thousand
dollars ($1,000); and, notwithstanding division (A)(3) of Ohio R.C. 2929.27,
the offender may be ordered pursuant to division (C) of that section to serve a
term of community service of up to five hundred hours. The failure of an
offender to complete a term of community service imposed by the court may be
punished as indirect criminal contempt under division (A) of Ohio R.C. 2705.02
that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of a violation of subsection (a) of this
section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of two
or more violations of Ohio R.C. 4510.21(A) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (3)   In all cases, the court may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender's driver's license, commercial driver's license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary driver's license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in division (A)(7) of Ohio R.C.
4510.02. (ORC 4510.21)
§ 72.614 DRIVING UNDER LICENSE FORFEITURE OR CHILD SUPPORT SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any public
or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking in this Municipality whose driver's or commercial driver's license has
been suspended pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2151.354, 2151.87, 2935.27, 3123.58,
4301.99, 4510.032, 4510.22 or 4510.33.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a
noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a
noncertified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of subsection (A) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima-facie evidence that the license of the person was under suspension at the
time of the alleged violation of subsection (A) of this section. The person
charged with a violation of subsection (A) of this section may offer evidence
to rebut this prima-facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates subsection (A) of this section is guilty of driving
under suspension and shall be punished as provided in subsection (C) of this
section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (C)(2) of this section,
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. The offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.26; notwithstanding division
(A)(2)(a) of Ohio R.C. 2929.28, the offender may be fined up to one thousand
dollars ($1,000); and, notwithstanding division (A)(3) of Ohio R.C. 2929.27,
the offender may be ordered pursuant to division (C) of that section to serve a
term of community service of up to five hundred hours. The failure of an
offender to complete a term of community service imposed by the court may be
punished as indirect criminal contempt under division (A) of Ohio R.C. 2705.02
that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously was
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of subsection (A) of
Ohio R.C. 4510.111, or any combination of two or more violations of subsection
(A) of Ohio R.C. 4510.111, or Ohio R.C. 4510.11 or 4510.16, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree and the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in Ohio R.C. 4509.01. If the offender fails to
provide that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to Ohio
R.C. 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000) for any
economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and
proximate result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during or
after committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under this
section. (ORC 4510.111)
§ 72.62 OPERATION OR SALE WITHOUT CERTIFICATE OF TITLE.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this Municipality a motor vehicle for which a
certificate of title is required without having that certificate in accordance
with Ohio R.C. Chapter 4505 or, if a physical certificate of title has not been
issued for a motor vehicle, operate the motor vehicle in this Municipality
knowing that the ownership information relating to the vehicle has not been
entered into the automated title processing system by a clerk of a court of
common pleas;
      (2)   Display or display for sale or sell as a dealer or acting on behalf
of a dealer, a motor vehicle without having obtained a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate, a certificate of title, or an assignment of a
certificate of title for it as provided in Ohio R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title or any certificate of
registration or license plates upon cancellation of the same by the Registrar
of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed in Ohio R.C.
Chapter 4505;
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a clerk of a court of
common pleas as provided in Ohio R.C. Chapter 4505 in case of the destruction
or dismantling or change of a motor vehicle in such respect that it is not the
motor vehicle described in the certificate of title;
      (5)   Violate any rules adopted pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (6)   Except as otherwise provided in Ohio R.C. Chapter 4505 and Chapter
4517, sell at wholesale a motor vehicle the ownership of which is not evidenced
by an Ohio certificate of title, or the current certificate of title issued for
the motor vehicle, or the manufacturer’s certificate of origin, and all title
assignments that evidence the seller’s ownership of the motor vehicle, and an
odometer disclosure statement that complies with Ohio R.C. 4505.06 and
subchapter IV of the “Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act”, 86 Stat.
961 (1972), 15 U.S.C. 1981;
      (7)   Operate in this Municipality a motor vehicle knowing that the
certificate of title to the vehicle or ownership of the vehicle as otherwise
reflected in the automated title processing system has been canceled.
   (B)   This section does not apply to persons engaged in the business of
warehousing or transporting motor vehicles for the purpose of salvage
disposition.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than two hundred
dollars ($200.00) or imprisoned not more than ninety days, or both.
(ORC 4505.18)
§ 72.63 DISPLAY OF LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   (1)   No person who is the owner or operator of a motor vehicle shall
fail to display in plain view on the rear of the motor vehicle a license plate
that displays the distinctive number and registration mark assigned to the
motor vehicle by the Ohio Director of Public Safety, including any county
identification sticker and any validation sticker when required by and issued
under R.C. §§ 4503.19 and 4503.191. However, a commercial tractor shall display
the license plate on the front of the commercial tractor.
      (2)   The license plate shall be securely fastened so as not to swing,
and shall not be covered by any material that obstructs its visibility.
      (3)   No person to whom a temporary motor vehicle license registration
has been issued for the use of a motor vehicle under R.C. § 4503.182, and no
operator of that motor vehicle, shall fail to display the temporary motor
vehicle license registration in plain view from the rear of the vehicle either
in the rear window or on an external rear surface of the motor vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall cover a temporary motor vehicle license
registration by any material that obstructs its visibility.
(R.C. § 4503.21(A))
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by R.C. §§ 4503.103, 4503.107, 4503.173,
4503.41, 4503.43, and 4503.46, no person who is the owner or chauffeur of a
motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways shall fail
to file annually the application for registration or to pay the tax therefor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(A))
   (C)    (1)   Within 30 days of becoming a resident of this state, any person
who owns a motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways
shall register the vehicle in this state. If such a person fails to register a
vehicle owned by the person, the person shall not operate any motor vehicle in
this state under a license issued by another state.
      (2)   For purposes of division (C)(1) of this section, RESIDENT means any
person to whom any of the following applies:
         (a)   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         (b)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to
be a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C.
§ 4507.01.
(R.C. § 4503.111(A), (C))
   (D)   Upon the transfer of ownership of a motor vehicle, the registration of
the motor vehicle expires, and the original owner immediately shall remove the
license plates from the motor vehicle, except as otherwise provided in R.C. §
4503.12.
(R.C. § 4503.12(A))
   (E)   No person shall operate or drive upon the highways of this
municipality a motor vehicle acquired from a former owner who has registered
the motor vehicle, while the motor vehicle displays the distinctive number or
identification mark assigned to it upon its original registration.
(R.C. § 4549.11(A))
   (F)   No person who is the owner of a motor vehicle and a resident of this
state shall operate or drive the motor vehicle upon the highways of this
municipality while it displays a distinctive number or identification mark
issued by or under the authority of another state, without complying with the
laws of this state relating to the registration and identification of motor
vehicles.
(R.C. § 4549.12(A))
   (G)   (1)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offenses established under division (A) of this section are
strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4503.21(B), (C))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(D))
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offense established under division (G)(3)(a) of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4503.111(B))
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4503.12(D))
      (5)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of
operation of a motor vehicle bearing license plates or an identification mark
issued to another, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.11(B))
      (6)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation by a resident of this state of a motor vehicle bearing the
distinctive number or identification mark issued by a foreign jurisdiction, a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.12(B))
§ 72.64 EXPIRED OR UNLAWFUL LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of a motor vehicle which is parked or
operated upon the public streets or highways shall fail to annually file the
application for registration or to pay the tax therefor, as required by Ohio
R.C. Chapter 4503.
(ORC 4503.11)
   (B)   No person shall operate, drive or park upon the public streets or
highways a motor vehicle acquired from a former owner who has registered the
motor vehicle in Ohio, while the motor vehicle displays the distinctive number
or identification mark assigned to it upon its original registration. (ORC
4549.11)
   (C)   No person who is the owner of a motor vehicle and a resident of Ohio
shall operate, drive or park the motor vehicle upon the public streets or
highways, while it displays a distinctive number or identification mark issued
by or under the authority of another state, without complying with the laws of
Ohio relating to the registration and identification of motor vehicles. (ORC
4549.12)
   (D)   No person shall park or operate any vehicle upon any public street or
highway upon which is displayed an expired license plate or an expired
validation sticker.
   (E)   No person shall park or operate any vehicle upon any public street or
highway upon which are displayed any license plates not legally registered and
issued for such vehicle, or upon which are displayed any license plates that
were issued on an application for registration that contains any false
statement by the applicant.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates subsection (A) hereof is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever violates subsection (B) hereof is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on each
subsequent offense.
      (3)   Whoever violates any provision of this section for which no other
penalty is provided is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4549.11; 4549.12)
§ 72.65 USE OF ILLEGAL LICENSE PLATES; TRANSFER OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle upon the streets in
this Municipality if it displays a license plate or a distinctive number or
identification mark that meets any of the following criteria:
      (1)   Is fictitious;
      (2)   Is a counterfeit or an unlawfully made copy of any distinctive
number or identification mark;
      (3)   Belongs to another motor vehicle, provided that this section does
not apply to a motor vehicle that is operated on the streets in this
Municipality when the motor vehicle displays license plates that originally
were issued for a motor vehicle that previously was owned by the same person
who owns the motor vehicle that is operated on the streets in this
Municipality, during the thirty-day period described in subsection (c) hereof.
   (B)   Whoever violates subsection (A)(1), (2) or (3) of this section is
guilty of operating a motor vehicle bearing an invalid license plate or
identification mark, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and
a misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent offense. (ORC 4549.08)
   (C)   Upon the transfer of ownership of a motor vehicle, the registration of
the motor vehicle expires, and the original owner shall immediately remove the
license plates from the motor vehicle. The transfer of the registration and,
where applicable, the license plates from the motor vehicle for which they
originally were issued to a succeeding motor vehicle purchased by the same
person in whose name the original registration and license plates were issued
shall be done within a period not to exceed thirty days. During that thirty-day
period, the license plates from the motor vehicle for which they originally
were issued may be displayed on the succeeding motor vehicle, and the
succeeding motor vehicle may be operated on the streets of the Municipality.
   (D)   Whoever violates subsection (C) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. (ORC 4503.12)
§ 72.651 REGISTRATION WITHIN THIRTY DAYS OF RESIDENCY.
   (A)   Within thirty days of becoming a resident of this State, any person
who owns a motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways
shall register the vehicle in this State. If such a person fails to register a
vehicle owned by the person, the person shall not operate any motor vehicle in
this Municipality under a license issued by another state.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates subsection (A) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   The offense established under subsection (B)(1) of this section is
a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state for
purposes of Ohio R.C. 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
   (C)   For purposes of subsection (A) of this section, "resident" means any
person to whom any of the following applies:
      (1)   The person maintains their principal residence in this State and
does not reside in this State as a result of the person's active service in the
United States Armed Forces.
      (2)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to be a
resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under Ohio R.C.
4507.01. (ORC 4503.111)
§ 72.66 STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT UPON STREETS; COLLISION WITH UNATTENDED
VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision with
persons or property on a public road or highway, the operator of the motor
vehicle, having knowledge of the accident or collision, immediately shall stop
the operator's motor vehicle at the scene of the accident or collision. The
operator shall remain at the scene of the accident or collision until the
operator has given the operator's name and address and, if the operator is not
the owner, the name and address of the owner of that motor vehicle, together
with the registered number of that motor vehicle, to all of the following:
         A.   Any person injured in the accident or collision;
         B.   The operator, occupant, owner or attendant of any motor vehicle
damaged in the accident or collision;
         C.   The police officer at the scene of the accident or collision.
      (2)   In the event an injured person is unable to comprehend and record
the information required to be given under subsection (A)(1) of this section,
the other operator involved in the accident or collision shall notify the
nearest police authority concerning the location of the accident or collision,
and the operator's name, address and the registered number of the motor vehicle
the operator was operating. The operator shall remain at the scene of the
accident or collision until a police officer arrives, unless removed from the
scene by an emergency vehicle operated by a political subdivision or an
ambulance.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required to be given in this section, in writing, to a
conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates subsection (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident. Except as otherwise provided in subsection
(B)(2) or (3) of this section, failure to stop after an accident is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after an accident is a felony and shall be prosecuted
under appropriate State law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after an accident is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate State law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender's driver's license, commercial driver's license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in division (A)(5) of Ohio R.C. 4510.02. No judge shall suspend the
first six months of suspension of an offender's license, permit, or privilege
required by this subsection.
   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial responsibility
as defined in Ohio R.C. 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide that proof of
financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other penalties provided by
law, the court may order restitution pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.18 or 2929.28
in an amount not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000) for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender's operation of the motor vehicle before, during or after
committing the offense charged under this section. (ORC 4549.02)
§ 72.67 STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT UPON PROPERTY OTHER THAN STREET.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision resulting
in injury or damage to persons or property on any public or private property
other than a public road or highway, the operator of the motor vehicle, having
knowledge of the accident or collision, shall stop at the scene of the accident
or collision. Upon request of any person who is injured or damaged, or any
other person, the operator shall give that person the operator's name and
address, and, if the operator is not the owner, the name and address of the
owner of that motor vehicle, together with the registered number of that motor
vehicle, and, if available, exhibit the operator's driver's or commercial
driver's license.
      (2)   If the operator of the motor vehicle involved in the accident or
collision does not provide the information specified in subsection (a)(1) of
this section, the operator shall give that information, within twenty-four
hours after the accident or collision, to the Police Department.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required under subsection (A)(1) of this section, in
writing, to a conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor
vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates subsection (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident. Except as otherwise provided
in subsection (B)(2) or (3) of this section, failure to stop after a nonpublic
road accident is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony and shall
be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony and shall be
prosecuted under appropriate State law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender's driver's license, commercial driver's license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in division (A)(5) of Ohio R.C. 4510.02. No judge shall suspend the
first six months of suspension of an offender's license, permit, or privilege
required by this subsection.
   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial responsibility
as defined in Ohio R.C. 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide that proof of
financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other penalties provided by
law, the court may order restitution pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.18 or 2929.28
in an amount not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000) for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender's operation of the motor vehicle before, during or after
committing the offense charged under this section. (ORC 4549.021)
§ 72.68 VEHICLE ACCIDENT RESULTING IN DAMAGE TO REALTY.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in damage
to real property, or personal property attached to real property, legally upon
or adjacent to a public road or highway immediately shall stop and take
reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of the
property of that fact, of the driver’s name and address, and of the
registration number of the vehicle the driver is driving and, upon request and
if available, shall exhibit the driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
   If the owner or person in charge of the property cannot be located after
reasonable search, the driver of the vehicle involved in the accident resulting
in damage to the property, within twenty-four hours after the accident, shall
forward to the police authority in the municipality in which the accident or
collision occurred, the same information required to be given to the owner or
person in control of the property and give the location of the accident and a
description of the damage insofar as it is known.
   (B)   Whoever violates subsection (A) of this section is guilty of failure
to stop after an accident involving the property of others, a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial responsibility
as defined in Ohio R.C. 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide that proof of
financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other penalties provided by
law, the court may order restitution pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.28 in an amount
not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000) for any economic loss arising from
an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the
offender's operation of the motor vehicle before, during or after committing
the offense charged under this section. (ORC 4549.03)
SAFETY AND EQUIPMENT
§ 72.70 DRIVING UNSAFE VEHICLES; VEHICLE BUMPERS AND HEIGHT.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move, or cause or knowingly permit to be
driven or moved, on any street any vehicle or combination of vehicles which is
in such unsafe condition as to endanger any person or property.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to prohibit the
use of additional parts and accessories on any vehicle not inconsistent with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter with respect to equipment on vehicles
do not apply to implements of husbandry, road machinery, road rollers, or
agricultural tractors except as made applicable to the articles of machinery.
(R.C. § 4513.02)
   (D)   (1)   (a)   "Passenger car" means any motor vehicle with motive power,
designed for carrying ten persons or less, except a multipurpose passenger
vehicle or motorcycle.
         (b)   "Multipurpose passenger vehicle" means a motor vehicle with
motive power, except a motorcycle, designed to carry ten persons or less, that
is constructed either on a truck chassis or with special features for
occasional off-road operation.
         (c)   "Truck" means every motor vehicle, except trailers and
semitrailers, designed and used to carry property and having a gross vehicle
weight rating of 10,000 pounds or less.
         (d)   "Manufacturer" has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4501.01.
         (e)   "Gross vehicle weight rating" means the manufacturer's gross
vehicle weight rating established for the vehicle.
         (f)   "Body floor height" means the vertical distance between top of
the frame rail and the bottom of the passenger compartment (cab) floor. In the
event that the vehicle is a truck body, floor height will be measured by the
vertical distance between the passenger compartment (cab) floor and the floor
of the truck bed.
         (g)   "Bumper height" means the vertical distance between the ground
and the highest point of the bottom of the bumper, measured when the vehicle is
laden on a level surface with the vehicle tires inflated to the manufacturer's
recommended pressure.
         (h)   "Frame" means the main longitudinal structural members of the
chassis of the vehicle or, for vehicles with unitized body construction, the
lowest main longitudinal structural members of the body of the vehicle.
         (i)   "Wheel track distance" means the distance on the ground between
the center of the tire tread on one side of the vehicle, and the center of the
tire tread on the opposite side. (OAC 4501-43-02)
      (2)   Prohibitions; Application.
         (a)   No person shall operate upon a street or highway any passenger
car, multipurpose passenger vehicle, or truck registered in this State that
does not conform to the requirements of this section.
      (b)   No person shall modify any motor vehicle registered in this State
in such a manner as to cause the vehicle body or chassis to come in contact
with the ground, expose the fuel tank to damage from collision, or cause the
wheels to come in contact with the body under normal operation, and no person
shall disconnect any part of the original suspension system of the vehicle to
defeat the safe operation of that system including the installation of
inverted, altered or modified suspension system component parts which results
in elevation of the height of the vehicle bumper or frame unit which is not in
compliance with this section.
         (c)   No person shall operate upon a street or highway any passenger
car, multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck registered in this State without a
bumper on the front and rear of the vehicle if such vehicle was equipped with
bumpers as standard equipment by the manufacturer.
         (d)   No person shall operate upon a street or highway any passenger
car, multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck registered in this State if the
difference in height between the body floor and the top of the frame exceeds
four inches.
         (e)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to prohibit
either of the following:
            1. The installation upon a passenger car, multipurpose passenger
vehicle or truck registered in this State of heavy duty equipment, including
shock absorbers and overload springs as long as such equipment does not cause
the vehicle to be in violation of this section;
            2. The operation on a street or highway of a passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck registered in this State with normal
wear to the suspension system if the normal wear does not adversely affect the
control of the vehicle.
         (f)   This section does not apply to any specially designed or
modified passenger car, multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck when operated
off a street or highway in races and similar events.
         (g)   A specially designed or modified passenger car, multipurpose
passenger vehicle or truck which does not conform to this section shall not be
operated on a street or highway. (OAC 4501-43-03)
      (3)   Specifications.
         (a)   The horizontal bumper shall be at least 4.5 inches in vertical
height, centered on the vehicle's centerline, and extend no less than the width
of the respective wheel track distances. Bumpers shall be horizontal load
bearing bumpers and attached to the vehicle frame to effectively transfer
impact when engaged.
         (b)   Maximum bumper heights shall be determined by the type of
vehicle at time of manufacture. If other than a passenger vehicle, the maximum
bumper height shall be determined by the gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) at
the time of manufacture. The height shall be measured in terms of the vertical
distance between the ground and the bottom of the bumper. Maximum bumper
heights are as follows:
         Front (inches)Rear (inches)
Passenger Vehicles      22   22
All Other Vehicles:
4,500 lbs. and under GVWR   24   26
4,501 lbs. to 7,500 lbs. GVWR   27   29
7,501 lbs. to 10,000 lbs. GVWR   28   31
         (c)   If the body and/or truck bed height is altered the difference in
height between the body floor and/or the truck bed floor to the top of the
frame rail shall not exceed four inches.
         (d)   For any vehicle with bumpers or attaching components which have
been modified or altered from the original manufacturer's design in order to
conform with the maximum bumper requirements of this section, the bumper height
shall be measured from a level surface to the bottom of the vehicle frame rail
at the most forward and rearward points of the frame rail. Frame rail height if
bumper modified or altered:
         Front (inches) Rear (inches)
Passenger Vehicles      22   22
All Other Vehicles:
4,500 lbs. and under GVWR   24   26
4,501 lbs. to 7,500 lbs. GVWR   27   29
7,501 lbs. to 10,000 lbs. GVWR   28   31
         (e)   The height restriction in this subsection (3) applies to the
distance from the ground to the bottom of the frame rail under any one or more
of the following conditions:
            1.   A motor vehicle is not equipped with a front and rear bumper.
            2.   The bumper height relative to the frame rails has been
altered.
            3.   A supplemental bumper has been installed or an addition to the
original or replacement has been made.
(OAC 4501-43-04)
      (4)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.021)
§ 72.71 LIGHTED LIGHTS; MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCES AND HEIGHTS.
   (A)   Every vehicle, other than a motorized bicycle, operated upon a street
or highway shall display lighted lights and illuminating devices as required by
this chapter during all of the following times:
      (1)   The time from sunset to sunrise;
      (2)   At any other time when, due to insufficient natural light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons, vehicles, and substantial objects
on the street or highway are not discernible at a distance of one thousand feet
ahead;
      (3)   At any time when the windshield wipers of the vehicle are in use
because of precipitation on the windshield.
   Every motorized bicycle shall display at such times lighted lights meeting
the rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under Ohio R.C.
4511.521. No motor vehicle, during any time specified in this section, shall be
operated upon a street or highway using only parking lights as illumination.
   (B)   Whenever in this chapter a requirement is declared as to the distance
from which certain lights and devices shall render objects visible, or within
which such lights or devices shall be visible, such distance shall be measured
upon a straight level unlighted street under normal atmospheric conditions
unless a different condition is expressly stated.
   (C)   Whenever in this chapter a requirement is declared as to the mounted
height of lights or devices, it shall mean from the center of such light or
device to the level ground upon which the vehicle stands.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a vehicle being operated upon a
street or highway to stop the vehicle solely because the officer observes that
a violation of subsection (A)(3) of this section has been or is being committed
or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation or summons for a
violation of that subsection, or causing the arrest of or commencing a
prosecution of a person for a violation of that subsection. (R.C. § 4513.03)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.72 HEADLIGHTS ON MOTOR VEHICLES AND MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, shall be equipped with
at least 2 headlights with at least one near each side of the front of the
motor vehicle.
   (B)   Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one and not more than
2 headlights.
(R.C. § 4513.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.73 TAIL LIGHT; ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLATE.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, pole trailer, or vehicle
which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles shall be equipped with
at least one tail light mounted on the rear which, when lighted, shall emit a
red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear, provided that in the
case of a train of vehicles only the tail light on the rearmost vehicle need be
visible from the distance specified.
   (B)   Either a tail light or a separate light shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate, when
the registration plate is required, and render it legible from a distance of 50
feet to the rear. Any tail light, together with any separate light for
illuminating the rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the headlights or auxiliary driving lights are lighted, except where
separate lighting systems are provide for trailers for the purpose of
illuminating the registration plate. (R.C. 4513.05)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.74 REAR RED REFLECTORS.
   Every new motor vehicle sold after September 6, 1941, and operated on a
street, other than vehicles of the type mentioned in §
72.75 or a commercial tractor to which a trailer or semitrailer is attached,
shall carry at the rear, either as a part of the tail lights or separately, 2
red reflectors of the size and characteristics and so maintained as to be
visible at night from all distances within 300 feet to 50 feet from the
vehicle. (See R.C. § 4513.06) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.75 SAFETY LIGHTING ON COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Buses, trucks, commercial tractors, trailers, semitrailers, and pole
trailers, when operated upon any street, shall be equipped with clearance
lights, marker lights, reflectors, and stop lights as required by state
regulations. The equipment shall be lighted at all times mentioned in §
72.71 except that clearance lights and side marker lights need not be lighted
on a vehicle operated where there is sufficient light to reveal any person or
substantial object on the street at the distance of 500 feet.
   (B)   The equipment shall be in addition to all other lights specifically
required by §§
72.71 to 72.84, inclusive. Vehicles operated under the jurisdiction of the
public utilities commission are not subject to this section. (R.C. § 4513.07)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.76 OBSCURED LIGHTS ON VEHICLES IN COMBINATION.
   Whenever motor and other vehicles are operated in combination during the
time that lights are required, any light, except tail lights, which by reason
of its location on a vehicle of the combination would be obscured by another
vehicle of the combination need not be lighted, but this section does not
affect the requirement that lighted clearance lights be displayed on the front
of the foremost vehicle required to have clearance lights or that all lights
required on the rear of the rearmost vehicle of any combination shall be
lighted. (R.C. § 4513.08) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.77 RED LIGHT OR RED FLAG ON EXTENDED LOADS.
   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear 4 feet or more beyond
the bed or body of the vehicle, there shall be displayed at the extreme rear
end of the load, at the times specified in §
72.71, a red light or lantern plainly visible from a distance of at least 500
feet to the sides and rear. The red light or lantern required by this section
is in addition to the red rear light required upon every vehicle. At any other
time there shall be displayed at the extreme rear end of the load a red flag or
cloth not less than 16 inches square. (R.C. § 4513.09) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.78 LIGHTS ON PARKED OR STOPPED VEHICLES.
   Except in case of an emergency, whenever a vehicle is parked or stopped upon
a roadway open to traffic or shoulder adjacent thereto, whether attended or
unattended during the times mentioned in §
72.71, the vehicle shall be equipped with one or more lights which shall
exhibit a white or amber light on the roadway side visible from a distance of
500 feet to the front of the vehicle, and a red light visible from a distance
of 500 feet to the rear. No lights need be displayed upon any vehicle when it
is stopped or parked where there is sufficient light to reveal any person or
substantial object within a distance of 500 feet upon any street. Any lighted
headlights upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or dimmed.
(R.C. § 4513.10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.79 LIGHTS, EMBLEMS, AND REFLECTORS ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES, FARM
MACHINERY, AGRICULTURAL TRACTORS, AND ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      BOAT TRAILER. Means any vehicle designed and used exclusively to
transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina, or in and around a
marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway for a distance of no more
than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
      SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE and SMV. Mean a boat trailer, unit of farm machinery,
road construction machinery, or other machinery designed by the manufacturer to
operate at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less. The term does not include a
bicycle, motorized bicycle, electric bicycle, or animal-drawn vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.11)
   (B)   Generally.
      (1)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall operate
either of the following vehicles unless it is equipped with and displays the
lamps described in division (B)(2) of this section:
         (a)   A vehicle not specifically required to be equipped with lamps or
other lighting devices by R.C. §§ 4513.03 to 4513.10;
         (b)   A vehicle referred to in R.C. § 4513.02(G).
      (2)   Vehicles described in division (B)(1) of this section shall be
equipped with both of the following:
         (a)   At least one lamp displaying a white light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the vehicle;
         (b)   Two lamps displaying red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the vehicle, or as an alternative, one lamp
displaying a red light visible from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to
the rear and two red reflectors visible from all distances of 600 feet to 100
feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams of headlamps.
      (3)   (a)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall
operate a multi-wheel agricultural tractor model year 2001 or earlier on a
street or highway unless it is equipped with and displays reflectors and
illuminated amber lamps so that the extreme left and right projections of the
tractor are indicated by all of the following:
            1.    Flashing lamps displaying amber light, visible to the front
and the rear. The lamps need not flash simultaneously and need not flash in
conjunction with any directional signals of the tractor.
            2.   Amber reflectors, all visible to the front;
            3.   Red reflectors, all visible to the rear.
         (b)   Rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4513.111 governing the lamps and reflectors described in division (B)(3)(a) of
this section and their placement correlate with and, as far as possible,
conform with paragraphs 4.1.4.1, 4.1.7.1, and 4.1.7.2 respectively of the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.10 OCT 98,
Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways.
      (4)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall operate a
unit of farm machinery model year 2002 or later on a street or highway unless
it is equipped with and displays markings and illuminated lamps that meet or
exceed the lighting, illumination, and marking standards and specifications
that are applicable to that type of farm machinery for the unit's model year
specified in the American society of agricultural engineers standard ANSI/ASAE
S279.10 OCT 98, lighting and marking of agricultural equipment on highways.
      (5)   Any unit of farm machinery designed by its manufacturer to operate
at a speed of 25 miles per hour or greater or any SMV may be equipped with and
display a red flashing light that is visible from a distance of not less than
1,000 feet to the rear at all times specified in R.C. § 4513.03. When a double-
faced light is used, it shall display amber light to the front and red light to
the rear.
      (6)   Lights and reflectors required under divisions (B)(3) and (B)(4) of
this section and authorized under division (B)(5) of this section are in
addition to other lights required or permitted by this division (B) or R.C. §
4513.17.
      (7)   The Ohio Director of Public Safety shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 that establish standards and specifications for lamps and
reflectors required or authorized by this section. Lamps and reflectors
required or authorized by this section shall meet those standards and
specifications.
      (8)   This division (B) does not apply to a bicycle, motorized bicycle,
electric bicycle, or animal-drawn vehicle.
      (9)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.111)
   (C)   Slow-moving vehicles.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person shall
operate an SMV on a street or highway as follows:
         (a)   At a speed exceeding 25 miles per hour;
         (b)   Without displaying the triangular SMV emblem mounted in
accordance with division (C)(2) of this section.
      (2)   The SMV emblem shall be mounted so as to be visible from a distance
of not less than 500 feet to the rear. In accordance with R.C. Chapter 119, the
Ohio Director of Public Safety shall adopt standards and specifications for the
design and position of mounting the SMV emblem. The standards and
specifications for the SMV emblem correlate with and, so far as possible,
conform with those approved by the American Society of Agricultural Engineers.
      (3)   A person may operate an SMV on a street or highway without
displaying the triangular SMV emblem when any of the following apply:
         (a)   The SMV is being used in actual construction and maintenance
work in an area guarded by a flagperson, or where flares are used.
         (b)   The SMV is operating or traveling within the limits of a
construction area designated by the Ohio Director of Transportation, a city
engineer, or the county engineer of the several counties, when such
construction area is marked in accordance with requirements of the Ohio
Director of Transportation and the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices,
as set forth in R.C. § 4511.09.
      (4)   No person shall display an SMV emblem on any of the following:
         (a)   Any vehicle not required to use the SMV emblem by this division
(C) or R.C. § 4513.113 or 4513.114;
         (b)   An SMV being transported upon any other vehicle;
         (c)   Any stationary object on the highway.
      (5)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate an SMV, except a unit
designed to be completely mounted on a primary power unit that is manufactured
or assembled on or after April 1, 1966, unless it is equipped with an SMV
emblem mounting device.
      (6)   Whoever violates this division (C) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.112)
   (D)   Farm machinery and agricultural tractors.
      (1)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate on a street or
highway any unit of farm machinery that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the unit displays both
of the following:
         (a)   The SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. § 4513.112(B);
         (b)   A speed identification symbol that does both of the following:
            1.   Meets the specifications contained in the American Society of
Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005, Agricultural Equipment:
Speed Identification Symbol (SIS);
            2.    Indicates the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the
unit of farm machinery is designed by its manufacturer to operate.
      (2)   No person operating a tractor on a street or highway that is
designed by its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per
hour and that is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing a unit of farm machinery
while operating at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour shall fail to display
both of the following on the unit of farm machinery:
         (a)   The SMV emblem;
         (b)   The speed identification symbol that matches the speed
identification symbol required to be displayed on the agricultural tractor.
      (3)   No person shall operate an agricultural tractor that is designed by
its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless
the person possesses documentation published or provided by the manufacturer
indicating the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the manufacturer
designed the agricultural tractor to operate.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.113)
   (E)   Animal-drawn vehicles.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(4) of this section, no
person shall operate an animal-drawn vehicle on a street or highway unless it
is equipped with and displays, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, both
of the following:
         (a)   At least one lamp displaying a white light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the animal-drawn vehicle;
         (b)   Two lamps displaying red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the animal-drawn vehicle, or as an
alternative, one lamp displaying a red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear and two red reflectors visible from all
distances of 600 feet to one hundred feet to the rear when illuminated by the
lawful lower beams of headlamps.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(4) of this section, no
person shall operate an animal-drawn vehicle on a street or highway unless it
is equipped with and displays, at all times, all of the following:
         (a)   One yellow flashing lamp displaying yellow light that is visible
from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet and that is mounted in either of
the following positions:
            1.   On the top most portion of the rear of the animal- drawn
vehicle;
            2.   On the top of the animal-drawn vehicle.
         (b)   At least one of the following:
            1.   An SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. § 4513.112(B);
            2.   Micro- prism reflective tape that is visible from a distance
of not less than 500 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower
beams of headlamps;
            3.   Both an SMV emblem and micro-prism reflective tape, as
specified in this division.
         (c)   Lamps and micro-prism reflective tape required by this section
shall meet standards and specifications adopted by the Ohio Director of Public
Safety under R.C. § 4513.114.
      (3)   The Ohio Director of Public Safety, in accordance with R.C. Chapter
119, shall adopt rules establishing standards and specifications for the
position and mounting of the lamps and micro-prism reflective tape required by
R.C. § 4513.114. The rules permit the micro-prism reflective tape to be red,
amber, white, or silver in color.
      (4)   (a)   Divisions (E)(1) and (E)(2) of this section do not apply to
the operator of animal-drawn agricultural equipment who is not transporting any
livestock or a person other than the operator.
         (b)   No operator described in division (E)(4)(a) of this section
shall operate animal-drawn agricultural equipment unless it is equipped with
and displays, at all times, the SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. §
4513.112(B).
         (c)   As used in division (E)(4) of this section, “animal- drawn
agricultural equipment” means equipment drawn by the muscular power of an
animal that is used solely for agricultural purposes. “Animal-drawn
agricultural equipment” includes any of the following:
            1.   A plow;
            2.   A manure spreader;
            3.   A thresher.
      (5)   Whoever violates this division (E) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.114)
   (F)   Strict liability offenses. The offenses established under this section
are strict liability offenses, and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The
designation of these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be
construed to imply that any other offense, for which there is no specified
degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4513.115)
§ 72.80 SPOTLIGHT AND AUXILIARY LIGHTS.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one spotlight and
every lighted spotlight shall be so aimed and used upon approaching another
vehicle that no part of the high-intensity portion of the beam will be directed
to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side of the vehicle, nor
more than 100 feet ahead of the vehicle.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than 3 state approved
auxiliary driving lights mounted on the front of the vehicle. The Director of
Public Safety shall prescribe specifications for auxiliary driving lights and
regulations for their use, and any such lights which do not conform to these
specifications and regulations shall not be used.
(R.C. § 4513.12) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.81 COWL, FENDER, AND BACKUP LIGHTS.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with side cowl or fender lights or
lights on each side thereof which shall emit a white or amber light without
glare.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with back-up lights, either
separately or in combination with another light. No back-up lights shall be
continuously lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion.
(R.C. § 4513.13) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.82 DISPLAY OF LIGHTED LIGHTS.
   (A)   At all times mentioned in §
72.71 at least 2 state approved lighted lights shall be displayed conforming to
state regulations, one near each side of the front of every motor vehicle,
except when the vehicle is parked subject to the regulations governing lights
on parked vehicles. (R.C. § 4513.14)
   (B)   However, on a motorcycle, there shall be displayed at least one and
not more than 2 lighted lights as required herein. (See R.C. § 4513.04)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.83 USE OF HEADLIGHT BEAMS.
   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder adjacent
thereto during the times specified in §
72.71, the driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam,
directed high enough and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons, vehicles,
and substantial objects at a safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject
to the following requirements:
   (A)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle, the
driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam so aimed that the
glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming driver.
   (B)   Every new motor vehicle registered in this state, which has multiple-
beam road lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator, which
shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the
headlights is in use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. The indicator shall
be so designed and located that, when lighted, it will be readily visible
without glare to the driver of the vehicle.
(R.C. 4513.15) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.84 LIGHTS OF LESS INTENSITY ON SLOW- MOVING VEHICLES.
   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in §
72.71 when it is equipped with 2 lighted lights upon the front thereof capable
of revealing persons and substantial objects 75 feet ahead in lieu of lights
required in §
72.82, provided that the vehicle shall not be operated at a speed in excess of
20 m.p.h.
(R.C. § 4513.16) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.85 NUMBER OF LIGHTS; LIMITATIONS ON FLASHING, OSCILLATING, OR ROTATING
LIGHTS.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with headlights is also equipped
with any auxiliary lights or spotlight or any other light on the front thereof
projecting a beam of an intensity greater than 300 candle power, not more than
a total of 5 of the lights on the front of a vehicle shall be lighted at any
one time when the vehicle is upon a highway.
   (B)   Any lighted light or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle, other
than headlights, spotlights, signal lights, or auxiliary driving lights, that
projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300 candle power shall be
so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level of the roadway on
which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet from the vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   Flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles, except as a
means for indicating a right or a left turn, or in the presence of a vehicular
traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching, or overtaking or passing.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (C)(1) of this section does not apply
to any of the following:
         (a)   Emergency vehicles, road service vehicles servicing or towing a
disabled vehicle, stationary waste collection vehicles actively collecting
garbage, refuse, trash, or recyclable materials on the roadside, rural mail
delivery vehicles, vehicles as provided in R.C. § 4513.182, highway maintenance
vehicles, and similar equipment operated by state or local authorities,
provided such vehicles are equipped with and display, when used on a street or
highway for the special purpose necessitating such lights, a flashing,
oscillating, or rotating amber light;
         (b)   Vehicles or machinery permitted by R.C. § 4513.111 to have a
flashing red light;
         (c)   Farm machinery and vehicles escorting farm machinery, provided
such machinery and vehicles are equipped with and display, when used on a
street or highway, a flashing, oscillating, or rotating amber light. Farm
machinery also may display the lights described in R.C. § 4513.111.
         (d)   A funeral hearse or funeral escort vehicle, provided that the
funeral hearse or funeral escort vehicle is equipped with and displays, when
used on a street or highway for the special purpose necessitating such lights,
a flashing, oscillating, or rotating purple or amber light.
         (e)   A vehicle being used for emergency preparedness, response, and
recovery activities, as those terms are defined in R.C. § 5502.21, that is
equipped with and displays, when used on a street or highway for the special
purpose necessitating such lights, a flashing, oscillating, or rotating amber
or red and white light, provided that the vehicle is being operated by a person
from one of the following and the vehicle is clearly marked with the applicable
agency’s or authority’s insignia:
            1.   The Ohio Emergency Management Agency;
            2.   A countywide emergency management agency established under
R.C. § 5502.26;
            3.   A regional authority for emergency management established
under R.C. § 5502.27;
            4.   A program for emergency management established under R.C. §
5502.271.
      (3)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to animal-drawn
vehicles subject to R.C. § 4513.114.
   (D)   (1)   Except a person operating a public safety vehicle, as defined in
R.C. § 4511.01(E), an emergency management agency vehicle, as described in
division (C)(2)(e) of this section, or a school bus, no person shall operate,
move, or park upon, or permit to stand within the right-of-way of any public
street or highway any vehicle or equipment that is equipped with and displaying
a flashing red or a flashing combination red and white light, or an oscillating
or rotating red light, or a combination red and white oscillating or rotating
light.
      (2)   Except a public law enforcement officer, or other person sworn to
enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state, operating a public safety
vehicle when on duty, no person shall operate, move, or park upon, or permit to
stand within the right-of-way of any street or highway any vehicle or equipment
that is equipped with, or upon which is mounted, and displaying a flashing blue
or a flashing combination blue and white light, or an oscillating or rotating
blue light, or a combination blue and white oscillating or rotating light.
   (E)   This section does not prohibit the use of warning lights required by
law or the simultaneous flashing of turn signals on disabled vehicles or on
vehicles being operated in unfavorable atmospheric conditions in order to
enhance their visibility. This section also does not prohibit the simultaneous
flashing of turn signals or warning lights either on farm machinery or vehicles
escorting farm machinery when used on a street or highway.
(R.C. 4513.17)
   (F)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a motor vehicle
operated by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner's investigator may be equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and siren, whistle
or bell capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a
distance of not less than 500 feet. Such a vehicle may display the flashing,
oscillating or rotating red or blue light and may give the audible signal of
the siren, whistle or bell only when responding to a fatality or a fatal motor
vehicle accident on a street or highway and only at those locations where the
stoppage of traffic impedes the ability of the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner's investigator to arrive at the site of the fatality.
      (2)   This division (F) does not relieve the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner's investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.171) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.86 FOCUS AND AIM OF HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   No person shall use any lights mentioned in §§
72.71 to 72.85, inclusive, upon any motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer
unless the lights are equipped, mounted and adjusted as to focus and aim in
accordance with state regulations.
(R.C. § 4513.19)
   (B)   The headlights on any motor vehicle shall comply with the headlamp
color requirements contained in federal motor vehicle safety standard number
108, 49 C.F.R. 571.108. No person shall operate a motor vehicle in violation of
this subsection.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.87 MOTOR VEHICLE AND MOTORCYCLE BRAKES.
   (A)   The following requirements govern as to brake equipment on vehicles:
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, when operated upon a
street or highway, shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the
movement of and to stop and hold such motor vehicle, including two separate
means of applying the brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply
the brakes to at least two wheels. If these two separate means of applying the
brakes are connected in any way, then on such motor vehicles manufactured or
assembled after January 1, 1942, they shall be so constructed that failure of
any one part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle
without brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, when operated upon a street or highway, shall be
equipped with at least one adequate brake, which may be operated by hand or by
foot.
      (3)   Every motorized bicycle shall be equipped with brakes meeting the
rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under Ohio R.C. 4511.521.
      (4)   When operated upon the streets or highways of this Municipality,
the following vehicles shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the
movement of and to stop and to hold the vehicle designed to be applied by the
driver of the towing motor vehicle from its cab, and also designed and
connected so that, in case of a breakaway of the towed vehicle, the brakes
shall be automatically applied:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every trailer or
semitrailer, except a pole trailer, with an empty weight of two thousand pounds
or more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1942;
         B.   Every manufactured home or travel trailer with an empty weight of
two thousand pounds or more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1,
2001.
      (5)   Every watercraft trailer with a gross weight or manufacturer’s
gross vehicle weight rating of three thousand pounds or more that is
manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 2008, shall have separate
brakes equipped with hydraulic surge or electrically operated brakes on two
wheels.
      (6)   In any combination of motor-drawn trailers or semitrailers equipped
with brakes, means shall be provided for applying the rearmost brakes in
approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle, and developing
the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest rate; or
means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the rearmost
brakes; or both of the above means, capable of being used alternatively, may be
employed.
      (7)   Every vehicle and combination of vehicles, except motorcycles and
motorized bicycles, and except trailers and semitrailers of a gross weight of
less than 2,000 pounds, and pole trailers, shall be equipped with parking
brakes adequate to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under
all conditions of loading, on a surface free from snow, ice or loose material.
The parking brakes shall be capable of being applied in conformance with the
foregoing requirements by the driver's muscular effort or by spring action or
by equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or
other sources of power provided that failure of the service brake actuation
system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes
from being applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements. The parking
brakes shall be so designed that when once applied they shall remain applied
with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of any source of energy or
leakage of any kind.
      (8)   The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies, brake shoe
anchors, and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally associated with
the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service brakes and the
parking brakes. If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (9)   Every motor vehicle or combination of motor-drawn vehicles shall be
capable at all times and under all conditions of loading of being stopped on a
dry, smooth, level road free from loose material, upon application of the
service or foot brake, within the following specified distances, or shall be
capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate corresponding to these
distances:
From a speed of 20 miles per hour
   Deceleration in
         Stopping distance   feet per second
         in feet   per second
Brakes on
all wheels      30               14
Brakes not
on all four
wheels         40               10.7
      (10)   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be
so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels
on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(ORC 4513.20)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.99)
§ 72.88 HORN, SIREN, AND THEFT ALARM SIGNAL.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a street shall be equipped with
a horn which is in good working order and capable of emitting sound audible,
under normal conditions, from a distance of not less than 200 feet.
   (B)   No motor vehicle shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use upon
a vehicle, any siren, whistle, or bell. Any vehicle may be equipped with a
theft alarm signal device which shall be so arranged that it cannot be used as
an ordinary warning signal. Every emergency or public safety vehicle shall be
equipped with a siren, whistle, or bell capable of emitting sound audible under
normal conditions from a distance of not less than 500 feet and of a type
approved by the Director of Public Safety. The equipment shall not be used
except when the vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or is in
the immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, in which
case the driver of the emergency vehicle shall sound the equipment when it is
necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
(R.C. § 4513.21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.89 MUFFLER; MUFFLER CUTOUT; EXCESSIVE SMOKE, GAS, OR NOISE.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle with an internal combustion engine
shall at all times be equipped with a muffler which is in good working order
and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise, and no person
shall use a muffler cutout, by-pass, or similar device upon a motor vehicle on
a highway. Every motorcycle muffler shall be equipped with baffle plates.
   (B)   No person shall own, operate, or have in his possession any motor
vehicle or motorcycle equipped with a device for producing excessive smoke or
gas, or so equipped as to permit oil or any other chemical to flow into or upon
the exhaust pipe or muffler of the vehicle, or equipped in any other way to
produce or emit smoke or dangerous or annoying gases from any portion of the
vehicle, other than the ordinary gases emitted by the exhaust of an internal
combustion engine under normal operation.
(R.C. § 4513.22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.90 REAR-VIEW MIRROR; CLEAR VIEW TO FRONT, BOTH SIDES, AND REAR.
   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle shall be equipped with a mirror so
located as to reflect to the operator a view of the street to the rear of the
vehicle or motorcycle. Operators of vehicles and motorcycles shall have a clear
and unobstructed view to the front and to both sides of their vehicles or
motorcycles and shall have a clear view to the rear of their vehicles or
motorcycles by mirror.
(R.C. § 4513.23) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.91 SIGN OR POSTER UPON WINDSHIELD; WINDSHIELD WIPER.
   (A)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle on a street or highway in this
municipality, other than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle, that is not
equipped with a windshield.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle, other than a bus, with
any sign, poster or other nontransparent material upon the front windshield,
sidewings, side or rear windows of such vehicle other than a certificate or
other paper required to be displayed by law, except that there may be in the
lower left-hand or right-hand corner of the windshield a sign, poster or decal
not to exceed four inches in height by six inches in width. No sign, poster or
decal shall be displayed in the front windshield in such a manner as to conceal
the vehicle identification number for the motor vehicle when in accordance with
federal law, that number is located inside the vehicle passenger compartment
and so placed as to be readable through the vehicle glazing without moving any
part of the vehicle.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a passenger car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if either of
the following apply to the device:
         (a)   It is a “vehicle safety technology” as defined in 49 C.F.R. §
393.5 and complies with 49 C.F.R. § 393.60(e)(1)(ii).
         (b)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals, and it does not conceal the vehicle
identification number.
      (3)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a commercial car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if either of
the following apply to the device:
         (a)   It is a “vehicle safety technology” as defined in 49 C.F.R. §
393.5 and complies with 49 C.F.R. § 393.60(e)(1)(ii).
         (b)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals, and it is mounted not more than 8.5 inches
below the upper edge of the windshield.
   (C)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield. The device
shall be maintained in good working order and so constructed as to be
controlled or operated by the operator of the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.24) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.92 LIMITED LOAD EXTENSION ON LEFT SIDE OF PASSENGER VEHICLE.
   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on a street with any load
carried on the vehicle which extends more than 6 inches beyond the line of the
fenders on the vehicle's left side.
(R.C. § 4513.30) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.93 MOTOR VEHICLE STOP LIGHTS.
   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, and pole trailer when operated
upon a street or highway shall be equipped with two or more stop lights, except
that passenger cars manufactured or assembled prior to January 1, 1967,
motorcycles, and motor-driven cycles shall be equipped with at least one stop
light. Stop lights shall be mounted on the rear of the vehicle, actuated upon
application of the service brake, and may be incorporated with other rear
lights. Such stop lights when actuated shall emit a red light visible from a
distance of five hundred feet to the rear, provided that in the case of a train
of vehicles only the stop lights on the rear-most vehicle need be visible from
the distance specified.
   Such stop lights when actuated shall give a steady warning light to the rear
of a vehicle or train of vehicles to indicate the intention of the operator to
diminish the speed of or stop a vehicle or train of vehicles.
   When stop lights are used as required by this section, they shall be
constructed or installed so as to provide adequate and reliable illumination
and shall conform to the appropriate rules and regulations established under
Ohio R.C. 4513.19.
   Historical motor vehicles as defined in Ohio R.C. 4503.181, not originally
manufactured with stop lights, are not subject to this section.
(ORC 4513.071)
§ 72.94 AIR CLEANER REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate upon any street, alley, or other public place any
motor vehicle which is not equipped with a functioning air cleaner. Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 72.941 OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE FOR SCHOOL BUS OPERATOR.
   (A)   On and after May 6, 1986, no person, school board, or governmental
entity shall purchase, lease, or rent a new school bus unless the school bus
has an occupant restraining device, as defined in §
72.942, installed for use in its operator's seat. (R.C. § 4511.772)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. (R.C.
§ 4511.99(F))
(Ord. 2558, passed 8-26-86) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.942 DRIVERS AND PASSENGERS REQUIRED TO WEAR SEAT BELTS.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      AUTOMOBILE. Means any commercial tractor, passenger car, commercial car,
or truck that is required to be factory-equipped with an occupant restraining
device for the operator or any passenger by regulations adopted by the United
States Secretary of Transportation pursuant to the “National Traffic and Motor
Vehicle Safety Act of 1966", 80 Stat. 719, 15 U.S.C. § 1392.
      COMMERCIAL CAR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. A seat safety belt, shoulder belt, harness,
or other safety device for restraining a person who is an operator of or
passenger in an automobile and that satisfies the minimum federal vehicle
safety standards established by the United States Department of Transportation.
      PASSENGER. Any person in an automobile, other than its operator, who is
occupying a seating position for which an occupant restraining device is
provided.
      PASSENGER CAR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      TORT ACTION. A civil action for damages for injury, death, or loss to
person or property. The term includes a product liability claim, as defined in
R.C. § 2307.71, and as asbestos claim, as defined in R.C. § 2307.91, but does
not include a civil action for damages for breach of contract or another
agreement between persons.
      VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE. As used in the definitions of the terms set
forth above, VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE have the same meanings as in R.C. §
4511.01.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless he or she is
wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device, or operate a school bus that has an occupant restraining
device installed for use in its operator’s seat unless he or she is wearing all
of the available elements of the device, as properly adjusted.
      (2)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless each
passenger in the automobile who is subject to the requirement set forth in
division (B)(3) of this section is wearing all of the available elements of a
properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
      (3)   Occupy, as a passenger, a seating position on the front seat of an
automobile being operated on any street or highway unless he or she is wearing
all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining
device.
      (4)   Operate a taxicab on any street or highway unless all factory-
equipped occupant restraining devices in the taxicab are maintained in usable
form.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person who is
required by R.C. § 4511.81 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to
be secured in a child restraint device or booster seat.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
an employee of the United States Postal Service or of a newspaper home delivery
service, during any period in which the person is engaged in the operation of
an automobile to deliver mail or newspapers to addressees.
      (3)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states the following:
         (a)   That the person has a physical impairment that makes use of an
occupant restraining device impossible or impractical;
         (b)   Whether the physical impairment is temporary, permanent, or
reasonably expected to be permanent;
         (c)   If the physical impairment is temporary, how long the physical
impairment is expected to make the use of an occupant restraining device
impossible or impractical.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has registered with the Registrar of Motor Vehicles in accordance
with division (C)(5) of this section.
      (5)   A person who has received an affidavit under division (C)(3) of
this section stating that the person has a permanent or reasonably expected to
be permanent physical impairment that makes use of an occupant restraining
device impossible or impracticable may register with the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles attesting to that fact. Upon such registration, the Registrar shall
make that information available in the law enforcement automated data system. A
person included in the database under division (C)(5) of this section is not
required to have the affidavit obtained in accordance with division (C)(3) of
this section in their possession while operating or occupying an automobile.
      (6)   A physician or chiropractor who issues an affidavit for the
purposes of division (C)(3) or (C)(4) of this section is immune from civil
liability arising from any injury or death sustained by the person who was
issued the affidavit due to the failure of the person to wear an occupant
restraining device unless the physician or chiropractor, in issuing the
affidavit, acted in a manner that constituted willful, wanton, or reckless
misconduct.
      (7)   The Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 establishing a process for a person to be included in the
database under division (C)(5) of this section. The information provided and
included in the database under division (C)(5) of this section is not a public
record subject to inspection or copying under R.C. § 149.43.
   (D)   Officers not permitted to stop cars to determine violation.
Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law enforcement
officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on any street
or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of determining whether a
violation of division (B) of this section has been or is being committed or for
the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or summons for the violation or
for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for the
violation. No law enforcement officer shall view the interior or visually
inspect any automobile being operated on any street or highway for the sole
purpose of determining whether the violation has been or is being committed.
   (E)   Use of fines for educational program. All fines collected for
violations of division (B) of this section shall be forwarded to the State
Treasurer for deposit in the funds as set forth in R.C. § 4513.263(E).
   (F)   Limitations on evidence used for prosecution.
      (1)   Subject to division (F)(2) of this section, the failure of a person
to wear all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device in violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(3) of this section or
the failure of a person to ensure that each minor who is a passenger of an
automobile being operated by that person is wearing all of the available
elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device in violation of
division (B)(2) of this section shall not be considered or used by the trier of
fact in a tort action as evidence of negligence or contributory negligence.
But, the trier of fact may determine based on evidence admitted consistent with
the Ohio Rules of Evidence that the failure contributed to the harm alleged in
the tort action and may diminish a recovery of compensatory damages that
represents non-economic loss, as defined in R.C. § 2307.011, in a tort action
that could have been recovered but for the plaintiff’s failure to wear all of
the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
Evidence of that failure shall not be used as a basis for a criminal
prosecution of the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this
section; and shall not be admissible as evidence in a criminal action involving
the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
      (2)   If, at the time of an accident involving a passenger car equipped
with occupant restraining devices, any occupant of the passenger car who
sustained injury or death was not wearing an available occupant restraining
device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a device, or was
not wearing such a device as properly adjusted, then, consistent with the Rules
of Evidence, the fact that the occupant was not wearing the available occupant
restraining device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a
device, or was not wearing such a device as properly adjusted is admissible in
evidence in relation to any claim for relief in a tort action to the extent
that the claim for relief satisfies all of the following:
         (a)   It seeks to recover damages for injury or death to the occupant;
         (b)   The defendant in question is the manufacturer, designer,
distributor, or seller of the passenger car;
         (c)   The claim for relief against the defendant in question is that
the injury or death sustained by the occupant was enhanced or aggravated by
some design defect in the passenger car or that the passenger car was not
crashworthy.
   (G)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section shall be fined
$30.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) shall be subject to the penalty
set forth in §
70.99(B).
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section shall be fined
$20.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (B)(4) of this section, whoever violates division (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4513.263)
§ 72.943 USE OF EARPHONES WHILE OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
   EARPHONES. Any device that covers all or a portion of both ears and that
does either of the following:
         (a)   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         (b)   Provides hearing protection.
      EARPHONES does not include speakers or other listening devices that are
built into protective headgear.
      EARPLUGS. Any device that can be inserted into one or both ears and that
does either of the following:
         (a)   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         (b)   Provides hearing protection.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle while wearing earphones over,
or earplugs in, both ears.
   (C)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any person wearing a hearing aid;
      (2)   Law enforcement personnel while on duty;
      (3)   Fire Department personnel and emergency medical service personnel
while on duty;
      (4)   Any person engaged in the operation of equipment for use in the
maintenance or repair of any highway;
      (5)   Any person engaged in the operation of refuse collection equipment;
      (6)   Any person wearing earphones or earplugs for hearing protection
while operating a motorcycle.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.84) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.944 DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 1954, unless the vehicle is equipped with
electrical or mechanical directional signals.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motorcycle or motor-driven cycle
manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1968, unless the vehicle is
equipped with electrical or mechanical directional signals.
   (B)   “Directional signals” means an electrical or mechanical signal device
capable of clearly indicating an intention to turn either to the right or to
the left and which shall be visible from both the front and rear.
   (C)   All mechanical signal devices shall be self- illuminating devices when
in use at the times mentioned in Section
72.71.
(ORC 4513.261)
72.945 USE OF SUNSCREENING, NONTRANSPARENT AND REFLECTORIZED MATERIALS.
   (A)   Requirements.
      (1)   No person shall operate, on any highway or other public or private
property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking, lease, or rent any
motor vehicle that is required to be registered in this State with any
sunscreening material, or other product or material which has the effect of
making the windshield or windows nontransparent or would alter the windows’
color, increase its reflectivity, or reduce its light transmittance, unless the
product or material satisfies one of the following exceptions:
         (a)   Any manufacturer's tinting or glazing of motor vehicle windows
or windshields that is otherwise in compliance with or permitted by "Federal
Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 205" (FMVSS 205) in effect at the time of
the manufacture of the motor vehicle until such standard is subsequently
repealed or reduced. In "Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 205"
(FMVSS 205) "manufacturer" means any person engaged in the manufacturing or
assembling of motor vehicles or motor vehicle equipment, including any person
importing motor vehicles or motor vehicle equipment for resale. "Federal Motor
Vehicle Safety Standard Number 205" (FMVSS), Code of Federal Regulations, Title
49, Part 571, can be obtained online at web site http://www.gpo.gov.
         (b)   Any sunscreening material or other product or material applied
to the windshield when used in conjunction with the safety glazing materials of
such window, has a light transmittance of not less than seventy per cent plus
or minus three per cent and is not red or yellow in color.
         (c)   Any sunscreening material or other product or material applied
to the side windows to the immediate right or left the driver, so long as such
material, when used in conjunction with the safety glazing materials of such
windows, has a light transmittance of not less than fifty per cent plus or
minus three per cent and is not red or yellow in color.
         (d)   Any sunscreening material or other product or material applied
to a window not otherwise listed in subsections (A)(1)(a) to (c) or (e) of this
section, except that outside left and right rear view mirrors are required if
the sunscreening material is applied to the rear window and the sunscreening
material, when used in conjunction with the safety glazing material of such
window, has a light tranmsmittance of less than fifty per cent plus or minus
three per cent.
         (e)   Any sunscreening material or other product or material applied
along the top of the windshield and that does not extend downward beyond the
AS-1 line or five inches from the top of the windshield, whichever is closer to
the top, is not regulated by this section.
      (2)   No person shall install in any motor vehicle any glass or other
material that fails to conform to the specifications of this section.
      (3)   No used motor vehicle dealer or new motor vehicle dealer, as
defined in Ohio R.C. 4517.01, shall sell any motor vehicle that fails to
conform to the specifications of this section.
      (4)   No reflectorized materials shall be permitted upon or in any front
windshield, side windows, sidewings or rear window.
      (5)   No person shall operate on any highway or other public or private
property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking, lease, or rent any
motor vehicle that is required to be registered in this State that is equipped
with privacy drapes, louvers, curtains or blinds unless the drapes, louvers,
curtains or blinds are open and secure during vehicle operation.
      (6)   All motor vehicles, beginning with the 1990 model year, must be
equipped with labels identifying sunscreening material. All sunscreening
material must indicate the manufacturer’s name and the percentage level of
light transmission of the material permanently installed between the material
and the surface to which the material is applied or affixed. Such label must be
legible and must be placed in the lower left-hand corner of the vehicle window
when viewed from the outside. (OAC 4501-41- 03)
   (B)   Exemptions. The provisions of this section do not apply to:
      (1)   A motor vehicle registered in this State in the name of a person,
or the person's parent, legal guardian or spouse who has an affidavit signed by
a physician licensed to practice in this State under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4731 or
an affidavit signed by an optometrist licensed to practice in this State under
Ohio R.C. Chapter 4725 that states that the person has a physical condition
that makes it necessary to equip such motor vehicle with sunscreening material
which would be of a light transmittance and/or luminous reflectance in
violation of this section. Such affidavit shall be in the possession of the
person so afflicted or the driver at all times while in the motor vehicle;
      (2)   The windows to the rear of the driver in chauffeured limousines as
defined herein;
      (3)   The windows to the rear of the driver in those vehicles designed
and used to transport corpses which include hearses and other vehicles adapted
for such use; and
      (4)   The manufacturer's tinting or glazing of motor vehicle windows or
windshields that is otherwise in compliance with or permitted by "Federal Motor
Vehicle Safety Standard Number 205" (FMVSS 205) in effect at the time of the
manufacture of the motor vehicle as provided in subsection (a) hereof. "Federal
Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 205" (FMVSS 205), Code of Federal
Regulations, Title 49, Part 571, can be obtained online at web site http://
www.gpo.gov. (OAC 4501-41-05)
   (C)   Definitions. As used in this section, certain terms are defined as
follows:
      (1)   "Motor vehicle" has the same meaning as specified in Section
70.01.
      (2)   "Sunscreening material" means products or materials, including
film, glazing and perforated sunscreening, which, when applied to the
windshield or windows of a motor vehicle, reduce the effects of the sun with
respect to light reflectance or transmittance.
      (3)   "Transmittance" means the ratio of the amount of total light,
expressed in percentages, which is allowed to pass through the product or
material, including glazing, to the amount of total light falling on the
product or material and the glazing.
      (4)   "Windshield" means the front exterior viewing device of a motor
vehicle.
      (5)   "Window" means any device designed for exterior viewing from a
motor vehicle, except the windshield or any roof-mounted viewing device.
      (6)   "Manufacturer" unless otherwise specified in this section, means
any person who engages in the manufacturing or assembling of sunscreening
products or materials or any person who fabricates, laminates or tempers a
safety glazing material, incorporating, during the manufacturing process, the
capacity to reflect or reduce the transmission of light.
      (7)   “Chauffeured limousine” means a motor vehicle that is designed to
carry nine or fewer passengers and is operated for hire on an hourly basis
pursuant to a prearranged contract for the transportation of passengers on
public roads and highways along a route under the control of the person hiring
the vehicle and not over a defined and regular route. “Prearranged contract”
means an arrangement, made in advance of boarding, to provide transportation
from a specific location in a chauffeured limousine at a fixed rate per hour or
trip. “Chauffeured limousine” does not include any vehicle that is used
exclusively in the business of funeral directing.
(OAC 4501-41-02)
   (D)   Penalty. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.241)
COMMERCIAL AND HEAVY VEHICLES
§ 72.95 OVERSIZE OR OVERWEIGHT VEHICLE OPERATION ON STATE ROUTES; STATE PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move a vehicle or combination of vehicles
of a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified in R.C.
§§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, inclusive, or otherwise not in conformity with R.C. §§
4513.01 to 4513.37, inclusive, upon any state route within the municipality,
except pursuant to special written permit issued by the director of
transportation. Every permit shall be carried in the vehicle or combination of
vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to inspection by any police
officer.
   (B)   No holder of a permit issued by the director of transportation shall
be required to obtain any local permit or license or pay any local fee or
charge for movement on any state route within the municipality, however, it
shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or combination of vehicles upon any
roadway within the municipality which is not a state route, except pursuant to
a permit granted by the city manager and except for movement necessitated by an
emergency or for purposes of local delivery or pickup, provided the person
shall compensate for any damage to a roadway or road structure. Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.96 TRUCK ROUTES (USE OF LOCAL STREETS, ETC.).
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following words and
phrases shall have the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
      (1)   DEVIATING TRUCK. A truck which leaves and departs from a truck
route while traveling inside the city.
      (2)   TRUCK. Any vehicle designed or operated primarily for the
transportation of property, and whose body weight or combined body and load
weight exceeds 10,000 pounds.
      (3)   TRUCK ROUTE. A way over certain streets, as designated herein, over
and along which trucks coming into and going out of the city must operate.
   (B)   Application of section. All trucks within the city shall be operated
only over and along the truck routes herein established and on the other
designated streets over which truck travel is permitted.
      (1)   Exceptions. This section shall not prohibit:
         (a)   Operation on street of destination. The operation of trucks upon
any street of origin or where necessary to conduct business at a destination
point, provided truck routes are used to or from the nearest intersection to
the point of origin or destination.
         (b)   Emergency vehicles. The operation of emergency vehicles upon any
street in the city.
         (c)   Public utilities. The operation of trucks owned or operated by
the city, public utilities, any contractor or a material man, while engaged in
the repair, maintenance, or construction of streets, street improvements, or
street utilities within the city.
         (d)   Detoured trucks. The operation of trucks upon any officially
established detour in any case where the truck could lawfully be operated upon
the street for which the detour is established.
   (C)   Truck routes established. There are established within the city the
following truck routes: I.R. 75, Alex Bell Road, Dixie Drive, Central Avenue,
Miami Avenue, Crossover Road, Kimberly Lane, and Alex Road from Central Avenue
to S.R. 725.
   (D)   Truck traffic in the city.
      (1)   Outside origin; outside destination. All trucks entering the city
from points outside the city and proceeding directly to a destination point
outside the city shall operate only over the designated truck routes.
      (2)   Outside origin; inside destination.
         (a)   One inside destination point. All trucks entering the city for a
destination point in the city shall proceed only over an established truck
route and shall deviate only at the intersection nearest to the destination
point. Upon leaving the destination point, a deviating truck shall return to
the truck route by the shortest permissible route.
         (b)   Multiple inside destination points. All trucks entering the city
for multiple destination points shall proceed only over established truck
routes and shall deviate only at the intersection nearest to the first
destination point. Upon leaving the first destination point a deviating truck
shall proceed to other destination points by the shortest and most direct
course. Upon leaving the last destination point, a deviating truck shall return
to a truck route by the shortest permissible route.
      (3)   Inside origin.
         (a)   Outside destination point. All trucks, on a trip originating in
the city and traveling in the city for a destination point outside the city,
shall proceed by the shortest and most direct course over streets to a truck
route as herein established.
         (b)   Inside destination point. All trucks, on a trip originating in
the city and traveling in the city for destination points in the city, shall
proceed only by the shortest and most direct course.
   (E)   Signs. The city manager shall cause all truck routes to be clearly
sign posted to give notice that this section is in effect.
   (F)   Compliance required. No person shall drive a truck over any public
street within the city except upon those streets herein designated as truck
routes and except upon streets providing the shortest and most direct course
between truck routes and origin or destination points as herein provided.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.97 MAXIMUM WIDTH, HEIGHT, AND LENGTH.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be operated upon the public highways, streets,
bridges and culverts within the Municipality, whose dimensions exceed those
specified in this section.
   (B)   No such vehicle shall have a width in excess of:
      (1)   104 inches for passenger bus type vehicles operated exclusively
within municipal corporations;
      (2)   102 inches, excluding such safety devices as are required by law,
for passenger bus type vehicles operated over freeways, and such other State
roads with minimum pavement widths of twenty-two feet, except those roads or
portions of roads over which operation of 102-inch buses is prohibited by order
of the Ohio Director of Transportation;
      (3)   132 inches for traction engines;
      (4)   102 inches for recreational vehicles, excluding safety devices and
retracted awnings and other appurtenances of six inches or less in width and
except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch recreational
vehicles on designated State highways or portions of highways;
      (5)   102 inches, including load, for all other vehicles, except that the
Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch vehicles on such State highways
or portions of State highways as the Director designates.
   (C)   No such vehicle shall have a length in excess of:
      (1)   66 feet for passenger bus type vehicles and articulated passenger
bus type vehicles operated by a regional transit authority pursuant to Ohio
R.C. 306.30 to 306.54;
      (2)   45 feet for all other passenger bus type vehicles;
      (3)   53 feet for any semitrailer when operated in a commercial tractor-
semitrailer combination, with or without load, except that the Director may, by
journal entry, prohibit the operation of any such commercial tractor-
semitrailer combination on such State highways or portions of State highways as
the Director designates;
      (4)   28.5 feet for any semitrailer or trailer when operated in a
commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-semitrailer-
semitrailer combination, except that the Director may prohibit the operation of
any such commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-
semitrailer-semitrailer combination on such State highways or portions of State
highways as the Director designates;
      (5)   (a)   97 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle transporter
combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle transporter
combinations when operated on any interstate, United States route, or State
route, including reasonable access travel on all other roadways for a distance
not to exceed one road mile from any interstate, United States route, or State
route, not to exceed three saddlemounted vehicles, but which may include one
fullmount;
         (b)   75 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle transporter
combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle transporter
combinations, when operated on any roadway not designated as an interstate,
United States route, or State route, not to exceed three saddlemounted
vehicles, but which may include one fullmount;
      (6)   65 feet for any other combination of vehicles coupled together,
with or without load, except as provided in subsections (c)(3) and (4) and in
subsection (e) hereof;
      (7)   45 feet for recreational vehicles.
      (8)   50 feet for all other vehicles except trailers and semitrailers,
with or without load.
   (D)   No such vehicle shall have a height in excess of thirteen feet six
inches, with or without load.
   (E)   An automobile transporter or boat transporter shall be allowed a
length of sixty-five feet and a stinger-steered automobile transporter or
stinger-steered boat transporter shall be allowed a length of seventy-five
feet, except that the load thereon may extend no more than four feet beyond the
rear of such vehicles and may extend no more than three feet beyond the front
of such vehicles, and except further that the Director may prohibit the
operation of any stinger-steered automobile transporter or stinger-steered boat
transporter or a B-train assembly on any State highway or portion of any State
highway that the Director designates.
   (F)   The widths prescribed in subsection (B) shall not include side
mirrors, turn signal lamps, marker lamps, handholds for cab entry and egress,
flexible fender extensions, mud flaps, splash and spray suppressant devices,
and load-induced tire bulge.
   The width prescribed in subsection (B)(5) shall not include automatic
covering devices, tarp and tarp hardware, and tiedown assemblies, provided
these safety devices do not extend more than three inches from each side of the
vehicle.
   The lengths prescribed in subsections (C)(2) to (8) hereof shall not include
safety devices, bumpers attached to the front or rear of such bus or
combination, nonproperty carrying devices or components that do not extend more
than twenty-four inches beyond the rear of the vehicle and are needed for
loading or unloading, B-train assembly used between the first and second
semitrailer of a commercial tractor-semitrailer-semitrailer combination, energy
conservation devices as provided in any regulations adopted by the Secretary of
the United States Department of Transportation, or any noncargo-carrying
refrigeration equipment attached to the front of trailers and semitrailers. In
special cases, vehicles whose dimensions exceed those prescribed by this
section may operate in accordance with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of
Transportation.
   (G)   This section does not apply to fire engines, fire trucks or other
vehicles or apparatus belonging to any municipal corporation or to the
volunteer fire department of any municipal corporation or used by such
department in the discharge of its functions. This section does not apply to
vehicles and pole trailers used in the transportation of wooden and metal
poles, nor to the transportation of pipes or well-drilling equipment, nor to
farm machinery and equipment. The owner or operator of any vehicle, machinery
or equipment not specifically enumerated in this section but the dimensions of
which exceed the dimensions provided by this section, when operating the same
on the highways and streets of this State shall comply with the rules of the
Director governing such movement, that the Director may adopt. Ohio R.C. 119.01
to 119.13 apply to any rules the Director adopts under this section, or the
amendment or rescission of the rules, and any person adversely affected shall
have the same right of appeal as provided in those sections.
   This section does not require the State, the Municipality, County, township
or any railroad or other private corporation to provide sufficient vertical
clearance to permit the operation of such vehicle, or to make any changes in or
about existing structures now crossing streets, roads and other public
thoroughfares in the Municipality.
   (H)   As used in this section, "recreational vehicle" has the same meaning
as in Ohio R.C. 4501.01. (ORC 5577.05)
   (I)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second offense or subsequent offense, the person is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(ORC 5577.99)
§ 72.98 ROUTE AND LOAD INFORMATION.
   Drivers of vehicles described in this chapter shall be required, upon
request by police officer, to give full and true information as to the route
they are following and the name of the consignor and consignee and place of
delivery or removal and the location of any consignment being hauled or goods
being removed, and upon a designation by the police officer of a route to be
followed, shall immediately adopt and pursue the route.
§ 72.99 WHEEL PROTECTORS.
   No person shall drive or operate, or cause to be driven or operated, any
commercial car, trailer, or semitrailer, used for the transportation of goods
or property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds 3 tons, upon the
streets, bridges and culverts within this municipality unless the vehicle is
equipped with suitable metal protectors or substantial flexible flaps on the
rearmost wheels of the vehicle or combination of vehicles to prevent, as far as
practicable, the wheels from throwing dirt, water, or other materials on the
windshields of following vehicles. The protectors or flaps shall have a ground
clearance of not more than 1/3 of the distance from the center of the rearmost
axle to the center of the flaps under any conditions of loading of the vehicle,
and they shall be at least as wide as the tires they are protecting. If the
vehicle is so designed and constructed that the requirements are accomplished
by means of fenders, body construction, or other means of enclosure, then no
protectors or flaps are required. Rear wheels not covered at the top by
fenders, bodies, or other parts of the vehicle shall be covered at the top by
protective means extending at least to the center line of the rearmost axle.
(R.C. § 5577.11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.100 VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   Any person operating any vehicle transporting explosives upon a street shall
at all times comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   The vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and on the rear
with the word EXPLOSIVES in letters not less than 8 inches high, or there shall
be displayed on the rear of the vehicle a red flag not less than 24 inches
square marked with the word DANGER in white letters 6 inches high.
   (B)   The vehicle shall be equipped with not less than 2 fire extinguishers,
filled and ready for immediate use, and placed at convenient points on the
vehicle. (R.C. § 4513.29) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.101 TOWING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   When one vehicle is towing another vehicle, the drawbar or other
connection shall be of sufficient strength to pull all weight towed thereby,
and the drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one vehicle
to the other, except the connection between any 2 vehicles transporting poles,
pipe, machinery, or other objects of structural nature which cannot readily be
dismembered.
   (B)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists only of
a chain, rope, or cable, there shall be displayed upon the connection a white
flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.
   (C)   In addition to the drawbar or other connection, each trailer and each
semitrailer which is not connected to a commercial tractor by means of a fifth
wheel shall be coupled with stay chains or cables to the vehicle by which it is
being drawn. The chains or cables shall be of sufficient size and strength to
prevent the towed vehicle's parting from the drawing vehicle in case the
drawbar or other connection should break or become disengaged. In case of a
loaded pole trailer, the connecting pole to the drawing vehicle shall be
coupled to the drawing vehicle with stay chains or cables of sufficient size
and strength to prevent the towed vehicle's parting from the drawing vehicle.
   (D)   Every trailer or semitrailer, except pole and cable trailers and pole
and cable dollies operated by a public utility, as defined in R.C. § 5727.01,
shall be equipped with a coupling device which shall be so designed and
constructed that the trailer will follow substantially in the path of the
vehicle drawing it, without whipping or swerving from side to side. Vehicles
used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production materials
between a local place of storage and supply and the farm, when drawn or towed
on a street or highway at a speed of 25 m.p.h. or less, and vehicles designed
and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage and a
marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway
for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 m.p.h. or less,
shall have a drawbar or other connection, including the hitch mounted on the
towing vehicle, which shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight
towed thereby. Only one such vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials as provided in this section may be towed or
drawn at one time unless the towing vehicle is an agricultural tractor.
(R.C. § 4513.32) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.102 LOADS DROPPING OR LEAKING; REMOVAL REQUIRED; TRACKING MUD.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless such vehicle
is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping,
sifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand or other
substance may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or
other substance may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining such
roadway.
   (B)   No person shall operate any vehicle so as to track mud or other
similarly objectionable matter on the public streets, alleys, sidewalks or
other public places. It shall be incumbent upon the person depositing the
matter to forthwith remove or cause the same to be removed.
   (C)   Any mud or similarly objectionable matter deposited or placed on the
public streets, alleys, sidewalks, or other public places by any person
employed by the property owner or by his subcontractors, or at the invitation
of the property owner, shall be attributable to the owner as well as the person
depositing the matter. It shall be incumbent upon the owner as well as the
person depositing the matter to forthwith remove or cause the same to be
removed. The intent and purpose of this requirement is to place upon the owner
of property in the city and any persons employed in connection therewith or
using the property with the owner's permission a duty to control that property
so as not to allow mud or any other similarly objectionable matter from that
property to be deposited on the public streets, alleys, sidewalks, or other
public places. For a violation of this requirement, in addition to any penalty
that may be imposed, any building, electrical, or plumbing permits relating to
the property may be suspended by the city until the mud or other similarly
objectionable matter is removed.
(Ord. 1971, passed 5-25-76; amend. Ord. 2677, passed 10-25-88) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.103 SHIFTING LOAD; LOOSE LOADS.
   (A)   In addition to any other lawful requirements of load distribution, no
person shall operate any vehicle upon a street or highway unless the vehicle is
so laden as to prevent its contents from shifting or otherwise unbalancing the
vehicle to an extent as to interfere with the safe operation of the same.
   (B)   No motor vehicle or trailer shall be driven unless the tailboard or
tailgate, tarpaulins, chains (except ground or contact chains), ropes, stakes,
poles, and the like, or any part of the load, are securely fastened to prevent
dangling, flapping, swinging, or falling from the side, end, or top of the load
or body. All projecting cargo shall be properly guarded by a red flag or cloth
or a red light or lantern as required by §
72.77.
(Ord. 1971, passed 5-25-76)
   (C)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the vehicle
is so constructed, loaded, or covered as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand
or other substance may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or
water or other substance may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or
maintaining the roadway.
   (D)   Except for a farm vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials or a rubbish vehicle in the process of
acquiring its load, no vehicle loaded with garbage, swill, cans, bottles, waste
paper, ashes, refuse, trash, rubbish, waste, wire, paper, cartons, boxes,
glass, solid waste, or any other material of an unsanitary nature that is
susceptible to blowing or bouncing from a moving vehicle shall be driven or
moved on any highway unless the load is covered with a sufficient cover to
prevent the load or any part of the load, from spilling onto the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.31) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.104 VEHICLES WITH SPIKES, LUGS, AND CHAINS.
   (A)   No person shall drive over the improved streets of this municipality a
traction engine or tractor with tires or wheels equipped with ice picks, spuds,
spikes, chains or other projections of any kind extending beyond the cleats, or
no person shall tow or in any way pull another vehicle over the improved
streets of this municipality, which towed or pulled vehicle has tires or wheels
equipped with ice picks, spuds, spikes, chains or other projections of any
kind. TRACTION ENGINE or TRACTOR, as used in this section, applies to all self-
propelling engines equipped with metal-tired wheels operated or propelled by
any form of engine, motor or mechanical power.
   (B)   No person shall operate upon any street any vehicle equipped with
cleats, spikes, lugs, chains or similar devices injurious to the roadway,
except metal or other nonskid contrivances which may be used only while the
streets are slippery or covered with ice and snow.
(R.C. § 5589.08) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.105 WEIGHING VEHICLE; REMOVAL OF EXCESS LOAD.
   (A)   Any police officer having reason to believe that the weight of a
vehicle and its load is unlawful may require the driver of the vehicle to stop
and submit to a weighing of it by means of a compact, self-contained, portable,
sealed scale specially adapted to determine the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways; a sealed scale permanently installed in a fixed location, having a
load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of
highway vehicles; a sealed scale, permanently installed in a fixed location,
having a load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the combined
load of all wheels on a single axle or on successive axles of a highway
vehicle, or a sealed scale adapted to weighing highway vehicles, loaded or
unloaded. The driver of the vehicle shall, if necessary, be directed to proceed
to the nearest available of the sealed scales to accomplish the weighing,
provided the scales are within 3 miles of the point where the vehicle is
stopped. Any vehicle stopped in accordance with this section may be held by the
police officer for a reasonable time only to accomplish the weighing as
prescribed by this section. All scales used in determining the lawful weight of
a vehicle and its load shall be annually compared by a municipal, county, or
state sealer with the state standards or standards approved by the state and
the scales shall not be sealed if they do not conform to the state standards or
standards approved by the state.
   (B)   At each end of a permanently installed scale, there shall be a
straight approach in the same plane as the platform, of sufficient length and
width to insure the level positioning of vehicles during weight determinations.
   (C)   During determination of weight by compact, self-contained, portable,
sealed scales, specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways, they shall always be used on terrain of sufficient length and width
to accommodate the entire vehicle being weighed. The terrain shall be level, or
if not level, it shall be of the elevation that the difference in elevation
between the wheels on any one axle does not exceed 2 inches and the difference
in elevation between axles being weighed does not exceed 1/4 inch per foot of
the distance between the axles.
   (D)   In all determination of all weights, except gross weight, by compact,
self-contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to determining the
wheel loads of vehicles on highways, all successive axles, 12 feet or less
apart, shall be weighted simultaneously by placing one such scale under the
outside wheel of each such axle. In determinations of gross weight by the use
of compact, self-contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to
determining the wheel loads of vehicles on highways, all axles shall be weighed
simultaneously by placing one scale under the outside wheel of each axle.
   (E)   Whenever the officer upon weighing a vehicle and load determines that
the weight is unlawful, he may require the driver to stop the vehicle in a
suitable place and remain standing until the portion of the load is removed as
is necessary to reduce the weight of the vehicle to the limit permitted under
R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.14.
   (F)   Whenever the officer upon weighing a vehicle and load determines that
the weight is unlawful, he may require the driver to stop the vehicle in a
suitable place and remain standing until such portion of the load is removed as
is necessary to reduce the weight of the vehicle to the limit permitted under
R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.14, or, when compact, self-contained, portable, sealed
scales, specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways, are used, to the limits permitted under R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.14,
plus 2%.
   (G)   Whenever local authorities determine upon the basis of an engineering
and traffic investigation that the weight limits permitted under R.C. §§
5577.01 to 5577.14, or the weight limits permitted when compact, self-
contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to determining the wheel
loads of vehicles on highways, are used on any part of a state route under
their jurisdiction is greater than is reasonable under the conditions found to
exist at the location, the local authorities may, by resolution, request the
director of transportation to determine and declare reasonable weight limits.
Upon the receipt of the request the director may determine and declare
reasonable weight limits at the location, and if the director alters the weight
limits set by R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.14 and this section, then the altered
weight limits shall become effective, only when appropriate signs giving notice
thereof are erected at the location by local authorities.
   (H)   The director may withdraw his approval of any altered weight limit
whenever, in his opinion, any altered weight limit becomes unreasonable, and
upon the withdrawal the altered weight limit shall become ineffective, and the
signs relating thereto shall be immediately removed by local authorities.
Alteration of weight limits on state routes by local authorities is not
effective until alteration has been approved by the director.
(R.C. § 4513.33)
§ 72.106 WARNING DEVICES REQUIRED; DISPLAY WHEN DISABLED.
   (A)   No person shall operate any commercial motor truck, bus, or commercial
tractor upon any street or highway unless such vehicle shall carry any flares,
fusees, red reflectors, lanterns, and flags required by and conforming to the
requirements of the laws of this state and the regulations of the director of
transportation.
   (B)   Whenever any motor truck, bus, commercial tractor, trailer,
semitrailer, or pole trailer is disabled upon any freeway, expressway, thruway
and connecting, entering or exiting ramps within this municipality, at any time
when lighted lamps are required on vehicles and the operator of the vehicle
shall display the following warning devices upon the highway during the time
the vehicle is so disabled on the highway except as provided in division (C) of
this section:
      (1)   A lighted fusee shall be immediately placed on the roadway at the
traffic side of the vehicle, unless red electric lanterns or red reflectors are
displayed.
      (2)   Within the burning period of the fuse and as promptly as possible,
3 lighted flares or pot torches, or 3 red reflectors or 3 red electric lanterns
shall be placed on the roadway as follows:
         (a)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet in
advance of the vehicle;
         (b)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet to the
rear of the vehicle except as provided in this section, each in the center of
the lane of traffic occupied by the disabled vehicle;
         (c)   One at the traffic side of the vehicle.
   (C)   Whenever any vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, is disabled upon a highway at
any time or place mentioned in division (B) of this section, the driver of the
vehicle shall display upon the roadway the following warning devices:
      (1)   One red electric lantern or one red reflector shall be immediately
placed on the roadway at the traffic side of the vehicle;
      (2)   Two other red electric lanterns or 2 other red reflectors shall be
placed to the front and rear of the vehicle in the same manner prescribed for
flares in division (B) of this section.
   (D)   When a vehicle of a type specified in division (C) of this section is
disabled, the use of flares, fusees, or any signal produced by flame as warning
signals is prohibited.
   (E)   Whenever any vehicle of a type referred to in this section is disabled
upon any freeway, expressway, thruway and connecting, entering or exiting ramps
within the municipality, at any time when the display of fusees, flares, red
reflectors, or electric lanterns is not required, the operator of the vehicle
shall display 2 red flags upon the roadway in the lane of traffic occupied by
the disabled vehicle, one at a distances of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet
in advance of the vehicle and one at a distance of 40 paces or approximately
100 feet to the rear of the vehicle, except as provided in this section.
   (F)   The flares, fusees, lanterns, red reflectors, and flags to be
displayed as required in this section shall conform with the requirements of §
4513.27 of the Revised Code applicable thereto.
   (G)   In the event the vehicle is disabled near a curve, crest of a hill, or
other obstruction of view, the flare, flag, reflector, or lantern in that
direction shall be placed as to afford ample warning to other users of the
highway, but in no case shall it be placed less than 40 paces or approximately
100 feet nor more than 120 paces or approximately 300 feet from the disabled
vehicle.
   (H)   This section does not apply to the operator of any vehicle in a work
are designated by protection equipment devices that are displayed and used in
accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation under
R.C. § 4511.09.
(R.C. § 4513.28) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.107 JAKE-BRAKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use or operate
or cause to be used or operated within the City, any mechanical exhaust device
designed to aid in the braking or deceleration of any vehicle which results in
the excessive, loud, unusual or explosive noise from such vehicle, or otherwise
known as jake-braking.
   (B)   Signs shall be posted at all major points into the City indicating
that all such mechanical exhaust braking systems are prohibited in the City.
   (C)   Whoever violates the provisions of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each subsequent offense within one year
after the first offense such person is guilty of a third degree misdemeanor.
(Ord. 3144. Passed 10-26-99.)
DRIVERS OF COMMERCIAL CARS OR TRACTORS
§ 72.110 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following words and phrases shall
have the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   APPORTIONABLE VEHICLE. Any vehicle used or intended for use in two or more
international registration plan member jurisdictions that allocate or
proportionally register vehicles, that is used for the transportation of
persons for hire or designed, used, or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property, and that meets any of the following qualifications:
      (1)   Is a power unit having a gross vehicle weight in excess of 26,000
pounds;
      (2)   Is a power unit having three or more axles, regardless of the gross
vehicle weight; or
      (3)   Is a combination vehicle with a gross vehicle weight in excess of
26,000 pounds.
   APPORTIONABLE VEHICLE does not include recreational vehicles, vehicles
displaying restricted plates, city pick-up and delivery vehicles, buses used
for the transportation of chartered parties, or vehicles owned and operated by
the United States, this state, or any political subdivisions thereof.
   CHARTERED PARTY. A group of persons who contract as a group to acquire the
exclusive use of a passenger-carrying motor vehicle at a fixed charge for the
vehicle in accordance with the carrier's tariff, lawfully on file with the
United Stated Department of Transportation, for the purpose of group travel to
a specified destination or for a particular itinerary, either agreed upon in
advance or modified by the chartered group after having left the place of
origin.
   CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE. A motor vehicle designed to carry nine or fewer
passengers and operated for hire on an hourly basis pursuant to a prearranged
contract for the transportation of passengers on public roads and highways
along a route under the control of the person hiring the vehicle and not over a
defined and regular route. PREARRANGED CONTRACT means an agreement, made in
advance of boarding, to provide transportation from a specific location in a
chauffeured limousine at a fixed rate per hour or trip. CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE
does not include any vehicle used exclusively in the business of funeral
directing.
   COMBINED GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT. With regard to any combination of a
commercial car, trailer and semitrailer, that is taxed at the rates established
under R.C. § 4503.042, means the total unladen weight of the combination of
vehicles fully equipped plus the maximum weight of the load to be carried on
that combination of vehicles.
   COMMERCIAL CAR. Any motor vehicle having motor power designed and used for
carrying merchandise or freight, or used as a commercial tractor.
   COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Except as defined in §
70.01 (B), means any motor vehicle having motive power designed or used for
drawing other motor vehicles, or designed or used for drawing another motor
vehicle while carrying a portion of such other motor vehicle or its load, or
both.
   GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT. With regard to any commercial car, trailer,
semitrailer or bus that is taxed at the rates established under R.C. §
4503.042, means the unladen weight of the vehicle fully equipped plus the
maximum weight of the load to be carried on the vehicle.
   INTERNATIONAL REGISTRATION PLAN. A reciprocal agreement of member
jurisdictions that is endorsed by the American Association of Motor Vehicle
Administrators, and that promotes and encourages the fullest possible use of
the highway system by authorizing apportioned registration of fleets of
vehicles and recognizing registration of vehicles apportioned in member
jurisdictions.
   OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation other than a manufacturer or dealer
having title to a motor vehicle; except that in §
72.62 it includes in addition manufacturers and dealers.
   RESTRICTED PLATE. A license plate that has a restriction of time, geographic
area, mileage or commodity, and includes license plates issued to farm trucks
under R.C. § 4503.04(K).
(R.C. § 4501.01)
§ 72.111 DRIVING OR PERMITTING DRIVING WHILE FATIGUED OR ILL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle as defined in R.C. §
4506.01 or commercial car or commercial tractor, as defined herein, while his
ability or alertness is so impaired by fatigue, illness or other causes that it
is unsafe for him to drive a vehicle. No driver shall use any drug which would
adversely affect his ability or alertness.
   (B)   No owner, as defined herein, of a commercial motor vehicle, commercial
car, or commercial tractor, or a person employing or otherwise directing the
driver of the vehicle, shall require or knowingly permit a driver in any such
condition described in division (A) of this section to drive the vehicle upon
any street or highway.
(R.C. § 4511.79) Penalty, see §
70.99
ALL PURPOSE VEHICLES AND SNOWMOBILES
§ 72.120 OPERATION BY PERSON UNDER SIXTEEN YEARS OF AGE.
   (A)   No person who does not hold a valid, current motor vehicle driver's or
commercial driver's license, motorcycle operator's endorsement or probationary
license issued under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4506 or 4507, or a valid, current
driver's license issued by another jurisdiction, shall operate a snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle, or all purpose vehicle on any street or highway, on any
portion of the right of way thereof, or on any public land or waters. This
subsection shall not be construed to permit the holder of such a license to
operate a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all purpose vehicle in
violation of Ohio R.C. 4519.40.
   (B)   No person who is less than sixteen years of age shall operate a
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all purpose vehicle on any land or
waters other than private property or waters owned by or leased to such
person's parent or guardian, unless accompanied by another person who is
eighteen years of age, or older, and who holds a license as provided in
subsection (a) hereof, except that the Ohio Department of Natural Resources may
permit such operation on State controlled land under its jurisdiction when such
person is less than sixteen years of age and is accompanied by a parent or
guardian who is a licensed driver eighteen years of age or older.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), imprisoned not
less than three nor more than thirty days, or both. (ORC 4519.44)
CIVIL PENALTIES FOR AUTOMATED RED LIGHT AND SPEEDING SYSTEM VIOLATIONS
§ 72.130 AUTOMATED RED LIGHT AND SPEEDING SYSTEM/CIVIL VIOLATION - GENERAL.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Traffic Code, the City of
West Carrollton hereby adopts a civil enforcement system for red light and
speeding camera system violations as outlined in this section. Said system
imposes monetary liability on the owner of a vehicle for failure of an operator
thereof to comply with traffic control indications in the City of West
Carrollton in accordance with the provisions of this Section.
   (B)   The City of West Carrollton Service Division, the West Carrollton
Police Department, and the West Carrollton Law Director shall be responsible
for administering the Automated Red Light and Speeding System. Specifically,
the West Carrollton Service Division and the West Carrollton Police Department
shall be empowered to install and operate red light and speeding camera systems
within the City of West Carrollton. And, the West Carrollton Service Division
and the West Carrollton Police Department shall maintain a list of system
locations where red light and speeding camera systems are installed. Said
departments will make the determination as to which locations will be utilized.
(Ord. 3387. Passed 7-8-08.)
   (C)   Offense.
      (1)   The owner of a vehicle shall be liable for a penalty imposed
pursuant to this section if such vehicle crosses a marked stop line or the
intersection plane at a system intersection when the traffic signal for that
vehicle’s direction is emitting a steady red light.
      (2)   The owner of a vehicle shall be liable for a penalty imposed
pursuant to this section if such vehicle is operated at a speed in excess of
those set forth in Section
72.47.
      (3)   It is prima facie evidence that the person registered as the owner
of the vehicle with the Ohio Bureau of Motor Vehicles (or with any other State
vehicle registration office) was operating the vehicle at the time of the
offense set out in subsection (C)(1) above.
      (4)   Notwithstanding subsection (C)(3) above, the owner of the vehicle
shall not be responsible for the violation if, within twenty-one (21) days from
the date listed on the “Notice of Liability”, as set forth in subsection (D)(3)
below, he furnishes the Hearing Officer:
         a.   An affidavit, stating the name and address of the person or
entity who leased, rented or otherwise had the care, custody and control of the
vehicle at the time of the violation; OR
         b.   At the time of the infraction, the vehicle was in the custody of
someone other than its owner pursuant to a written lease or rental agreement
and the owner, or agent, submits, to the address listed on the ticket, either a
copy of the lease or rental agreement along with the name and address of the
lessee or renter; OR
         c.   A law enforcement incident report/general offense report from any
state or local law enforcement agency/record bureau stating that the vehicle
involved was reported as stolen before the time of the violation.
      (5)   An imposition of liability under the section shall not be deemed a
conviction as an operator and shall not be made part of the operating record
upon whom such liability is imposed.
      (6)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the liability
of an operator of a vehicle for any violation of subsection (C)(1) or (C)(2)
herein.
      (7)   This section shall not apply to violations involving vehicle
collisions.
   (D)   Penalty; Administrative Appeal:
      (1)   Any violation of subsection (C)(1) herein shall be deemed a
noncriminal violation for which a civil penalty of ($100.00) shall be assessed
and for which no points authorized by Ohio R.C.
4507.021 (“Point system for license suspension”) shall be assigned to the owner
or driver of the vehicle.
      (2)   Any violation of subsection (C)(2) herein shall be deemed a
noncriminal violation for which a civil penalty of ($100.00) shall be assessed
and for which no points authorized by Ohio R.C. 4507.021 (“Point system for
license suspension”) shall be assigned to the owner or driver of the vehicle.
      (3)   The City of West Carrollton, via its Service Division, Police
Department, Law Department and Court Clerk may establish procedures for the
collection of the civil penalties imposed herein, and may enforce the penalties
by a civil action in the nature of a debt.
      (4)   A notice of appeal shall be filed with the Hearing Officer within
twenty-one ( 21) days from the date listed on the “Notice of Liability”. The
failure to give notice of appeal or pay the civil penalty within this time
period shall constitute a waiver of the right to contest the citation and will
be considered an admission.
         a.   A person who received a Notice of Liability may appeal the Notice
of Liability by making a written request for a hearing to the address listed on
the Notice of Liability. Said request shall be accompanied by a monetary
deposit in the form of a Money Order or Personal Check made payable to Red Flex
for an amount equal to the amount of the administrative fine listed on the
Notice of Liability.
         b.   If the Hearing Officer determines that the person who received
the Notice of Liability is not responsible, then the monetary deposit will be
returned to them at the time of the hearing.
         c.   If the Hearing Officer determines that the person who received
the Notice of Liability is responsible then the monetary deposit will be
forwarded to Red Flex via the proper payment channels.
      (5)   Appeals shall be heard through an administrative process
established by the City of West Carrollton Police Department. A decision in
favor of the City of West Carrollton may be enforced by means of a civil action
or any other means provided by the Ohio Revised Code.
      (6)   Members of the Police Department are authorized to impound,
immobilize, remove, or direct the removal of a vehicle as authorized by Section
 70.12.
(Ord. 3495. Passed 12-27-11.)
§ 72.131 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   “Automated red light and speeding system” is the equivalent of
“Traffic control signal monitoring device” or “Traffic control photographic
system”. Said system/device is an electronic system consisting of a
photographic, video or electronic camera and a vehicle sensor installed to work
alone or in conjunction with an official traffic controller and to
automatically produce photographs, video or digital images of each vehicle
violating a standard traffic control.
   (B)   “In operation” means operating in good working condition.
   (C)   “System location” is the approach to an intersection or a street
toward which a photographic, video or electronic camera is directed and is in
operation. It is the location where the automated camera system is installed to
monitor offenses under this Section.
   (D)   “Vehicle owner” is the person or entity identified by the Ohio Bureau
of Motor Vehicles, or registered with any other State vehicle registration
office, as the registered owner of a vehicle. (Ord. 3387. Passed 7-8-08.)
§ 72.132 OFFENSE.
   (A)   The owner of a vehicle shall be liable for a penalty imposed pursuant
to this Section if such vehicle crosses a marked stop line or the intersection
plane at a system location when the traffic signal for that vehicle’s direction
is emitting a steady red light.
   (B)   The owner of a vehicle shall be liable for a penalty imposed pursuant
to this Section if such vehicle is operated at a speed in excess of those set
forth in Section
72.47.
   (C)   It is prima facie evidence that the person registered as the owner of
the vehicle with the Ohio Bureau of Motor Vehicles (or with any other State
vehicle registration office) was operating the vehicle at the time of the
offense set out in subsection (A) above.
   (D)   Notwithstanding subsection (C) above, the owner of the vehicle shall
not be responsible for the violation if, within twenty-one (21) days from the
date listed on the “Notice of Liability”, as set forth in Section
72.133(C) below, he furnishes the Hearing Officer:
      (1)   An affidavit, stating the name and address of the person or entity
who leased, rented, or otherwise had the care, custody and control of the
vehicle at the time of the violation; or
      (2)   A law enforcement incident report/general offense report from any
state or local law enforcement agency/record bureau stating that the vehicle
involved was reported as stolen before the time of the violation.
   (E)   An imposition of liability under the Section shall not be deemed a
conviction as an operator and shall not be made part of the operating record
upon whom such liability is imposed.
   (F)   Nothing in this Section shall be construed to limit the liability of
an operator of a vehicle for any violation of subsection (A) or (B) herein.
   (G)   This Section shall not apply to violations involving vehicle
collisions.
(Ord. 3387. Passed 7-8-08.)
§ 72.133 PENALTY; ADMINISTRATIVE APPEAL.
   (A)   Any violation of Section
72.132(A) herein shall be deemed a non-criminal violation for which a civil
penalty of ($100.00) shall be assessed and for which no points authorized by
Ohio R.C. 4507.021 (“Point system for license suspension”) shall be assigned to
the owner or driver of the vehicle.
   (B)   Any violation of Section
72.132(B) herein shall be deemed a non-criminal violation for which a civil
penalty of ($100.00) shall be assessed and for which no points authorized by
Ohio R.C. 4507.021 (“Point system for license suspension”) shall be assigned to
the owner or driver of the vehicle.
   (C)   The City of West Carrollton, via its Service Division, Police
Department, Law Department, and Court Clerk may establish procedures for the
collection of the civil penalties imposed herein, and may enforce the penalties
by a civil action in the nature of a debt.
   (D)   A notice of appeal shall be filed with the Hearing Officer within
twenty-one (21) days from the date listed on the “Notice of Liability”. The
failure to give notice of appeal or pay the civil penalty within this time
period shall constitute a waiver of the right to contest the citation and will
be considered an admission. Appeals shall be heard through an administrative
process established by the City of West Carrollton Police Department. A
decision in favor of the City of West Carrollton may be enforced by means of a
civil action or any other means provided by the Ohio Revised Code. (Ord. 3387.
Passed 7-8-08.)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING
Section
Parking Generally
73.01   Police may remove unattended vehicle which obstructs traffic
73.02   Registered owner prima facie liable for unlawful parking
73.03   Prohibited standing or parking places
73.04   Parking near curb; privileges for handicapped
73.05   Maximum 72 hour parking
73.06   Selling, washing or repairing vehicle upon roadway
73.07   Unattended vehicle: duty to stop engine, remove key, set brake and turn
wheels
73.08   Opening vehicle door on traffic side
73.09   Truck loading zones
73.10   Bus stops and taxicab stands
73.11   Parking in alleys and narrow streets; exceptions
73.12   Prohibition against parking on streets or highways
73.13   Truck, trailer, and semitrailer parking
73.14   Authority to suspend or vary parking violations
Parking Meters
73.15   Definitions
73.16   Parking within marked lines of meter space; exceptions
73.17   Deposit of coin required; illegal parking
73.18   Parking prohibited in meter space
73.19   Defacing meter; use of slugs
73.20   Parking meter hours, location and coin deposit
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 73.01 POLICE MAY REMOVE UNATTENDED VEHICLE WHICH OBSTRUCTS TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of § 4511.66 of the Revised Code, the officer may move the vehicle,
or require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move the
same, to a position off the paved or improved or main traveled part of the
highway.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any
highway, bridge, or causeway, or in any tunnel, where the vehicle constitutes
an obstruction to traffic, the officer may provide for the removal of the
vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(R.C. § 4511.67)
§ 73.02 REGISTERED OWNER PRIMA FACIE LIABLE FOR UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   In any hearing on a charge of illegally parking a motor vehicle, testimony
that a vehicle bearing a certain license plate was found unlawfully parked as
prohibited by the provisions of this title, and further testimony that the
record of the registrar of motor vehicles shows that the license plate was
issued to the defendant, shall be prima facie evidence that the vehicle which
was unlawfully parked, was so parked by the defendant. A certified registration
copy, showing the fact, from the registrar shall be proof of his ownership.
§ 73.03 PROHIBITED STANDING OR PARKING PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or to comply with the provisions of this
Traffic Code, or while obeying the directions of a police officer or a traffic
control device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk, curb or street lawn area, except as provided in
subsection (b) hereof;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within twenty feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within thirty feet of, and upon the approach to, any flashing
beacon, stop sign or traffic control device;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
of points on the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by a traffic control device;
      (9)   Within fifty feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within twenty feet of a driveway entrance to any fire station and,
on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within
seventy-five feet of the entrance when it is properly posted with signs;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   Alongside any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a street, or
within a street tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where signs prohibit stopping, standing or parking,
or where the curbing or street is painted yellow, or at any place in excess of
the maximum time limited by signs;
      (15)   Within one foot of another parked vehicle;
      (16)   On the roadway portion of a freeway, expressway or thruway.
   (B)   A person is permitted, without charge or restriction, to stand or park
on a sidewalk a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter that has an engine not
larger than 150 cubic centimeters, a low-speed micromobility device, or a
bicycle or electric bicycle, provided that the motor-driven cycle, motor
scooter, low-speed micromobility device, bicycle, or electric bicycle does not
impede the normal flow of pedestrian traffic. This division does not authorize
any person to operate a vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.711, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.68) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.04 PARKING NEAR CURB; PRIVILEGES FOR HANDICAPPED.
   (A)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the curb side wheels of the
vehicle parallel with and not more than twelve inches from the curb, unless it
is impossible to approach so close to the curb; in such case the stop shall be
as close to the curb as possible and only for the time necessary to discharge
and receive passengers or to load or unload merchandise.
   (B)   (1)   This subsection does not apply to streets or parts thereof where
angle parking is lawfully permitted. However, no angle parking shall be
permitted on a state route unless an unoccupied roadway width of not less than
twenty-five feet is available for free-moving traffic.
      (2)   a.   No angled parking space that is located on a state route
within a municipal corporation is subject to elimination, irrespective of
whether there is or is not at least twenty-five feet of unoccupied roadway
width available for free-moving traffic at the location of that angled parking
space, unless the municipal corporation approves of the elimination of the
angled parking space.
         b.   Replacement, repainting or any other repair performed by or on
behalf of the municipal corporation of the lines that indicate the angled
parking space does not constitute an intent by the municipal corporation to
eliminate the angled parking space.
   (C)   (1)   a.   Except as provided in subsection (C)(1)(b) hereof, no
vehicle shall be stopped or parked on a road or highway with the vehicle facing
in a direction other than the direction of travel on that side of the road or
highway.
         b.   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into an
angled parking space so that when the motorcycle is parked it is facing in a
direction other than the direction of travel on the side of the road or
highway.
      (2)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into a parking
space that is located on the side of, and parallel to, a road or highway. The
motorcycle may face any direction when so parked. Not more than two motorcycles
at a time shall be parked in a parking space as described in subsection (C)(2)
of this section irrespective of whether or not the space is metered.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any provision of this Code or any rule, air
compressors, tractors, trucks and other equipment, while being used in the
construction, reconstruction, installation, repair or removal of facilities
near, on, over or under a street, may stop, stand or park where necessary in
order to perform such work, provided a flagperson is on duty, or warning signs
or lights are displayed as may be prescribed by the Ohio Director of
Transportation.
   (E)   Accessible parking locations and privileges for persons with
disabilities that limit or impair the ability to walk shall be provided and
designated by all political subdivisions and by the state and all agencies and
instrumentalities thereof at all offices and facilities where parking is
provided, whether owned, rented, or leased, and at all publicly owned parking
garages. The locations shall be designated through the posting of an elevated
sign, whether permanently affixed or movable, imprinted with the international
symbol of access and shall be reasonably close to exits, entrances, elevators,
and ramps. All elevated signs posted in accordance with this division and R.C.
§ 3781.111(C) shall be mounted on a fixed or movable post, and the distance
from the ground to the bottom edge of the sign shall measure not less than five
feet. If a new sign or a replacement sign designating an accessible parking
location is posted on or after October 14, 1999, there also shall be affixed
upon the surface of that sign or affixed next to the designating sign a notice
that states the fine applicable for the offense of parking a motor vehicle in
the designated accessible parking location if the motor vehicle is not legally
entitled to be parked in that location.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle at
accessible parking locations provided under division (E) of this section, or at
accessible clearly marked parking locations provided in or on privately owned
parking lots, parking garages, or other parking areas and designated in
accordance with that division, unless one of the following applies:
            1.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a valid removable windshield placard or accessible license plates;
or
            2.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability and is displaying a parking card or accessible
license plates.
         (b)   Any motor vehicle that is parked in an accessible marked parking
location in violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section
may be towed or otherwise removed from the parking location by the law
enforcement agency of the municipality. A motor vehicle that is so towed or
removed shall not be released to its owner until the owner presents proof of
ownership of the motor vehicle and pays all towing and storage fees normally
imposed by the municipality for towing and storing motor vehicles. If the motor
vehicle is a leased vehicle, it shall not be released to the lessee until the
lessee presents proof that that person is the lessee of the motor vehicle and
pays all towing and storage fees normally imposed by the municipality for
towing and storing motor vehicles.
         (c)   If a person is charged with a violation of division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section, it is an affirmative defense to the charge that
the person suffered an injury not more than 72 hours prior to the time the
person was issued the ticket or citation and that, because of the injury, the
person meets at least one of the criteria contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
      (2)    No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle in an area
that is commonly known as an access aisle, which area is marked by diagonal
stripes and is located immediately adjacent to an accessible parking location
provided under division (E) of this section or at an accessible clearly marked
parking location provided in or on a privately owned parking lot, parking
garage, or other parking area and designated in accordance with that division.
   (G)   When a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a
person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a removable windshield placard or accessible license plates, or when
a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a person with a
disability and is displaying a parking card or accessible license plates, the
motor vehicle is permitted to park for a period of two hours in excess of the
legal parking period permitted by local authorities, except where local
ordinances or police rules provide otherwise or where the vehicle is parked in
such a manner as to be clearly a traffic hazard.
   (H)   No owner of an office, facility, or parking garage where accessible
parking locations are required to be designated in accordance with division (E)
of this section shall fail to properly mark the accessible parking locations in
accordance with that division or fail to maintain the markings of the
accessible locations, including the erection and maintenance of the fixed or
movable signs.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a person or
organization to apply for a removable windshield placard or accessible license
plates if the parking card or accessible license plates issued to the person or
organization under prior law have not expired or been surrendered or revoked.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      ACCESSIBLE LICENSE PLATES and REMOVABLE WINDSHIELD PLACARD. Mean any
license plates, standard removable windshield placard, permanent removable
windshield placard, or temporary removable windshield placard issued under R.C.
§ 4503.41 or 4503.44, and also mean any substantially similar license plates or
removable windshield placard issued by a state, district, country, or
sovereignty.
      PERSON WITH A DISABILITY. Means any person who has lost the use of one or
both legs or one or both arms, who is blind, deaf, or unable to move without
the aid of crutches or a wheelchair, or whose mobility is restricted by a
permanent cardiovascular, pulmonary, or other disabling condition.
      PERSON WITH A DISABILITY THAT LIMITS OR IMPAIRS THE ABILITY TO WALK. Has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 4503.44.
   (K)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (A) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in
division (K)(2)(a) and (K)(2)(b) of this section. Except as otherwise provided
in division (K)(2)(a) of this section, an offender who violates division (F)(1)
(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section shall be fined not less than $250 nor more
than $500. An offender who violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section shall be fined not more than $100 if the offender, prior to sentencing,
proves either of the following to the satisfaction of the court:
            1.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a removable windshield placard that then was
valid or accessible license plates that then were valid but the offender or the
person neglected to display the placard or license plates as described in
division (F)(1)(a)1. of this section.
            2.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a parking card that then was valid or accessible
license plates that then were valid but the offender or the person neglected to
display the card or license plates as described in division (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section.
         (b)   In no case shall an offender who violates division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. be sentenced to any term of imprisonment.
         (c)   An arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section does not constitute a criminal record and need
not be reported by the person so arrested or convicted in response to any
inquiries contained in any application for employment, license, or other right
or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s appearance as a witness.
         (d)   The clerk of the court shall pay every fine collected under
divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of this section to the municipality. Except as
provided in division (K)(2) of this section, the municipality shall use the
fine moneys it receives under divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of this section to
pay the expenses it incurs in complying with the signage and notice
requirements contained in division (E) of this section. The municipality may
use up to 50% of each fine it receives under divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of
this section to pay the costs of educational, advocacy, support, and assistive
technology programs for persons with disabilities, and for public improvements
within the municipality that benefit or assist persons with disabilities, if
governmental agencies or nonprofit organizations offer the programs.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F)(2) of this section shall be fined not
less than $250 nor more than $500. In no case shall an offender who violates
division (F)(2) of this section be sentenced to any term of imprisonment. An
arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(2) of this section does
not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries contained in any application
for employment, license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection
with the person’s appearance as a witness.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (H) of this section shall be punished as
follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (K)(4) of this section,
the offender shall be issued a warning.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (H) of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to that division, the offender shall
not be issued a warning but shall be fined not more than $25 for each parking
location that is not properly marked or whose markings are not properly
maintained.
(R.C. § 4511.69)
   (L)   At the request of a handicapped person, as defined in division (J)
above, the city may designate specific areas on any street, alley, or other
public property exclusively for the parking of vehicles operated or used for
the transportation of handicapped persons, to facilitate the ingress and egress
of that handicapped person to his place of residence. Any non-handicapped
person found parking or standing a vehicle in an area designated solely for
parking by handicapped persons, shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2353, passed 12-14-82)
§ 73.05 MAXIMUM 72 HOUR PARKING.
   Except as provided in §
73.13 hereof, no person shall park a vehicle on any street, alley, or other
public property in excess of 72 consecutive hours. Due notice to move the
vehicle shall be given to the owner if his identity can be reasonably
ascertained. If not moved within a reasonable time after the expiration of 72
hours, any police officer may move the vehicle or have it moved, and any
expenses incurred in moving the vehicle shall be assessed against the owner of
the vehicle.
(Ord. 2080, passed 4-25-78)
§ 73.06 SELLING, WASHING OR REPAIRING VEHICLE UPON ROADWAY.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle upon any roadway for the
principal purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying any vehicle for sale;
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing any vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
§ 73.07 UNATTENDED VEHICLE: DUTY TO STOP ENGINE, REMOVE KEY, SET BRAKE, AND
TURN WHEELS.
   (A)   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to
stand unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition,
removing the key from the ignition, effectively setting the parking brake, and,
when the motor vehicle is standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to
the curb or side of the highway.
   The requirements of this section relating to the stopping of the engine,
locking of the ignition and removing the key from the ignition of a motor
vehicle do not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   A motor vehicle that is parked on residential property;
      (2)   A motor vehicle that is locked, regardless of where it is parked;
      (3)   An emergency vehicle;
      (4)   A public safety vehicle.
   (B)   The requirements of this section relating to the stopping of the
engine, locking of the ignition, and removing the key from the ignition of a
motor vehicle shall not apply to an emergency vehicle or a public safety
vehicle. (R.C. § 4511.661) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.08 OPENING VEHICLE DOOR ON TRAFFIC SIDE.
   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to moving
traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers. (R.C. §
4511.70 (C)) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.09 TRUCK LOADING ZONES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup and
loading of materials in any place marked as a truck loading zone during hours
when the provision applicable to the zones are in effect. In no case shall the
stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes. Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.10 BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when any stop or stand has
been officially designated and appropriately posted, except that the driver of
a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when the stopping does not
interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter the zone,
and then only for a period not to exceed 3 minutes, if the stopping is not
prohibited there in by posted signs.
   (B)   The operator of a bus shall not stop, stand, or park the vehicle upon
any street at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or
their baggage other than at a bus stop so designated and posted as such, except
in case of an emergency.
   (C)   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop on a public street in
such a manner that the bus when stopped to load or unload passengers or baggage
shall be in a position with the right front wheel of the vehicle not further
than 18 inches from the curb and the bus approximately parallel to the curb so
as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular traffic.
   (D)   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park the vehicle upon any
street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so designated and posted as
such. This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking provisions at
any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers. Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.11 PARKING IN ALLEYS AND NARROW STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street, other
than an alley, in a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less
than 10 feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic, except that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or
unloading of passengers or when directed to by a police officer or traffic
control signal.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle within an alley except while actually loading and unloading, and
then only for a period not to exceed 30 minutes. Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.12 PROHIBITION AGAINST PARKING ON STREETS OR HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Upon any street or highway outside a business or residence district,
no person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended or
unattended, upon the paved or main traveled part of the street or highway if it
is practicable to stop, park or so leave the vehicle off the paved or main
traveled part of the street or highway. In every event, a clear and
unobstructed portion of the street or highway opposite the standing vehicle
shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view of the
stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each
direction upon the street or highway.
   (B)   This section does not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or improved or main traveled portion of a street or
highway in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid
stopping and temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle in such position.
(R.C. § 4511.66)
   (C)   No recreational vehicle exceeding 19 feet in total length, or 8 feet
in width, or 8 feet 6 inches in height shall park in a public street or city
right-of-way for more than 12 hours. (Ord. 2640, passed 1-26-88) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.13 TRUCK, TRAILER, AND SEMITRAILER PARKING.
   Parking on any public street, alley, or other public property for more than
one hour by trucks, trailers, or semitrailers so designed as to be dependent
upon commercial tractors for motive power is prohibited, other than temporary
parking for the purpose of and while actually involved in loading or unloading.
This section shall not apply to those trucks commonly known as pick-up trucks.
(Ord. 2080, passed 4-25-78) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.14 AUTHORITY TO SUSPEND OR VARY PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   The City Manager shall have the authority, after obtaining approval from
Council, to suspend or vary the requirements of these parking regulations to
accommodate persons attending special events in the city. (Ord. 2713, passed 6-
19-89)
PARKING METERS
§ 73.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   (A)   PARKING METER. A mechanical device installed for the regulation of
parking by lawful authority. Each parking meter shall contain a slot for the
deposit of lawful coin of the United States and a receptacle for receiving and
storing the coin. Each parking meter shall display brief directions as to its
operation and the value of lawful coin required to be deposited. Each parking
meter shall contain a timing mechanism which shall indicate either a balance of
legal parking time or overtime parking by an appropriate signal at the
expiration of the lawful time.
   (B)   PARKING METER SPACE. A space within a parking meter area, which is
designated for the parking of a single vehicle by marked lines on the curb or
paved surface area adjacent to a parking meter. Posted notice on the meter or
on signs shall indicate the maximum consecutive parking time limit during which
a vehicle may be legally parked in a particular parking meter space and the
days and hours when the requirement to deposit lawful coin shall apply.
§ 73.16 PARKING WITHIN MARKED LINES OF METER SPACE; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall park a vehicle in a parking meter space in a way that the
vehicle shall not be entirely within the limits of the space so designated by
marked lines, except for trucks, trailers or semitrailers which are parked only
during loading or unloading operations. Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.17 DEPOSIT OF COIN REQUIRED; ILLEGAL PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall cause, allow or permit a vehicle to occupy a parking
meter space during the hours when the provisions applicable to the space are in
effect, unless he shall deposit a lawful coin of the United States of
appropriate denomination in the adjacent parking meter, as required by
directions on the meter. The person is not required to deposit a coin in a
meter which indicates a balance of unused legal parking time left by the
previous occupant of the space, so long as his occupancy of the space does not
exceed the indicated unused parking time. The parking meter space may be
lawfully occupied by the vehicle during the balance of legal parking time shown
on the meter provided the occupancy does not exceed the established maximum
time limit.
   (B)   No person shall fail to comply with directions displayed on the
parking meter or fail to set the timing mechanism in operation when so
required.
   (C)   No person shall cause, allow or permit a vehicle to occupy a meter
space beyond the maximum consecutive parking time limit lawfully prescribed,
for the particular space, occupied, by appropriate notice on the meter or on
posted signs, irrespective of the number or amount of coin deposited in such
meter. Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.18 PARKING PROHIBITED IN METER SPACE.
   Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter, no person shall park in a
parking meter space when otherwise directed by a police officer or fireman or
when parking is prohibited by properly posted signs.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.19 DEFACING METER; USE OF SLUGS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Deface, injure, tamper, open or willfully break, destroy or impair the
usefulness of any parking meter.
   (B)   Cause, allow or permit any token, slug, false or counterfeited coin,
device or other substance to be deposited in a parking meter.
§ 73.20 PARKING METER HOURS, LOCATION AND COIN DEPOSIT.
   The director of safety by regulation shall establish the hours that parking
meters are required to be operated, the location of parking meters and the
amount of lawful coin required to be deposited therein for legal occupancy of a
parking meter space by a vehicle.
CHAPTER 74: PEDESTRIANS, BICYCLES, AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
Pedestrians
74.01   Right-of-way in crosswalk
74.02   Right-of-way of blind person
74.03   Crossing roadway outside crosswalk; diagonal crossings at intersections
74.04   Moving upon right half of crosswalk
74.05   Walking along highways
74.06   Use of highway for soliciting; riding on outside of vehicles
74.07   Right-of-way on sidewalk
74.08   Yielding to public safety vehicle
74.09   Walking on highway while under the influence
74.10   On bridges or railroad crossings
74.11   Electric personal assistive mobility devices
74.12   Operation of personal delivery device on sidewalks and crosswalks
74.13   Low-speed micromobility devices
Bicycles and Motorcycles
74.15   Code application to bicycles
74.16   Riding upon seats; handle bars; helmet and glasses
74.17   Attaching bicycle or sled to vehicle
74.18   Riding bicycles and motorcycles abreast
74.19   Signal devices on bicycle
74.20   Lights and reflector on bicycle; brakes
74.21   Riding bicycle on right side of roadway; obedience to traffic rules;
passing
74.22   Reckless operation; control, course and speed
74.23   Parking of bicycle
74.24   Riding on sidewalks
74.25   Impounding for violation; revocation
74.26   Operation of motorized bicycles
74.27   License and equipment requirements for operation of motorized bicycles
74.28   Electric bicycles
PEDESTRIANS
§ 74.01 RIGHT-OF-WAY IN CROSSWALK.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place, not in operation, or
are not clearly assigning the right-of-way, the driver of a vehicle shall yield
the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield, or if
required by R.C. § 4511.132 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is
upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the
pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as
to be in danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply under the conditions
stated in R.C. § 4511.48(B), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (F)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.46) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.02 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF BLIND PERSON.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section BLIND PERSON or BLIND PEDESTRIAN means a
person having not more than 20/200 visual acuity in the better eye with
correcting lenses, or visual acuity greater than 20/200, but with a limitation
in the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual field
subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees.
      (2)   The driver of every vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to every
blind pedestrian guided by a guide dog, or carrying a cane which is
predominantly white or metallic in color, with or without a red tip.
   (B)   No person, other than a blind person, while on any public highway,
street, alley, or other public thoroughfare, shall carry a white or metallic
cane, with or without a red tip.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.47) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.03 CROSSING ROADWAY OUTSIDE CROSSWALK; DIAGONAL CROSSINGS AT
INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all traffic upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic control devices; and, when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
   (E)   This section does not relieve the operator of a vehicle from
exercising due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway.
(R.C. § 4511.48) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.04 MOVING UPON RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALK.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(R.C. § 4511.49) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.05 WALKING ALONG HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use if practicable, no pedestrian
shall walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of the roadway, and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on
the left side of the roadway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in §§
71.07 and
74.01, any pedestrian upon a roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all
vehicles upon the roadway.
(R.C. § 4511.50) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.06 USE OF HIGHWAY FOR SOLICITING; RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while on a roadway outside a safety zone shall solicit a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting
employment, business or contributions from the occupant of any vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall hang onto, or ride on the outside of any motor vehicle
while it is moving upon a roadway, except mechanics or test engineers making
repairs or adjustments, or workers performing specialized highway or street
maintenance or construction under authority of a public agency.
   (D)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person to hang onto, or ride on
the outside of any motor vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway, except
mechanics or test engineers making repairs or adjustments, or workers
performing specialized highway or street maintenance or construction under
authority of a public agency.
   (E)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall knowingly permit
any person who has not attained the age of 16 years to ride in the unenclosed
or unroofed cargo storage area of his vehicle if the vehicle is traveling
faster than 25 miles per hour, unless either of the following applies:
      (1)   The cargo storage area of the vehicle is equipped with a properly
secured seat to which is attached a seat safety belt that is in compliance with
federal standards for an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. §
4513.263(A)(2), the seat and seat safety belt were installed at the time the
vehicle was originally assembled, and the person riding in the cargo storage
area is in the seat and is wearing the seat safety belt;
      (2)   An emergency exists that threatens the life of the driver or the
person being transported in the cargo storage area of the truck, trailer, or
semitrailer.
   (F)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall permit any person,
except for those workers performing specialized highway or street maintenance
or construction under authority of a public agency, to ride in the cargo
storage area or on a tailgate of his vehicle while the tailgate is unlatched.
(R.C. § 4511.51)
   (G)   No person shall leave or enter a vehicle which is in motion except in
an emergency necessitating such action.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.07 RIGHT-OF-WAY ON SIDEWALK.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of- way to any
pedestrian on a sidewalk.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.441) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.08 YIELDING TO PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of a public safety vehicle as stated in §
72.21, every pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the public safety
vehicle.
   (B)   This section shall not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle
from the duty to exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian.
(R.C. § 4511.452) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.09 WALKING ON HIGHWAY WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse, or
any combination thereof, to a degree which renders himself a hazard shall not
walk or be upon a highway.
(R.C. § 4511.481) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.10 ON BRIDGES OR RAILROAD CROSSINGS.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
(R.C. § 4511.511) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.11 ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Electric personal assistive mobility devices may be operated on
the public streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this Traffic Code that by their nature are applicable to an electric personal
assistive mobility device apply to the device and the person operating it
whenever it is operated upon any public street, highway, sidewalk, or path or
upon any portion of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   No operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians and human-powered
vehicles at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than five hundred feet;
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from one hundred feet to six hundred feet when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
      (4)   Operate the device on any portion of a street or highway that has
an established speed limit of fifty-five miles per hour or more;
      (5)   Operate the device upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
pedestrians or other specialized use when an appropriate sign giving notice of
the specialized use is posted on the path;
      (6)   If under eighteen years of age, operate the device unless wearing a
protective helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened;
      (7)   If under sixteen years of age, operate the device unless, during
the operation, the person is under the direct visual and audible supervision of
another person who is eighteen years of age or older and is responsible for the
immediate care of the person under sixteen years of age.
   (C)   No person who is under fourteen years of age shall operate an electric
personal assistive mobility device.
   (D)   No person shall distribute or sell an electric personal assistive
mobility device unless the device is accompanied by a written statement that is
substantially equivalent to the following: “WARNING: TO REDUCE THE RISK OF
SERIOUS INJURY, USE ONLY WHILE WEARING FULL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT - HELMET,
WRIST GUARDS, ELBOW PADS, AND KNEE PADS”.
(ORC 4511.512)
   (E)   “Electric personal assistive mobility device” means a self-balancing
two non-tandem wheeled device that is designed to transport only one person,
has an electric propulsion system of an average of seven hundred fifty watts,
and when ridden on a paved level surface by an operator who weighs one hundred
seventy pounds has a maximum speed of less than twenty miles per hour.
(ORC 4501.01)
   (F)   Whoever violates subsection (B) or (C) hereof is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   The offender shall be fined ten dollars ($10.00).
      (2)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of division (B) or (C) of Ohio R.C. 4511.512 or a substantially
similar municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to imposing the fine
required under subsection (F)(1) hereof, shall do one of the following:
         (a)   Order the impoundment for not less than one day but not more
than thirty days of the electric personal assistive mobility device that was
involved in the current violation of that section. The court shall order the
device to be impounded at a safe indoor location designated by the court and
may assess storage fees of not more than five dollars ($5.00) per day, provided
the total storage, processing, and release fees assessed against the offender
or the device in connection with the device’s impoundment or subsequent release
shall not exceed fifty dollars ($50.00).
         (b)   If the court does not issue an impoundment order pursuant to
subsection (F)(2)(a) hereof, issue an order prohibiting the offender from
operating any electric personal assistive mobility device on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles for not less than one day but not more than
thirty days.
   (G)   Whoever violates subsection (D) hereof is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4511.512)
§ 74.12 OPERATION OF PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE ON SIDEWALKS AND CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ELIGIBLE ENTITY. Means a corporation, partnership, association, firm,
sole proprietorship, or other entity engaged in business.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE. Means an electrically powered device to which
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The device is intended primarily to transport property and cargo
on sidewalks and crosswalks.
         (b)   The device weighs less than 200 pounds excluding any property
being carried in the device.
         (c)   The device has a maximum speed of ten miles per hour.
         (d)   The device is equipped with technology that enables the
operation of the device with active control or monitoring by a person, without
active control or monitoring by a person, or both with or without active
control or monitoring by a person.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE OPERATOR. Means an agent of an eligible entity
who exercises direct physical control over, or monitoring of, the navigation
and operation of a personal delivery device. The phrase does not include, with
respect to a delivery or other service rendered by a personal delivery device,
the person who requests the delivery or service. The phrase also does not
include a  person who only arranges for and dispatches a personal delivery
device for a delivery or other service.
   (B)   An eligible entity may operate a personal delivery device on sidewalks
and crosswalks so long as all of the following requirements are met:
      (1)   The personal delivery device is operated in accordance with all
regulations, if any, established by each local authority within which the
personal delivery device is operated.
      (2)   A personal delivery device operator is actively controlling or
monitoring the navigation and operation of the personal delivery device.
      (3)   The eligible entity maintains an insurance policy that includes
general liability coverage of not less than $100,000 for damages arising from
the operation of the personal delivery device by the eligible entity and any
agent of the eligible entity.
      (4)   The device is equipped with all of the following:
         (a)   A marker that clearly identifies the name and contact
information of the eligible entity operating the personal delivery device and a
unique identification number;
         (b)   A braking system that enables the personal delivery device to
come to a controlled stop;
         (c)   If the personal delivery device is being operated between sunset
and sunrise, a light on both the front and rear of the personal delivery device
that is visible in clear weather from a distance of at least 500 feet to the
front and rear of the personal delivery device when directly in front of low
beams of headlights on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   No personal delivery device operator shall allow a personal delivery
device to do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with traffic or pedestrian control devices and
signals;
      (2)   Unreasonably interfere with pedestrians or traffic;
      (3)   Transport any hazardous material that would require a permit issued
by the Public Utilities Commission;
      (4)   Operate on a street or highway, except when crossing the street or
highway within a crosswalk.
   (D)   A personal delivery device has all of the rights and obligations
applicable to a pedestrian under the same circumstances, except that a personal
delivery device shall yield the right-of-way to human pedestrians on sidewalks
and crosswalks.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall operate a personal delivery device unless the
person is authorized to do so under this section and complies with the
requirements of this section.
      (2)   An eligible entity is responsible for both of the following:
         (a)   Any violation of this section that is committed by a personal
delivery device operator; and
         (b)   Any other circumstance, including a technological malfunction,
in which a personal delivery device operates in a manner prohibited by
divisions (C)(1) to (C)(4) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.513) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.13 LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   A low-speed micromobility device may be operated on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared- use paths, and may be operated on any
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance
with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this title that by their nature could apply to a low- speed micromobility
device do apply to the device and the person operating it whenever it is
operated upon any public street, highway, sidewalk, or shared-use path, or upon
any portion of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   No operator of a low-speed micromobility device shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of- way to all pedestrians at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   No person who is under 16 years of age shall rent a low-speed
micromobility device.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device to
a person who is under 16 years of age.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device on
behalf of a person who is under 16 years of age.
   (D)   No person shall operate a low- speed micromobility device at a speed
greater than 20 miles per hour.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Unless a mens rea is otherwise specified in this section, an
offense established under this section is a strict liability offense and R.C. §
2901.20 does not apply. The designation of that offense as a strict liability
offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for which there
is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
   (F)   Notwithstanding division (A)(1) of this section, the municipality,
county, township, metropolitan park district, township park district,
recreation district, or any division of the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources if the division has the approval of the Ohio Director of Natural
Resources may do any of the following:
      (1)   Regulate or prohibit the operation of low-speed micromobility
devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared- use paths, and
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, under its
jurisdiction;
      (2)   Include low-speed micromobility devices that are adapted to expand
access for people with various physical limitations into a shared bicycle,
shared electric bicycle, or similar vehicle sharing program, under its
jurisdiction;
      (3)   Require the owner or operator of a low-speed micromobility device
rental service or low-speed micromobility device sharing program to maintain
commercial general liability insurance related to the operation of the devices,
with limits of up to $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 per aggregate.
(R.C. § 4511.514) Penalty, see §
70.99
BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
§ 74.15 CODE APPLICATION TO BICYCLES.
   (A)   The provisions of this Traffic Code that are applicable to bicycles
and electric bicycles apply whenever a bicycle or electric bicycle is operated
upon any street or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   Except as provided in subsection (D) of this section, a bicycle
operator or electric bicycle operator who violates any section of this Traffic
Code described in subsection (A) of this section that is applicable to bicycles
or electric bicycles may be issued a ticket, citation or summons by a law
enforcement officer for the violation in the same manner as the operator of a
motor vehicle would be cited for the same violation. A person who commits any
such violation while operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not have any
points assessed against the person’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or probationary license under Ohio R.C.
4510.036.
   (C)   Except as provided in subsection (D) of this section, in the case of a
violation of any section of this Traffic Code described in subsection (A) of
this section by a bicycle operator, electric bicycle operator, or motor vehicle
operator when the trier of fact finds that the violation by the motor vehicle
operator endangered the lives of bicycle riders or electric bicycle riders at
the time of the violation, the court, notwithstanding any provision of this
Traffic Code to the contrary, may require the bicycle operator, electric
bicycle operator, or motor vehicle operator to take and successfully complete a
bicycling skills course approved by the court in addition to or in lieu of any
penalty otherwise prescribed by the Traffic Code for that violation.
   (D)   Subsections (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to violations of
Section
72.45 of this Traffic Code.
(R.C. § 4511.52)
   (E)   The provisions of this Traffic Code shall apply to bicycles except
those which by their nature are not applicable.
§ 74.16 RIDING UPON SEATS; HANDLE BARS; HELMETS AND GLASSES.
   (A)   As used in this section, SNOWMOBILE has the same meaning as given that
term in R.C. § 4519.01.
   (B)   (1)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall ride
other than upon or astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto or
carry any other person upon such bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon a
firmly attached and regular seat thereon, and no person shall ride upon a
bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon such a firmly attached and regular
seat.
      (2)   No person operating a motorcycle shall ride other than upon or
astride the permanent and regular seat or saddle attached thereto, or carry any
other person upon such motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular
seat or saddle thereon, and no person shall ride upon a motorcycle other than
upon such a firmly attached and regular seat or saddle.
      (3)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a
saddle other than while sitting astride the saddle, facing forward, with one
leg on each side of the motorcycle.
      (4)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a seat
other than while sitting upon the seat.
      (5)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle, or article that prevents the driver from keeping at least one
hand upon the handlebars.
      (6)   No bicycle, electric bicycle, or motorcycle shall be used to carry
more persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
No motorcycle shall be operated on a highway when the handlebars rise higher
than the shoulders of the operator when the operator is seated in the
operator’s seat or saddle.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no person
shall operate or be a passenger on a snowmobile or motorcycle without using
safety glasses or other protective eye device. Except as provided in division
(C)(3) of this section, no person who is under the age of 18 years, or who
holds a motorcycle operator’s endorsement or license bearing a “novice”
designation that is currently in effect as provided in R.C. § 4507.13, shall
operate a motorcycle on a highway, or be a passenger on a motorcycle, unless
wearing a protective helmet on the person’s head, and no other person shall be
a passenger on a motorcycle operated by such a person unless similarly wearing
a protective helmet. The helmet, safety glasses, or other protective eye device
shall conform with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety. The
provisions of this paragraph or a violation thereof shall not be used in the
trial of any civil action.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no
person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary instruction permit and
temporary instruction permit identification card issued by the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 unless the person, at the time of
such operation, is wearing on the person’s head a protective helmet that
conforms with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
         (b)   No person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary
instruction permit and temporary instruction permit identification card issued
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 in any of the
following circumstances:
            1.   At any time when lighted lights are required by R.C. § 4513.03
(A)(1);
            2.   While carrying a passenger;
            3.   On any limited access highway or heavily congested roadway.
      (3)   Divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2)(a) of this section do not apply to a
person who operates or is a passenger in an autocycle or cab-enclosed
motorcycle when the occupant compartment top is in place enclosing the
occupants.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the carrying
of a child in a seat or trailer that is designed for carrying children and is
firmly attached to the bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or
(C)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.53)
§ 74.17 ATTACHING BICYCLE OR SLED TO VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   No person riding upon any bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster,
roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or self
to any vehicle upon a roadway.
      (2)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person riding upon any
bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy
vehicle to attach the same or self to any vehicle while it is moving upon a
roadway.
      (3)   This section does not apply to towing a disabled vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.54) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.18 RIDING BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES ABREAST.
   (A)   Persons riding bicycles, electric bicycles, or motorcycles upon a
roadway shall ride not more than two abreast in a single lane, except on paths
or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, electric
bicycles, or motorcycles.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.55(B), (D)) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.19 SIGNAL DEVICES ON BICYCLE.
   A bicycle or electric bicycle may be equipped with a device capable of
giving an audible signal, except that a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not
be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle or electric bicycle
any siren or whistle.
(R.C. § 4511.56)
§ 74.20 LIGHTS AND REFLECTOR ON BICYCLE; BRAKES.
   (A)   Every bicycle or electric bicycle when in use at the times specified
in Section
72.21, shall be equipped with the following:
      (1)   A lamp mounted on the front of either the bicycle or the operator
that shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least five hundred
feet to the front; and three hundred feet to the sides. A generator-powered
lamp that emits light only when the bicycle or electric bicycle is moving may
be used to meet this requirement.
      (2)   A red reflector on the rear that shall be visible from all
distances from one hundred feet to six hundred feet to the rear when directly
in front of lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
      (3)   A lamp emitting either flashing or steady red light visible from a
distance of five hundred feet to the rear shall be used in addition to the red
reflector;
         If the red lamp performs as a reflector in that it is visible as
specified in subsection (A)(2) of this section, the red lamp may serve as the
reflector and a separate reflector is not required.
   (B)   Additional lamps and reflectors may be used in addition to those
required under subsection (A) of this section, except that red lamps and red
reflectors shall not be used on the front of the bicycle and white lamps and
white reflectors shall not be used on the rear of the bicycle or electric
bicycle.
   (C)   Every bicycle or electric bicycle shall be equipped with an adequate
brake when used on a street or highway.
(ORC 4511.56)
§ 74.21 RIDING BICYCLE ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC RULES;
PASSING.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle upon a roadway
shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable obeying all
traffic rules applicable to vehicles and exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   This section does not require a person operating a bicycle or electric
bicycle to ride at the edge of the roadway when it is unreasonable or unsafe to
do so. Conditions that may require riding away from the edge of the roadway
include when necessary to avoid fixed or moving objects, parked or moving
vehicles, surface hazards, or if it otherwise is unsafe or impracticable to do
so, including if the lane is too narrow for the bicycle and an overtaking
vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.55(A), (D))
§ 74.22 RECKLESS OPERATION; CONTROL, COURSE AND SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle:
   (A)   Without due regard for the safety and rights of pedestrians and
drivers and occupants of all other vehicles, and so as to endanger the life,
limb or property of any person while in the lawful use of the streets or
sidewalks or any other public or private property;
   (B)   Without exercising reasonable and ordinary control over such bicycle;
   (C)   In a weaving or zigzag course unless the irregular course is necessary
for safe operation in compliance with law;
   (D)   Without both hands upon the handle grips except when necessary to give
the required hand and arm signals or as provided in §
74.16 (D);
   (E)   At a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions
then existing.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.23 PARKING OF BICYCLE.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a sidewalk in a manner so as to unduly
interfere with pedestrian traffic or upon a roadway so as to unduly interfere
with vehicular traffic.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.24 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall operate a bicycle upon a sidewalk where signs are erected
prohibiting the operation.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.25 IMPOUNDING FOR VIOLATION; REVOCATION.
   Any police officer shall have the authority to remove the license from any
bicycle and impound the same, together with the license, for a period of not
more than 5 days if the bicycle is being operated in an unsafe manner or
contrary to the regulations of this title. Repetitions of successive violations
shall be sufficient cause for complete revocation of the license. Removal of
the license and impounding of bicycles may be in addition to other penalties
provided for by this title.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.26 OPERATION OF MOTORIZED BICYCLES.
   In addition to those requirements set forth in §
74.27 hereof, no person shall operate a motorized bicycle, commonly known as a
MOPED as such term is defined in R.C. § 4511.01 (H), on lands, paved walks, or
paths on any property owned or controlled by the city, except within those
areas specifically designated for motorized vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 2033, passed 7-26-77; amend. Ord. 2262, passed 6-9-81) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Moped regulations, see
Ch. 76
§ 74.27 LICENSE AND EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR OPERATION OF MOTORIZED BICYCLES.
   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle, commonly known as a MOPED as
such term is defined in R.C. § 4511.01 (H) on a highway of any public or
private property used by the public for purpose of vehicular traffic or parking
unless both of the following conditions are met:
   (A)   The person is 14 years of age or older and holds either a valid
operator's license issued under R.C. Ch. 4507 or a valid motorized bicycle
license issued after the person has passed a test provided for in R.C. §
4511.521;
   (B)   The motorized bicycle is equipped in accordance with the rules adopted
under R.C. § 4511.521 (B) and is in proper working order.
(Ord. 2266, passed 6-9-81) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.28 ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   On and after January 1, 2020, manufacturers and distributors of
electric bicycles shall permanently affix a label, in a prominent location, to
each electric bicycle. The label shall specify whether the electric bicycle is
a class 1, class 2, or class 3 electric bicycle, the top assisted speed that
the electric bicycle is capable of reaching, and the motor wattage of the
electric bicycle.
      (2)   No person shall modify an electric bicycle in a manner that changes
the top assisted speed that the electric bicycle is capable of reaching unless
the person also modifies the label required under division (A)(1) of this
section to reflect the modification.
   (B)   (1)   The manufacturer of an electric bicycle shall ensure that the
electric bicycle complies with the equipment and manufacturing requirements for
bicycles established by the consumer product safety commission under 16 C.F.R.
§§ 1512 et seq.
      (2)   The manufacturer shall manufacture all class 1 electric bicycles
and class 3 electric bicycles so that when the rider ceases pedaling the
electric motor ceases to provide assistance. The manufacturer shall manufacture
all class 2 electric bicycles so that when the rider applies the brakes or
releases or activates a switch or similar mechanism the electric motor ceases
to provide assistance.
      (3)   All class 3 electric bicycles shall be equipped with a speedometer
that displays the speed of the electric bicycle in miles per hour.
   (C)   (1)   The operation of a class 1 electric bicycle and a class 2
electric bicycle is permitted on a path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles or on a shared-use path, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule prohibits the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle or class 2 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (2)   No person shall operate a class 3 electric bicycle on a path set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles or a shared-use path unless that path
is within or adjacent to a highway or the county, township, municipal
corporation, or local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60 with
control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use of a
class 3 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (3)   No person shall operate a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2
electric bicycle, or a class 3 electric bicycle on a path that is intended to
be used primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar
uses, or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically
been reserved for non-motorized use, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2 electric bicycle, or a class 3
electric bicycle on such a path.
      (4)   Divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) of this section do not apply to a law
enforcement officer, or other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic
laws of the state, using an electric bicycle while in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
   (D)   (1)   No person under 16 years of age shall operate a class 3 electric
bicycle; however, a person under 16 years of age may ride as a passenger on a
class 3 electric bicycle that is designed to accommodate passengers.
      (2)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on a class 3 electric
bicycle unless the person is wearing a protective helmet that meets the
standards established by the Consumer Product Safety Commission or the American
Society for Testing and Materials.
   (E)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever operates
an electric bicycle in a manner that is prohibited under division (C) of this
section and whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under division (E)(1) of this section are
strict liability offenses and strict liability is a culpable mental state for
purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of these offenses as strict
liability offenses shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4511.522)
CHAPTER 75: RAILROADS
Section
75.01   Obstructing streets by railroad agents; exceptions
75.02   Climbing upon railroad cars
75.03   Approaching crossings, etc.
75.04   Construction and maintenance requirements
75.05   Notifications
75.99   Penalty
§ 75.01 OBSTRUCTING STREETS BY RAILROAD AGENTS, EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person having charge of or operating any railroad engine or
locomotive, railroad car, train or other property or equipment in the city
shall obstruct unnecessarily any street by permitting the property or devices
to remain upon or across any street for longer than 5 minutes, or permit other
obstructions to remain upon or across any street to the hindrance or
inconvenience of users of the street.
   (B)   No person having the supervision or control of any railroad train,
car, engine or locomotive, or any other person assisting the person, shall
cause or allow to be made with the train, car, engine, or locomotive, across
any of the street in the city any switch or connection, commonly called a
“running switch”.
   (C)   No person having the supervision or control of any railroad train,
car, locomotive or other rolling stock and equipment shall permit the property
to stand or remain either on the streets or on the right-of-way or property of
the railway for a period longer than 5 minutes in duration, so as to prevent or
hamper a full view of the tracks for at least 500 feet in both directions from
the intersection of the public street and the railroad crossing, by any person
in lawful use of the public streets, unless an electric signaling device is in
operation at the time to warn of approaching trains or other rolling stock, or
unless a watchman is on duty at the time.
   (D)   However, this section shall not be construed to prohibit or interfere
with the operation of the railroad equipment when continuous and proceeding
uninterrupted in one direction, at a lawful rate of speed, and composed of not
more than one standard unit traveling on the same track.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
('70 Code § 521.01)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.02 CLIMBING UPON RAILROAD CARS.
   (A)   No person shall climb, jump, step or stand upon or cling or attach
himself to a locomotive, engine or car upon the track of a railroad, unless in
compliance with law or by permission under the rules and regulations of the
corporation managing the railroad. (R.C. § 4999.02)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
('70 Code, § 521.02)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.03 APPROACHING CROSSINGS, ETC.
   (A)   No person in charge of a locomotive shall do the following:
      (1)   Fail to bring the locomotive to a full stop at least 200 feet
before arriving at a crossing with another track, or proceed through the
crossing before signaling to do so or before the way is clear.
      (2)   When approaching a grade crossing fail to sound the locomotive
whistle at frequent intervals, beginning not less than 1500 feet from the
crossing and continuing until the locomotive has passed the crossing.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If violation of this section causes physical harm to any person,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
('70 Code, § 521.03) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.04 CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The owner or operator of every railroad track or railroad spur which
intersects, at grade, a public street in the city, shall be and hereby is
required to install and maintain a good smooth and level crossing at the
intersections. The crossing shall be paved with wood ties and/or steel rails,
in combination with asphalt or concrete; or with reinforced concrete slabs or
rubber slabs or other suitable and durable materials approved by the service
director of the city. The crossing shall be constructed so that its width
extends at least 2 feet outside the curb lines of both sides of the intersected
street, and so that its length extends the full width of the railroad right-of-
way. When more than one track intersects a street and the nearest rails of the
tracks are less than 15 feet apart, the paving or material herein required
shall extend between the tracks as well as between the rails and 2 feet outside
the outermost rails. The crossing shall be constructed and maintained so as to
facilitate safe and speedy vehicular traffic over the crossing at all times.
   (B)   The owner or operator shall also install, maintain and provide safe
sidewalks of asphalt or concrete to be laid outside the curb lines of the
intersected street for the full width of the railroad right-of-way. The
sidewalks shall be of the same width as, and shall align with, any existing or
proposed sidewalks intersected by the railroad track right-of-way. The service
director may, however, at his option, waive the above described sidewalk
requirements at those crossings which are infrequently used by pedestrians,
until such time that the service director determines the sidewalks are
necessary. (Ord. 1664, passed 5-11-70) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.05 NOTIFICATION.
   The service director shall serve a written notice upon the nearest station
agent or section foreman having charge of that portion of the railroad where
the intersection occurs at the crossing or sidewalk, described in §
75.04, stating that the crossing must be constructed, rebuilt or repaired. The
notice shall fully describe the work to be done and the time and manner of
constructing it and shall state the consequences of failure to comply with the
notice. Upon receipt of the notice, the owner or operator shall commence
construction, repair or rebuilding of the specified crossing within 30 days and
shall prosecute it in good faith until completion. Upon failure or refusal of
any owner or operator or his officer or agent to comply with the notice, the
city shall cause summons to be issued in accordance with law. (Ord. 1664,
passed 5-11-70) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.99 PENALTY.
   Any owner, operator, station agent or section foreman failing to comply with
§§
75.04 and 75.05 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not
less than $1 nor more than $50. Each day's violation shall constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 1664, passed 5-11-70)
CHAPTER 76: MOPED REGULATIONS
Section
76.01   Code application and definition
76.02   Riding upon seats; handlebars; helmets and glasses
76.03   Attaching a moped to another motor vehicle
76.04   Riding mopeds on right side of roadway and abreast
76.05   Lights, signals, devices, brakes on mopeds
76.06   Safe riding regulations for mopeds
76.07   Parking of moped
76.08   Impounding of moped
76.09   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   License and equipment requirements for motorized bicycles, see §
74.27
   Operation of motorized bicycles, see §
74.26
§ 76.01 CODE APPLICATION AND DEFINITION.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code which are applicable to mopeds
apply whenever a moped is operated upon any street, or any public or private
property used by the public for pedestrian or recreational purposes, or upon
any path set aside for the exclusive use of mopeds.
   (B)   Every person riding a moped upon a roadway shall be granted all the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle under the provisions of this traffic code, except as to special
regulations in this chapter and except as to those provisions of this traffic
code which by their nature can have no application.
   (C)   MOPED means any vehicle having either two tandem wheels or one wheel
in front and two wheels in the rear, that is capable of being peddled and is
equipped with a helper motor and that otherwise complies with R.C. § 4511.01(H)
(Ord. 2407, passed 8-9-83)
§ 76.02 RIDING UPON SEATS; HANDLEBARS; HELMETS AND GLASSES.
   (A)   A person operating a moped shall not ride other than upon the
permanent and regular seat attached thereto, nor carry any other person upon
the moped; nor shall any person ride upon a moped other than upon such firmly
attached regular seat.
   (B)   A person shall ride upon a moped only while sitting astride the seat,
facing forward, with one leg on each side of the moped.
   (C)   No moped shall be used to carry more than one person, nor shall any
moped be operated on a highway when the handlebars or grips are more than 15
inches higher than the seat or saddle for the operator.
   (D)   No person shall operate a moped without using safety glasses or other
protective eye device. No person who is under the age of 18 years, or who holds
a motorized bicycle license as provided in R.C. § 4511.521, shall operate a
moped on a highway unless wearing a protective helmet on his head. The helmet,
safety glasses or other protective eye device shall conform with regulations
prescribed and promulgated by the Department of Highway Safety. The provisions
of this division or a violation thereof, shall not be used in the trial of any
civil action.
(Ord. 2407, passed 8-9-83) Penalty, see §
76.09
§ 76.03 ATTACHING A MOPED TO ANOTHER MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person riding upon any moped shall attach it or himself to any
vehicle upon a roadway.
   (B)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person riding upon any moped to
attach it or himself to any vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway. This
section does not apply to the towing of a disabled vehicle.
(Ord. 2407, passed 8-9-83) Penalty, see §
76.09
§ 76.04 RIDING MOPEDS ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY AND ABREAST.
   (A)   Every person operating a moped upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable, obeying all traffic rules
applicable to vehicles and exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle
or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding mopeds shall ride not more than two abreast in a single
lane, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
mopeds.
(Ord. 2407, passed 8-9-83) Penalty, see §
76.09
§ 76.05 LIGHTS, SIGNALS, DEVICES, BRAKES ON MOPEDS.
   (A)   Every moped, when in use during the times when lights are necessary
shall be equipped with a lamp on the front that shall emit a white light
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the front; and with a red
reflector on the rear of a type approved by the Director of Public Safety that
shall be visible from all distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when
directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle, and a
lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear shall
be used in addition to the red reflector.
   (B)   Every moped shall be equipped with an adequate brake when used on a
street or highway.
(Ord. 2407, passed 8-9-83) Penalty, see §
76.09
§ 76.06 SAFE RIDING REGULATIONS FOR MOPEDS.
   (A)   No person operating a moped shall remove both feet from the pedals or
practice or perform any acrobatic riding on any of the streets or public places
in the city.
   (B)   The operator of a moped emerging from an alley, driveway, or building,
shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or sidewalk area, and upon entering the
roadway yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
   (C)   No person shall operate a moped on a sidewalk or any public or private
property used by the public for pedestrian or recreational purposes.
   (D)   No person shall operate a moped:
      (1)   Without due regard for the safety and rights of pedestrians and
drivers and occupants of all other vehicles, and so as to endanger the life,
limb, or property of any person while in the lawful use of the streets,
sidewalks, or any other public or private property.
      (2)   Without exercising reasonable and ordinary control over the moped.
      (3)   In a weaving or zigzag course, unless the irregular course is
necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law.
      (4)   Without both hands upon the handle grips except when necessary to
give the required hand and arm signals.
      (5)   At a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the
conditions then existing.
(Ord. 2407, passed 8-9-83) Penalty, see §
76.09
§ 76.07 PARKING OF MOPED.
   No person shall park a moped upon a street or sidewalk in such a manner so
as to obstruct pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 2407, passed 8-9-83)
§ 76.08 IMPOUNDING OF MOPED.
   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to seize and impound
any moped which is parked in violation of §
76.07. Any moped so seized and impounded shall be held by the Department until
the owner thereof, or, if the owner is a minor, the owner and such owner's
parent or guardian, shall appear at the Department and give assurance that the
violation shall not be repeated.
(Ord. 2407, passed 8-9-83)
§ 76.09 PENALTY.
   See §
70.99 for misdemeanor classifications and penalties. (Ord. 2407, passed 8-9-83)
CHAPTER 77: MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSE TAX
Section
77.01   Purpose
77.02   Rate
77.03   Term
77.04   Payment procedure
§ 77.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   There is hereby levied an annual license tax upon the operation of
motor vehicles on the public roads and highways of the City of West Carrollton,
Ohio, pursuant to R.C. § 4504.173, for the purposes of planning, constructing,
improving, maintaining, and repairing public roads, highways, and streets, and
to provide additional revenue for the purposes authorized by R.C. § 4504.173(A)
(2), and to supplement revenues already available for such purposes.
   (B)   All revenues derived from the annual tax levied herein shall be used
by the City of West Carrollton for the purposes specified in this chapter, or
any other purpose authorized by state law.
(Ord. 2659, passed 5-24-88; Am. Ord. 3716, passed 11-23-21)
§ 77.02 RATE.
   The license tax referenced above in §
77.01 shall be at the rate of $5 per motor vehicle per year, on each and every
motor vehicle the district of registration of which, as defined in R.C. §
4503.10, is in the City of West Carrollton, Ohio, subject to reductions in the
manner provided in R.C. § 4503.11 and subject to exemptions provided in R.C. §§
4503.16, 4503.17, 4503.172, 4503.173, 4503.18, 4503.41, 4503.43, 4503.46, and
4503.571.
(Ord. 2659, passed 5-24-88; Am. Ord. 3716, passed 11-23-21)
§ 77.03 TERM.
   The annual tax imposed by this chapter shall apply to and be in effect for
the registration year commencing January 1, 2022, and shall continue in effect
and application during each registration year thereafter.
(Ord. 2659, passed 5-24-88; Am. Ord. 3716, passed 11-23-21)
§ 77.04 PAYMENT PROCEDURE.
   The annual tax imposed by this chapter shall be paid to the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles of the State of Ohio, or to a Deputy Registrar, at the time
application for registration of a motor vehicle is made as provided in R.C. §
4503.01.
(Ord. 2659, passed 5-24-88; Am. Ord. 3716, passed 11-23-21)
CHAPTER 79: COMMERCIAL DRIVERS
Section
79.01   Definitions
79.02   Prerequisites to operation of a commercial motor vehicle
79.03   Prohibitions
79.04   Criminal offenses
79.05   Employment of drivers of commercial vehicles
§ 79.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   ALCOHOL CONCENTRATION. The concentration of alcohol in a person’s blood,
breath or urine. When expressed as a percentage, it means grams of alcohol per
the following: 100 milliliters of whole blood, blood serum, or blood plasma;
210 liters of breath; or 100 milliliters of urine.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE.
      (1)   A license issued in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4506 that
authorizes an individual to drive a commercial motor vehicle. Except as
otherwise specifically provided, “commercial driver’s license” includes an
“enhanced commercial driver’s license.”
      (2)   “Enhanced commercial driver’s license” means a commercial driver’s
license issued in accordance with R.C. §§ 4507.021 and 4506.072 that denotes
citizenship and identity and is approved by the United States Secretary of
Homeland Security or other designated federal agency for purposes of entering
the United States.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE INFORMATION SYSTEM. The information system
established pursuant to the requirements of the “Commercial Motor Vehicle
Safety Act of 1986", 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App. 2701.
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Except when used in R.C. § 4506.25, any motor
vehicle designed or used to transport persons or property that meets any of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Any combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight or combined
gross vehicle weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more, provided that the gross
vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight rating of the vehicle or vehicles being
towed is in excess of 10,000 pounds;
      (2)   Any single vehicle with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle
weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more;
      (3)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is not a Class A
or Class B vehicle, but is designed to transport 16 or more passengers
including the driver;
      (4)   Any school bus with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight
rating of less than 26,001 pounds that is designed to transport fewer than 16
passengers including the driver;
      (5)   Is transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is
required under 49 C.F.R. part 172, subpart F, as amended; or
      (6)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is designed to
be operated and to travel on a public street or highway and is considered by
the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration to be a commercial motor
vehicle, including but not limited to a motorized crane, a vehicle whose
function is to pump cement, a rig for drilling wells, and a portable crane.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Includes all of the following:
      (1)   Any substance classified as a controlled substance under the
“Controlled Substances Act”, 80 Stat. 1242 (1970), 21 U.S.C. § 802(6), as
amended;
      (2)   Any substance included in Schedules I through V of 21 C.F.R. part
1308, as amended;
      (3)   Any drug of abuse.
   CONVICTION. An unvacated adjudication of guilt or a determination that a
person has violated or failed to comply with the law in a court of original
jurisdiction or an authorized administrative tribunal, an unvacated forfeiture
of bail or collateral deposited to secure the person’s appearance in court, a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere accepted by the court, the payment of a fine
or court cost, or violation of a condition of release without bail, regardless
of whether or not the penalty is rebated, suspended or probated.
   DISQUALIFICATION. Means any of the following:
      (1)   The suspension, revocation, or cancellation of a person’s
privileges to operate a commercial motor vehicle;
      (2)   Any withdrawal of a person’s privileges to operate a commercial
motor vehicle as the result of a violation of state or local law relating to
motor vehicle traffic control other than parking, vehicle weight, or vehicle
defect violations;
      (3)   A determination by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
that a person is not qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle under 49
C.F.R. § 391.
   DOMICILED. Having a true, fixed, principal, and permanent residence to which
an individual intends to return.
   DOWNGRADE. Any of the following, as applicable:
      (1)   A change in the commercial driver’s license, or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit, holder’s self-certified status as
described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1);
      (2)   A change to a lesser class of vehicle;
      (3)   Removal of commercial driver’s license privileges from the
individual’s driver’s license.
   DRIVE. To drive, operate or be in physical control of a motor vehicle.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives, operates or is in physical control of a
commercial motor vehicle or is required to have a commercial driver’s license.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A license issued by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles that
authorizes an individual to drive.
   DRUG OF ABUSE. Any controlled substance, dangerous drug as defined in R.C. §
4729.01, harmful intoxicant as defined in R.C. § 2925.01, or over-the-counter
medication that, when taken in quantities exceeding the recommended dosage, can
result in impairment of judgment or reflexes.
   ELECTRONIC DEVICE. Includes a cellular telephone, a personal digital
assistant, a pager, a computer, and any other device used to input, write,
send, receive, or read text.
   ELIGIBLE UNIT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. A village, township, or county that has a
population of not more than 3,000 persons according to the most recent federal
census.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, including the federal government, any state, and a
political subdivision of any state, that owns or leases a commercial motor
vehicle or assigns a person to drive such a motor vehicle.
   ENDORSEMENT. An authorization on a person’s commercial driver’s license that
is required to permit the person to operate a specified type of commercial
motor vehicle.
   FARM TRUCK. A truck controlled and operated by a farmer for use in the
transportation to or from a farm, for a distance of not more than 150 miles, of
products of the farm, including livestock and its products, poultry and its
products, floricultural and horticultural products, and in the transportation
to the farm, from a distance of not more than 150 miles, of supplies for the
farm, including tile, fence and every other thing or commodity used in
agricultural, floricultural, horticultural, livestock, and poultry production,
and livestock, poultry, and other animals and things used for breeding,
feeding, or other purposes connected with the operation of the farm, when the
truck is operated in accordance with this definition and is not used in the
operations of a motor carrier, as defined in R.C. § 4923.01.
   FATALITY. The death of a person as the result of a motor vehicle accident
occurring not more than 365 days prior to the date of death.
   FELONY. Any offense under federal or state law that is punishable by death
or imprisonment for a term exceeding one year and includes any offense
specifically classified as a felony under the law of this state, regardless of
the penalty that may be imposed.
   FOREIGN JURISDICTION. Any jurisdiction other than a state.
   GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING. The value specified by the manufacturer as the
maximum loaded weight of a single or a combination vehicle. The gross vehicle
weight rating of a combination vehicle is the gross vehicle weight rating of
the power unit plus the gross vehicle weight rating of each towed unit.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material that has been designated as hazardous
under 49 U.S.C. § 5103 and is required to be placarded under 49 C.F.R. part
172, subpart F or any quantity of a material listed as a select agent or toxin
in 42 C.F.R. part 73, as amended.
   IMMINENT HAZARD. The existence of a condition that presents a substantial
likelihood that death, serious illness, severe personal injury, or a
substantial endangerment to health, property, or the environment may occur
before the reasonably foreseeable completion date of a formal proceeding begun
to lessen the risk of death, illness, injury, or endangerment.
   MEDICAL VARIANCE. One of the following received by a driver from the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration that allows the driver to be issued a
medical certificate:
      (1)   An exemption letter permitting operation of a commercial motor
vehicle under 49 C.F.R. part 381, subpart C or 49 C.F.R. § 391.64;
      (2)   A skill performance evaluation certificate permitting operation of
a commercial motor vehicle pursuant to 49 C.F.R. § 391.49.
   MOBILE TELEPHONE. A mobile communication device that falls under or uses any
commercial mobile radio service as defined in 47 C.F.R. part 20, except that
mobile telephone does not include two-way or citizens band radio services.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or semitrailer
propelled or drawn by mechanical power used on highways, except that such term
does not include a vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or semitrailer operated
exclusively on a rail.
   OUT-OF-SERVICE ORDER. A declaration by an authorized enforcement officer of
a federal, state, local, Canadian, or Mexican jurisdiction declaring that the
driver, commercial motor vehicle, or commercial motor carrier operation is out
of service as defined in 49 C.F.R. § 390.5.
   PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
   PORTABLE TANK. A liquid or gaseous packaging designed primarily to be loaded
onto or temporarily attached to a vehicle and equipped with skids, mountings,
or accessories to facilitate handling of the tank by mechanical means.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01(E)(1) and
(E)(3).
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Includes every vehicle that is defined as a
recreational vehicle in R.C. § 4501.01 and is used exclusively for purposes
other than engaging in business for profit.
   RESIDENCE. Any person’s residence determined in accordance with standards
prescribed in the rules adopted by the Registrar.
   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SERIOUS TRAFFIC VIOLATION. Any of the following:
      (1)   A conviction arising from a single charge of operating a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of any provision of R.C. § 4506.03;
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (2)(b) of this definition, a
violation while operating a commercial motor vehicle of a law of this state, or
any municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or any other
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, prohibiting either of the following:
            1.   Texting while driving;
            2.   Using a handheld mobile telephone.
         (b)   It is not a serious traffic violation if the person was texting
or using a handheld mobile telephone to contact law enforcement or other
emergency services.
      (3)   A conviction arising from the operation of any motor vehicle that
involves any of the following:
         (a)   A single charge of any speed in excess of the posted speed limit
by 15 miles per hour or more;
         (b)   Violations of R.C. § 4511.20 or R.C. § 4511.201 or any
substantially equivalent ordinance or resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state;
         (c)   Violation of a law of this state or an ordinance or resolution
relating to traffic control, other than a parking violation, or of any
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, that results in a fatal accident;
         (d)   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license with the proper class or endorsement for the specific vehicle
group being operated or for the passengers or type of cargo being transported;
         (e)   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license being in the person’s possession;
         (f)   Violation of R.C. § 4511.33 or R.C. § 4511.34, or any municipal
ordinance or county or township resolution substantially equivalent to either
of those sections, or any substantially equivalent law of another state or
political subdivision of another state;
         (g)   Violation of any other law of this state, any law of another
state, or any ordinance or resolution of a political subdivision of this state
or another state that meets both of the following requirements:
            1.   It relates to traffic control, other than a parking violation;
            2.   It is determined to be a serious traffic violation by the
United States Secretary of Transportation and is designated by the director as
such by rule.
   STATE. A state of the United States and includes the District of Columbia.
   TANK VEHICLE. Any commercial motor vehicle that is designed to transport any
liquid or gaseous materials within a tank or tanks that are either permanently
or temporarily attached to the vehicle or its chassis and have an individual
rated capacity of more than 119 gallons and an aggregate rated capacity of
1,000 gallons or more. The term does not include a commercial motor vehicle
transporting an empty storage container tank that is not designed for
transportation, has a rated capacity of 1,000 gallons or more, and is
temporarily attached to a flatbed trailer.
   TESTER. Means a person or entity acting pursuant to a valid agreement
entered into pursuant to R.C. § 4506.09(B).
   TEXTING. Manually entering alphanumeric text into, or reading text from, an
electronic device. Texting includes short message service (SMS), e-mail,
instant messaging, a command or request to access a world wide web page,
pressing more than a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone, or engaging in any other form of
electronic text retrieval or entry, for present or future communication.
Texting does not include the following:
      (1)   Using voice commands to initiate, receive, or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone;
      (2)   Inputting, selecting, or reading information on a global
positioning system or navigation system;
      (3)   Pressing a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone; or
      (4)   Using, for a purpose that is not otherwise prohibited by law, a
device capable of performing multiple functions, such as a fleet management
system, a dispatching device, a mobile telephone, a citizens band radio, or a
music player.
   TEXTING WHILE DRIVING. Texting while operating a commercial motor vehicle,
with the motor running, including while temporarily stationary because of
traffic, a traffic control device, or other momentary delays. Texting while
driving does not include operating a commercial motor vehicle with or without
the motor running when the driver has moved the vehicle to the side of, or off,
a highway and is stopped in a location where the vehicle can safely remain
stationary.
   UNITED STATES. The 50 states and the District of Columbia.
   UPGRADE. A change in the class of vehicles, endorsements, or self-certified
status as described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1) that expands the ability of a
current commercial driver’s license holder to operate commercial motor vehicles
under this chapter or R.C. Chapter 4506.
   USE OF A HANDHELD MOBILE TELEPHONE. Means:
      (1)   Using at least one hand to hold a mobile telephone to conduct a
voice communication;
      (2)   Dialing or answering a mobile telephone by pressing more than a
single button; or
      (3)   Reaching for a mobile telephone in a manner that requires a driver
to maneuver so that the driver is no longer in a seated driving position, or
restrained by a seat belt that is installed in accordance with 49 C.F.R. §
393.93 and adjusted in accordance with the vehicle manufacturer’s instructions.
   VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4506.01)
§ 79.02 PREREQUISITES TO OPERATION OF A COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Except as provided in subsections (B) and (C) of this section, the
following shall apply:
      (1)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in
this Municipality unless the person holds, and has in the person's possession,
any of the following:
         (a)   A valid commercial driver's license with proper endorsements for
the motor vehicle being driven, issued by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, or
by another jurisdiction recognized by this State;
         (b)   A valid examiner's commercial driving permit issued under Ohio
R.C. 4506.13;
         (c)   A valid restricted commercial driver's license and waiver for
farm-related service industries issued under Ohio R.C. 4506.24;
         (d)   A valid commercial driver's license temporary instruction permit
issued by the Registrar, provided that the person is accompanied by an
authorized state driver's license examiner or tester or a person who has been
issued and has in the person's immediate possession a current, valid commercial
driver's license and who meets the requirements of Ohio R.C. 4506.06(B).
      (2)   No person who has been a resident of this State for thirty days or
longer shall drive a commercial motor vehicle under the authority of a
commercial driver’s license issued by another jurisdiction.
   (B)   Nothing in subsection (A) of this section applies to any qualified
person when engaged in the operation of any of the following:
      (1)   A farm truck;
      (2)   Fire equipment for a fire department, volunteer or nonvolunteer
fire company, fire district, joint fire district, or the State Fire Marshal;
      (3)   A public safety vehicle used to provide transportation or emergency
medical service for ill or injured persons;
      (4)   A recreational vehicle;
      (5)   A commercial motor vehicle within the boundaries of an eligible
unit of local government, if the person is employed by the eligible unit of
local government and is operating the commercial motor vehicle for the purpose
of removing snow or ice from a roadway by plowing, sanding, or salting, but
only if either the employee who holds a commercial driver’s license issued
under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4506 and ordinarily operates a commercial motor vehicle
for these purposes is unable to operate the vehicle, or the employing eligible
unit of local government determines that a snow or ice emergency exists that
requires additional assistance;
      (6)   A vehicle operated for military purposes by any member or uniformed
employee of the armed forces of the United States or their reserve components,
including the Ohio national guard. This exception does not apply to United
States reserved technicians.
      (7)   A commercial motor vehicle that is operated for nonbusiness
purposes. “Operated for nonbusiness purposes” means that the commercial motor
vehicle is not used in commerce as “commerce” is defined in 49 C.F.R. 383.5, as
amended, and is not regulated by the Public Utilities Commission pursuant to
Ohio R.C. Chapter 4905, 4921, or 4923.
      (8)   A motor vehicle that is designed primarily for the transportation
of goods and not persons, while that motor vehicle is being used for the
occasional transportation of personal property by individuals not for
compensation and not in the furtherance of a commercial enterprise.
      (9)   A police SWAT team vehicle.
      (10)   A police vehicle used to transport prisoners.
   (C)   Nothing contained in subsection (B)(5) of this section shall be
construed as preempting or superseding any law, rule, or regulation of this
State concerning the safe operation of commercial motor vehicles.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC 4506.03)
§ 79.03 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having in the person’s
possession or otherwise under the person’s control more than one valid driver’s
license issued by this state, any other state, or by a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality
in violation of an out-of-service order while the person’s driving privilege is
suspended, revoked, or cancelled, or while the person is subject to
disqualification;
      (3)   Drive a motor vehicle on a highway in the municipality under the
authority of a commercial driver’s license issued by another state or a foreign
jurisdiction, after having been a resident of this state for 30 days or longer;
      (4)   Knowingly give false information in any application or
certification required by R.C. § 4506.07;
      (5)   Knowingly provide false statements or engage in any fraudulent act
related to testing for a commercial driver’s license as required in R.C. §
4506.09.
   (B)   The municipality shall give every conviction occurring out of this
state and notice of which was received by the state Department of Public Safety
after December 31, 1989, full faith and credit and treat it for sanctioning
purposes under this chapter as though the conviction had occurred in this
state.
(R.C. § 4506.04(A), (B))
   (C)   No person shall drive any commercial motor vehicle for which an
endorsement is required under R.C. § 4506.12 unless the proper endorsement
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit. No person shall drive a commercial motor
vehicle in violation of a restriction established under R.C. § 4506.12 that
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit.
(R.C. § 4506.12(I))
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of
falsification, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition, the provisions
of R.C. § 4507.19 apply.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(5) of this section is guilty of
falsification, a misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition, the provisions
of R.C. § 4507.19 apply.
(R.C. § 4506.04(C))
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   The offenses established under division (C) of this section are
strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
whether in this section or another section of this code or the Ohio Revised
Code, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4506.12(J))
§ 79.04 CRIMINAL OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person who holds a commercial driver's license, commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit or who operates a motor vehicle for which
a commercial driver's license is required shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having a measureable or
detectable amount of alcohol or of a controlled substance in the person's
blood, breath or urine;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of four-hundredths of one per cent or more by whole blood or
breath;
      (3)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of forty-eight-thousandths of one per cent or more by blood serum
or blood plasma;
      (4)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of fifty-six-thousandths of one per cent or more by urine;
      (5)   Drive a motor vehicle while under the influence of a controlled
substance;
      (6)   Drive a motor vehicle in violation of Ohio R.C. 4511.19 or a
municipal OVI ordinance as defined in Ohio R.C. 4511.181;
      (7)   Use a motor vehicle in the commission of a felony;
      (8)   Refuse to submit to a test under Ohio R.C. 4506.17 or 4511.191;
      (9)   Operate a commercial motor vehicle while the person's commercial
driver’s license or permit or other commercial driving privileges are revoked,
suspended, canceled, or disqualified;
      (10)   Cause a fatality through the negligent operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, including, but not limited to, the offenses of aggravated
vehicular homicide, vehicular homicide, and vehicular manslaughter;
      (11)   Fail to stop after an accident in violation of Sections
72.66 to
72.68;
      (12)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle in violation of any provision of
Ohio R.C. 4511.61 to 4511.63 or any federal or local law or ordinance
pertaining to railroad-highway grade crossings;
      (13)   Use a motor vehicle in the commission of a felony involving the
manufacture, distribution, or dispensing of a controlled substance as defined
in Ohio R.C. 3719.01 or the possession with intent to manufacture, distribute,
or dispose a controlled substance;
      (14)   Use a commercial motor vehicle in the commission of a violation of
R.C. § 2905.32 or any other substantially equivalent offense established under
federal law or the laws of another state.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
   (C)   The offenses established under division (A) of this section are strict
liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of these
offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply that any
other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a
strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4506.12)
§ 79.05 EMPLOYMENT OF DRIVERS OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Each employer shall require every applicant for employment as a driver
of a commercial motor vehicle to provide the applicant’s employment history for
the ten years preceding the date the employment application is submitted to the
prospective employer. The following information shall be submitted:
      (1)   A list of the names and addresses of the applicant’s previous
employers for which the applicant was the operator of a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (2)   The dates the applicant was employed by these employers;
      (3)   The reason for leaving each of these employers.
   (B)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize any driver employed by
the employer to drive a commercial motor vehicle during any period in which any
of the following apply:
      (1)   The driver's commercial driver's license is suspended, revoked or
canceled by any state or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   The driver has lost the privilege to drive, or currently is
disqualified from driving, a commercial motor vehicle in any state or foreign
jurisdiction;
      (3)   The driver, the commercial motor vehicle the driver is driving, or
the motor carrier operation is subject to an out-of-service order in any state
or foreign jurisdiction;
      (4)   The driver has more than one driver's license.
   (C)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in violation of Section
79.04.
   (D)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle if the driver does not hold a valid, current
commercial driver's license or commercial driver's license temporary
instruction permit bearing the proper class or endorsements for the vehicle. No
employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of the restrictions on the driver's commercial
driver's license or commercial driver's license temporary instruction permit.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates subsection (A), (B) or (D) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates subsection (C) of this section may be assessed a
fine not to exceed ten thousand dollars. (ORC 4506.20)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
   
90.   ANIMALS
   
91.   LIQUOR CONTROL
   
92.   STREET AND SIDEWALK EXCAVATIONS AND OBSTRUCTIONS
   
93.   TREES, WEEDS, AND GRASSES (Repealed)
   
94.   INCOME TAX
   
94.5.   INCOME TAX EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2016
   
95.   PARKS AND RECREATION
   
96.   LOST OR ABANDONED PROPERTY
   
97.   RIGHTS OF WAY
   
98.   EMERGENCY SERVICES
   
99.   SMALL CELL FACILITIES AND WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
90.01   Definitions.
90.02   Animals, cats and dogs running at large.
90.021   Tethering and trolleying of dogs.
90.03   Impounding and disposition; records.
90.04   Abandoning animals.
90.05   Killing, injuring or poisoning animals.
90.06   Cruelty to animals generally.
90.061   Cruelty to companion animals.
90.07   Nuisance conditions prohibited.
90.08   Registration of dogs; tags to be worn.
90.09   Hindering capture of an animal.
90.10   Animal bites; quarantine and reporting.
90.11   Hunting prohibited.
90.12   Animal owners liable for damage to property.
90.13   Birds and animals constituting a nuisance; abatement.
90.14   Outdoor feeding prohibited.
90.15   Marketing wild, dangerous or exotic animals.
90.16   Keeping wild, dangerous or exotic animals.
90.17   Compliance with orders from the City Manager.
90.18   Escape of animal; notification.
90.19   Community cat management; permitted acts
90.20   Dangerous dog registration certificate, debarking dogs
§ 90.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (A)   ANIMAL. Means any live, vertebrate creature, domestic or wild.
   (B)   ANIMAL WARDEN. Means any Officer with the Montgomery County Animal
Resource Center, Dayton Humane Society or Police Officer.
   (C)   AT LARGE. Means off the premises of the owner and/or not under control
or restrained.
   (D)   CAT. Means any animal of the felis catus species, male or female.
   (E)   COMMUNITY CAT. Means an outdoor free-roaming cat, feral or not,
unidentified and unowned that may be cared for by a community cat medical
caregiver, known or unknown, pursuant to this chapter.
   (F)   COMMUNITY CAT MEDICAL CARE-GIVER. Means a person who, in accordance
with and pursuant to a policy of Trap-Neuter-Return as well as the permitted
acts of community cat management, humanely traps, seeks medical care from a
properly licensed veterinarian and returns cat(s) to their place of capture,
while not being considered the owner, harborer, controller, or keeper of a
community cat.
   (G)   DANGEROUS. Means any wild animal, reptile, or fowl which is
carnivorous and is not naturally tame or gentle but is of a wild nature or
disposition; and which because of its size, vicious nature, or other
characteristics would constitute a danger to humane life or property if it is
not kept or maintained in a safe manner or in secure quarters.
   (H)   DANGEROUS DOG. Means a dog that, without provocation, has done any of
the following.
      (1)   Caused injury, other than killing or serious injury, to any person.
      (2)   Caused serious injury to another dog.
      (3)   Or been the subject of a third or subsequent violation of division
(E) of R.C. § 955.22.
         (a)   DANGEROUS DOG does not include a police dog that has caused
injury to any person, or has killed another dog while the police dog is being
used to assist one or more law enforcement officers in the performance of their
official duties.
   (I)   DOG. Means any member of the canis lupus familiaris species, male or
female.
   (J)   DOMESTICATED. Means any animal which is accepted by the general public
as tamable and bred as a tamed animal for the purposes of man.
   (K)   EAR-TIPPING. Means the removal of the distal one-quarter of a
community cat's left ear, which is approximately 1/4-inch, or .635 cm, in an
adult and proportionally smaller in a kitten. This procedure is performed under
sterile conditions while the cat is under  anesthesia, in compliance with any
applicable federal or state law, and under the supervision of a licensed
veterinarian. Ear-tipping is designed to identify a community cat as being
sterilized and lawfully vaccinated for rabies.
   (L)   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Means any animal foreign, including a hybrid offspring
thereof, not indigenous to the State of Ohio and all animals defined under R.C.
§ 935.01(C).
   (M)   IN LEASH. Means the animal is securely attached to a leash of size,
type and strength necessary to control the behavior of the animal to which the
leash is attached, and the leash is securely attached to a physical restraint
of size and strength to maintain the animal within the restrained physical area
of the leash, or the leash is securely held at all times in the hand of a
person with reasonable judgment and the physical size to control the behavior
of the leashed animal. The leash shall be no longer than six feet in length.
   (N)   MENACING FASHION. Means that a dog would cause any person being chased
or approached to reasonably believe that the dog will cause physical injury to
that person.
   (O)   NUISANCE DOG. Means a dog that without provocation and while off the
premises of its owner, keeper, or harborer has chased or approached a person in
either a menacing fashion or an apparent attitude of attack or has attempted to
bite or otherwise endanger any person.
      (1)   NUISANCE DOG does not include a police dog that while being used to
assist one or more law enforcement officers in the performance of official
duties has chased or approached a person in either a menacing fashion or an
apparent attitude of attack or has attempted to bite or otherwise endanger any
person.
   (P)   OWNER. Means any person, firm, corporation, business, or any
affiliated or unaffiliated group of persons owning, keeping, possessing,
harboring, maintaining or having the care, custody and control of one or more
animals. Any entity shall be presumed to be the owner, keeper or harborer of an
animal for purposes of this chapter if such entity causes or does the
following:
      (1)   Knowingly allows any animal to remain upon his or her property;
      (2)   Knowingly or recklessly feeds such animal food or water;
      (3)   Knowingly restrains such animal from leaving his or her property.
   (Q)   POLICE DOG. Means a dog that has been trained, and may be used, to
assist one or more law enforcement officers in the performance of their
official duties
   (R)   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Means any animal which:
      (1)   Molests passersby or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Attacks other animals;
      (3)   Trespasses on school grounds;
      (4)   Is repeatedly at large;
      (5)   Damages private or public property; or
      (6)   Vocally disturbs the peace.
   (S)   RESTRICTED SNAKE. Means any snake as defined in R.C. Chapter 935.
   (T)   SERIOUS INJURY. Means any of the following:
      (1)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
      (2)   Any physical harm that involves a permanent incapacity, whether
partial or total, or a temporary substantial incapacity;
      (3)   Any physical harm that involves a permanent disfigurement or a
temporary, serious disfigurement;
      (4)   Any physical harm that involves acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering or any degree of prolonged or intractable
pain.
   (U)   SHELTER. Means a man-made enclosure, windbreak, sunshade, or natural
windbreak or sunshade that is developed from the earth's contour, tree
development, or vegetation, a structure or device sufficient to protect any
animal from direct contact with the elements (sun, wind, rain, snow, ice, etc.)
   (V)   STRAY. Means any animal running at large without identification.
   (W)   TRAP-NEUTER-RETURN. Means the process of humanely trapping,
sterilizing, vaccinating for rabies, ear-tipping, and returning community cats
to their original location.
   (X)   TETHER. Means a rope, cable or chain of adequate size and strength to
effectively restrain the dog. Tethers shall be no shorter than 15 feet in
length nor shall they weigh more than one-eighth of the dog's weight.
   (Y)   TROLLEY SYSTEM. Means a cable and pulley system with a tether attached
to two stationary points no shorter than seven feet in height and 15 feet in
length between fixed points.
   (Z)   VICIOUS DOG. Means a dog that, without provocation has killed or
caused serious injury to any person, or has killed another dog.
      (1)   VICIOUS DOG does not include either of the following:
         (a)   A police dog that has killed or caused serious injury to any
person while the police dog is being used to assist one or more law enforcement
officers in the performance of their official duties;
         (b)   A dog that has killed or caused serious injury to any person
while a person was committing or attempting to commit a trespass or other
criminal offense on the property of the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog.
   (AA)   WILD ANIMAL. Means any animal which generally lives in its original,
natural state and habitat, including a hybrid offspring thereof, which is not
naturally tamed or domesticated.
   (BB)   WITHOUT PROVOCATION. Means that a dog was not teased, tormented, or
abused by a person, or that the dog was not coming to the aid or the defense of
a person who was not engaged in illegal or criminal activity and who was not
using the dog as a means of carrying out such activity.
(Ord. 3562. Passed 6-9-15; Ord. 3655. Passed 10-22-19.)
§ 90.02 ANIMALS, CATS AND DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person being the owner, keeper, harborer of or having charge of
horses, mules, goats, swine, bison, llamas, alpacas, cattle, sheep, geese,
ducks, turkeys, chickens or other fowl or animals shall permit them to run at
large upon any unenclosed lands, or upon the premises of another.
   (B)   No person being the owner, keeper, harborer of or having charge of
dogs shall permit them to run at large upon any unenclosed lands, or upon the
premises of another, nor shall they fail at any time to do either of the
following:
      (1)   Keep the dog physically confined or restrained upon the premises of
the owner, keeper, or harborer by a leash, tether, adequate fence, supervision,
or secure enclosure to prevent escape; or
      (2)   Keep the dog under the reasonable control of some person; or
      (3)   Keep the dog in leash when not on the premises of the owner, keeper
or harborer.
   (C)   Exception to subsection (B) above shall be when the dog is lawfully
engaged in hunting and accompanied by the owner, keeper, harborer, or handler
of the dog.
   (D) No owner, keeper, harborer of or having charge of any cat shall permit
them to run at large upon any unenclosed lands, or upon the premises of
another, nor shall they fail at any time to do either of the following:
      (1)   Keep the cat physically confined or restrained upon the premises of
the owner, keeper, harborer of or having charge of by an adequate fence or
secure enclosure to prevent escape; or
      (2)   Keep the cat under the control of some responsible person so the
cat does not roam unsupervised off the premises of the owner.
   (E)   No owner, keeper, or harborer of any female dog or cat shall permit it
to go beyond the premises of the owner, keeper, or harborer at any time the dog
or cat is in heat unless the dog or cat is properly in leash and under the
reasonable control of a person.
   (F)   Enclosures. Any dog or cat enclosed in a pen or a fenced yard must
have adequate space for exercise based on a dimension of not less than one
hundred fifty (150) square feet per dog or one hundred (100) square feet per
cat. The fence or enclosure shall be of sufficient height not to exceed six (6)
feet to prevent the dog or cat from escaping from the enclosed area. If the
enclosed area has a cover, such cover must be at least two (2) feet above the
height of the dog or cat standing on its hind legs. Dogs and cats in an
enclosed area must have continuous unrestricted access to food, water and
shelter.
   (G)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates any provision of this section as a first time
offense is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever violates any provision of this section in a second or
subsequent offense shall be guilty of a fourth degree misdemeanor. (Ord. 3562.
Passed 6-9-15.)
§ 90.021 TETHERING AND TROLLEYING OF DOGS.
   (A)   Dogs age six (6) months or older may be restrained by means of a
trolley system or fixed point tethering system if the following conditions are
met:
      (1)   Only one fixed point tethering or trolley system shall be permitted
per each addressed property and only one dog may be tethered to said system at
any one time.
      (2)   Tethers must have swivels on both ends and be of adequate size and
strength to effectively restrain the dog.
      (3)   The tether must be attached to a properly fitted collar or harness
worn by the dog. There shall be enough room between the collar and dog's throat
for two average adult fingers to fit or approximately one and one-half (1½) to
two (2) inches.
      (4)   Collars and harnesses shall be made of leather or nylon and be a
minimum of one (1) inch wide.
      (5)   Choke, prong, and pinch collars used in conjunction with tethering
are strictly prohibited.
      (6)   The dog shall be tethered at a sufficient distance from any object
to (a) prevent tangling of the tether, (b) to prevent extending the tether over
an object or edge that could result in strangulation, and (c) to prevent the
dog access to any fence.
      (7)   Tethered or trolleyed dogs shall have unrestricted access to
sufficient shelter.
      (8)   No dog shall be tethered (a) between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:
00 a.m., (b) outside in periods of extreme weather i.e. extreme heat or cold,
thunderstorms, lightning, or tornadoes, (c) outside if classified as a nuisance
or dangerous dog by the court.
      (9)   No dog shall be tethered to a stationary point for more than two
(2) consecutive hours in a twelve (12) hour period.
      (10)   No dog shall be tethered for more than twelve (12) consecutive
hours in a twenty-four (24) hour period.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit owners or
others from walking dogs while in-leash.
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates any provision of this section as a first time
offense is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever violates any provision of this section in a second or
subsequent offense shall be guilty of a fourth degree misdemeanor. (Ord. 3562.
Passed 6-9-15.)
§ 90.03 IMPOUNDING AND DISPOSITION; RECORDS.
   (A)   The Police Department or Animal Warden may impound every cat, dog,
wild, dangerous or exotic animal found in violation of this code of ordinances,
county or state laws pertaining to animals. If the dog is found not wearing a
valid dog license tag, the dog shall forthwith be turned over to an officer in
charge by law with the custody and disposal of such dogs. If the dog is wearing
a valid dog license tag or the identity of the owner or custodian is otherwise
established, the Animal Warden shall immediately cause notice to be given to
the licensee, owner or custodian that the dog has been impounded. The notice
may be by telephone or by posting the property of the licensee, owner or
custodian or by certified mail to the last known address of the licensee, owner
or custodian. The dog shall not be released except upon payment of reasonable
expenses for its taking and keeping. Any properly licensed dog remaining
unclaimed within fourteen (14) days of mailing or written notice or of actual
notice thereof, shall be sold or otherwise disposed of as provided by law. Any
impounded unlicensed dog unclaimed within two (2) days of impoundment shall be
sold or otherwise disposed of as provided by law.
   (B)   A record of all dogs impounded, the disposition of the same, the
owner’s name and address, where known, and a statement of any costs or receipts
against the dog shall be kept and furnished monthly to the City Manager.
   (C)   Animals impounded by the Animal Warden that are healthy and do not
pose a danger to other animals or humans at the shelter will be kept for two
(2) days. Unclaimed animals or cats that do not pose a danger to other animals
or humans at the shelter shall be sold or otherwise disposed of as provided by
law. Animals, cats or dogs may be immediately euthanized if deemed unhealthy or
dangerous by the Animal Warden.
   (D)   Wild animals are the property of the state and can be disposed of at
the discretion of the Animal Warden or Chief of Police.
   (E)   The City Manager is authorized to enact agreements with the Montgomery
County Animal Resource Center or other parties necessary for the enforcement of
this section. On the execution of a certain agreement by the City of West
Carrollton and the Montgomery County Animal Resource Center or other party the
Animal Warden authorized under the terms of such agreement is authorized to
impound any stray animal, cat or dog found in violation of this chapter or Ohio
R.C. §§ 955.21 and 955.22, and to issue citations for the purpose of giving
notice to the owners of the animals as provided in §
90.03 of this Code.
   (F)   Process of citations issued by either the City of West Carrollton
Police Department or the Montgomery County Animal Resource Center shall be as
follows:
      (1) West Carrollton Police Department. The citation shall direct the
owner to appear and to present the citation to the Clerk of Courts, on or
before the date and hour specified thereon; that upon such presentation of the
citation to the Clerk of Courts , the owner may file a written plea of guilty
with the Clerk and pay the bond duly established for a violation of this
section the owner may be cited under, or the owner may register the citation
for court and receive at that time a date for their appearance in the Mayor's
Court for a hearing upon the charge.
      (2)   Montgomery County Animal Resources Center.  Shall follow the
procedures as established by the Miamisburg Municipal Courts. (Ord. 3562.
Passed 6-9- 15.)
§ 90.04 ABANDONING ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person who is the owner, keeper, harborer of or have charge of a
cat, dog or other domestic animal shall abandon such animal.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second
degree on the first offense and a misdemeanor of the first degree on each
subsequent offense.
(Ord. 3533. Passed 10-8-13.)
§ 90.05 KILLING, INJURING OR POISONING ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously, or willfully, kill, or injure any animal
that is the property of another. This section does not apply to a licensed
veterinarian, police officer or Animal Warden acting in an official capacity.
   (B)   No person shall, maliciously or willfully place any poisoned food
where it may be easily found and eaten by children or animals, either upon his
own lands or the lands of another. No person shall maliciously or willfully and
without consent of the owner, administer poison to any animal that is the
property of another. This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian
acting in an official capacity.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section, if the value of the
animal killed or the injury done amounts to less than $150, is guilty of a
second degree misdemeanor; if the value of the animal killed or the injury done
amounts to $150 or more, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. Whoever violates division (B) of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Ord. 3533. Passed 10-8-13.)
§ 90.06 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person shall torture an animal, deprive one of necessary
sustenance, unnecessarily or cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill, or
impound or confine an animal without supplying it during such confinement with
a sufficient quantity of good wholesome food and water. No person shall carry
or convey an animal in a cruel or inhuman manner, or keep animals other than
cattle, poultry or fowl, swine, sheep, or goats in an enclosure without
wholesome exercise and change of air, or feed cows on food that produces impure
and unwholesome milk. No person shall detain livestock in railroad cars or
compartments longer than 28 hours after they are so placed without supplying
them with necessary food, water, and attention, nor permit such stock to be so
crowded as to overlie, crush, wound, or kill each other.
   (B)   No person shall impound or confine an animal without affording it,
during confinement, access to shelter from wind, rain, snow, or excessive
direct sunlight if it can reasonably be expected that the animal would
otherwise become sick or in some other way suffer. This provision does not
apply to animals impounded or confined prior to slaughter.      
   (C)   Upon the written request of the owner or person in custody of any
particular shipment of livestock, which written request shall be separate and
apart from any printed bill of lading or other railroad form, the length of
time in which such livestock may be detained in any cars or compartments
without food, water, and attention, may be extended to 36 hours without penalty
therefore. This section does not prevent the dehorning of cattle.
   (D)   All fines collected for violations of this section shall be paid to
the society or association for the prevention of cruelty to animals, if there
be such in the county, township, or Municipal Corporation where such violation
occurred.
   (E)   Whoever violated this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
(Ord. 3533. Passed 10-8-13.)
§ 90.061 CRUELTY TO COMPANION ANIMALS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   COMPANION ANIMAL means any animal that is kept inside a residential
dwelling and any dog or cat regardless of where it is kept, including a pet
store as defined in R.C. § 956.01. COMPANION ANIMAL does not include livestock
or any wild animal.
      (2)   CRUELTY, TORMENT and TORTURE have the same meanings as in R.C. §
1717.01.
      (3)   RESIDENTIAL DWELLING means a structure or shelter or the portion of
a structure or shelter that is used by one or more humans for the purpose of a
habitation.
      (4)   PRACTICE OF VETERINARY MEDICINE has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4741.01.
      (5)   WILD ANIMAL has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
      (6)   FEDERAL ANIMAL WELFARE ACT means the "Laboratory Animal Act of
1966", Pub. L. No. 89-544, 80 Stat. 350 (1966), 7 U.S.C.A. 2131 et seq., as
amended by the "Animal Welfare Act of 1970", Pub. L. No. 91-579, 84 Stat. 1560
(1970), the "Animal Welfare Act Amendments of 1976", Pub. L. No. 94-279, 90
Stat. 417 (1976), and the "Food Security Act of 1985", Pub. L. No. 99-198, 99
Stat. 1354 (1985), and as it may be subsequently amended.
      (7)   DOG KENNEL means an animal rescue for dogs that is registered under
R.C. § 956.06, a boarding kennel or a training kennel.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly torture, torment, needlessly mutilate or
maim, cruelly beat, poison, needlessly kill, or commit an act of cruelty
against a companion animal.
   (C)   No person who confines or who is the custodian or caretaker of a
companion animal shall negligently do any of the following:
      (1)   Torture, torment or commit an act of cruelty against the companion
animal;
      (2)   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance, or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water, if it can reasonably
be expected that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other
way as a result of or due to the deprivation or confinement;
      (3)   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably be expected
that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way as a
result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
   (D)   No owner, manager or employee of a dog kennel who confines or is the
custodian or caretaker of a companion animal shall negligently do any of the
following:
      (1)   Torture, torment, or commit an act of cruelty against the companion
animal;
      (2)   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance, or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water, if it can reasonably
be expected that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other
way as a result of or due to the deprivation or confinement;
      (3)   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably be expected
that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way as a
result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
   (E)   Divisions (B), (C) and (D) of this section do not apply to any of the
following:
      (1)   A companion animal used in scientific research conducted by an
institution in accordance with the Federal Animal Welfare Act and related
regulations;
      (2)   The lawful practice of veterinary medicine by a person who has been
issued a license, temporary permit, or registration certificate to do so under
R.C. Chapter 4741;
      (3)   Dogs being used or intended for use for hunting or field trial
purposes, provided that the dogs are being treated in accordance with usual and
commonly accepted practices for the care of hunting dogs;
      (4)   The use of common training devices, if the companion animal is
being treated in accordance with usual and commonly accepted practices for the
training of animals;
      (5)   The administering of medicine to a companion animal that was
properly prescribed by a person who has been issued a license, temporary
permit, or registration certificate under R.C. Chapter 4741.
   (F)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense. On each subsequent offense
such person is guilty of a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
first degree on each subsequent offense.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (a)   A court may order a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty
to a violation of this section to forfeit to an impounding agency, as defined
in R.C. § 959.132, any or all of the companion animals in that person's
ownership or care. The court also may prohibit or place limitations on the
person's ability to own or care for any companion animals for a specified or
indefinite period of time.
         (b)   A court may order a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty
to a violation of this section to reimburse an impounding agency for the
reasonably necessary costs incurred by the agency for the care of a companion
animal that the agency impounded as a result of the investigation or
prosecution of the violation, provided that the costs were not otherwise paid
under R.C. § 959.132.
      (4)   If a court has reason to believe that a person who is convicted of
or pleads guilty to a violation of this section suffers from a mental or
emotional disorder that contributed to the violation, the court may impose as a
community control sanction or as a condition of probation a requirement that
the offender undergo psychological evaluation or counseling. The court shall
order the offender to pay the costs of the evaluation or counseling.
(Ord. 3655, passed 10-22-19)
Statutory reference:
   Prohibitions concerning companion animals, see R.C. § 959.131
   Violation; penalties, see R.C. § 959.99
§ 90.07 NUISANCE CONDITIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person being the owner, keeper, harborer of or having charge of any
cat, dog or other animal shall permit such cat, dog or other animal to become a
public nuisance as defined in §
90.01(N).
   (B)   No person shall keep or harbor any animal or fowl in the municipality
so as to create offensive odors or unsanitary conditions which are a menace to
the health, comfort or safety of the public.
   (C)   No person being the owner, keeper, harborer of or having charge of any
cat, dog or other animal shall permit such cat, dog or other animal to excrete
upon any public property or the premises of another. In the event this occurs,
the person being the owner, keeper, harborer of or having charge of such cat,
dog or other animal shall cause the excrement to be completely removed
forthwith.
   (D)   No person being the owner, keeper, harborer of or having charge of any
cat, dog or other animal shall permit such cat, dog or other animal to
intentionally or unintentionally bark, whine, yelp, howl, screech, create any
offensive excessive noise, molest passersby, chase vehicles, attack other
domestic animals, or damage property of another.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 3533. Passed 10-8-13; Ord. 3655. Passed 10-22-19.)
§ 90.08 REGISTRATION OF DOGS; TAGS TO BE WORN.
   (A)   Excluding guide dogs registered under Ohio R.C. 955.011 and dogs kept
by an institution or organization for teaching and research purposes under Ohio
R.C. 955.16, no owner, keeper or harborer of or having charge or control of any
dog over three months of age after January 31st of any year, or brought from
outside the state at any time during the year, shall fail to register such dog
with the Montgomery County Auditor as required by Ohio R.C. 955.01. Any dog at
any time not wearing or having securely affixed to a collar or other attire
worn by the dog, a valid registration tag shall be prima-facie evidence of lack
of registration and subject such dog to impoundment and disposition as provided
by Ohio R.C. 955.16.
   (B)   All dogs in the city over six months of age shall be properly
immunized against rabies by their owner, keeper, harborer of or having charge
or control of. The current rabies immunization tag must be displayed on the dog
whenever the dog leaves the premises of the owner.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 3533. Passed 10-8-13.)
§ 90.09 HINDERING CAPTURE OF AN ANIMAL.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct or interfere with anyone lawfully engaged in
capturing a stray or at-large animal
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 3533. Passed 10-8-13.)
§ 90.10 ANIMAL BITES; QUARANTINE AND REPORTING.
   (A)   No person shall remove an animal that has bitten any person from the
county in which the bite occurred until a quarantine period as specified in
subsection (B) of this section has been completed. No person shall transfer any
animal that has bitten any person until the quarantine period as specified in
subsection (B) of this section has been completed, except a person may transfer
an animal to the Animal Warden or any other animal control authority.
      (1)   Subject to (A)(2) of this subsection, no person shall kill an
animal that has bitten any person until the quarantine period as specified in
subsection (B) of this section has been completed.
      (2)   Subsection (A)(1) of this section does not apply to the killing of
an animal in order to prevent further injury or death or if the animal is
diseased or seriously injured.
      (3)   No person who has killed an animal that has bitten any person in
order to prevent further injury or death or if the animal is diseased or
seriously injured shall fail to do both of the following:
         (a)   Immediately after the killing of the animal, notify the
Montgomery County Health Department or Police Department and convey the facts
relative to the bite and the killing. If the Police Department receives a call
advising of the killing of an animal that has bitten any person, they shall
notify the Montgomery County Health Department.
         (b)   Hold the body of the dead animal until the Montgomery County
Health Department claims the animal to perform tests for rabies.
   (B)   The quarantine period for an animal that has bitten any person shall
be ten (10) days or another period that the Montgomery County Health Department
determines is necessary to observe the animal for rabies.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a police dog that has bitten a person
while the police dog is under the care of a licensed veterinarian or has bitten
a person while the police dog is being used for law enforcement, correction,
prison or jail security, or investigative purposes. If after biting the person,
a police dog exhibits any abnormal behavior, the law enforcement agency and the
law enforcement officer the police dog assists, within a reasonable time after
the person is bitten, shall make the police dog available for the Montgomery
County Health Department to perform tests for rabies.
   (D)   As used in this section, "police dog" has the same meaning as in
section 2921.321 of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor
for the first offense, and guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree for a
subsequent offense.
(Ord. 3533. Passed 10-8-13.)
§ 90.11 HUNTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The hunting of animals or fowl within the municipality is prohibited.
No person shall hunt, kill, or attempt to kill any animal or fowl by the use of
firearms or any other means.   
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 3533. Passed 10-8-13.)
§ 90.12 ANIMAL OWNER LIABLE FOR DAMAGE TO PROPERTY.
   The owner, keeper, or harborer of any animal which damages or destroys
public or private property shall be held liable for the full value of the
property damaged or destroyed in addition to any penalty imposed for a
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 3533. Passed 10-8-13.)
§ 90.13 BIRDS AND ANIMALS CONSTITUTING A NUISANCE; ABATEMENT.
   Whenever any starlings, sparrows, pigeons, rodents, or other birds
constitute a nuisance in any part of the city, the Police Chief is authorized
to use all reasonable means necessary to abate the nuisance.   
(Ord. 3533. Passed 10-8-13.)
§ 90.14 OUTDOOR FEEDING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly leave food or any other type
of feed outdoors so to attract animals running at large or wild animals. The
feeding of one's own animal(s) or birds on their premises shall be the
exception so long as the feed does not attract animals whether running at large
or wild from public property, public ways or private property not owned by the
feeding person. The feeding of one's own animals shall take place during
daylight hours only so to minimize the potential risk of rabies exposure
between domestic-wild animals.
   It shall be prima facie evidence of willful violation of this section if a
person shall knowingly or recklessly:
      (1)   Leave food or any other type of feed outdoors after daylight hours;
or
      (2)   Leave food or any other type of feed outdoors unattended not in the
presence of the owner's animal; or
      (3)   Allow animals running at large, stray or wild animals to feed on
one's own property.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section as a first time offender is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of this section in a second or
subsequent offense shall be guilty of a fourth degree misdemeanor.
(Ord. 3533. Passed 10-8-13.)
§ 90.15 MARKETING WILD, DANGEROUS OR EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall market in any form wholesale, barter or trade any
wild, exotic or dangerous animal or restricted snake. Exception to the above
include those animals native to the farm and sold at auction or by private
sale, to-wit: horses, cattle, swine or poultry; and those animals sold by pet
dealers or by private sale to-wit: domestic cats, domestic dogs, domestic
rabbits, guinea pigs, chinchilla, mice, hamsters, gerbils, and non-poisonous
snakes and non-man-eating fish.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and
each day's violation shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 3533. Passed 10-8-13.)
§ 90.16 KEEPING WILD, DANGEROUS OR EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep, harbor or otherwise have control of any
wild, dangerous or exotic animal or restricted snake within the corporate
limits of the city.
   (B)   Exceptions to subsection (A) above are those who have received
approval from the State of Ohio Director of Agriculture and the City of West
Carrollton.
   (C)   Animals which may be owned, kept or harbored those animals native to
the farm, to-wit: horses, cattle swine or poultry, provided the place of
harborage is zoned agriculture or farm use; as well as domestic cats, domestic
dogs, domestic rabbits, guinea pigs, chinchillas, mice, hamsters, gerbils,
birds, non-poisonous snakes and non-man-eating fish.
   (D)   Persons who presently own, keep or harbor a dangerous, exotic or wild
animal or restricted snakes on or after January 1, 2014, shall abide by the
rules and regulations as outlined in chapter 935 of the Ohio R.C.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and
each day's violation shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 3533. Passed 10-8-13.)
§ 90.17 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDERS FROM THE CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   No person shall fail to comply with any order issued by the City
Manager or his/her designee under the terms of this chapter within fifteen (15)
days of the order.
   (B)   Whoever fails to comply with or violates this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor. Each day's violation shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 3533. Passed 10-8-13.)
§ 90.18 ESCAPE OF ANIMAL; NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   If a dangerous, wild, exotic animal or restricted snake escapes, the
person that possesses the animal or snake shall notify both the following
immediately upon discovery of the escape:
      (1)   The sheriff of the county and the chief law enforcement officer of
the municipality of where the escape occurred;
      (2)   The division of animal health in the department of agriculture by
means of the twenty-four-hour telephone number that is maintained by the
division.
   (B)   Destruction of a dangerous, wild, exotic animal or restricted
snake.   
      (1)   A law enforcement officer or natural resources law enforcement
officer may destroy a dangerous, wild, exotic animal or restricted snake that
has escaped and that poses a threat to public safety.   
      (2)   A law enforcement officer or natural resources law enforcement
officer that destroys an escaped dangerous, wild, exotic animal or restricted
snake pursuant to (B)(1) of this section is not liable for damages in a civil
action for any injury, death, or loss to personal property that allegedly
arises from the destruction of the animal or snake.
   (C)   The person that possesses a dangerous, wild, exotic animal or
restricted snake that escapes is responsible for all reasonable costs
associated with the capture or destruction of the animal or snake. The person
shall reimburse the political subdivision that employs the law enforcement
officer who captured or destroyed the dangerous, wild, exotic animal or
restricted snake for the cost incurred in the capturing or destroying the
animal or snake. However, if the law enforcement officer is a state highway
patrol trooper or if a natural resources law enforcement officer captured or
destroyed the dangerous, wild, exotic animal or restricted snake, the person
shall reimburse the state highway patrol or department of natural resources, as
applicable, for those costs.
   (D)   Whoever fails to comply with or violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(Ord. 3533. Passed 10-8-13.)
§ 90.19 COMMUNITY CAT MANAGEMENT; PERMITTED ACTS.
   (A)   Community cat medical caregivers are empowered to humanely trap
community cats to have them sterilized, ear-tipped, vaccinated against the
threat of rabies, and to return them to their original place of capture.
   (B)   A community cat medical caregiver who returns a community cat(s) to
its original place of capture while operating under the guides of Trap-Neuter-
Return is not deemed to have abandoned the cat(s).
(Ord. 3655, passed 10-22-19)
§ 90.20 DANGEROUS DOG REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE, DEBARKING DOGS.
   (A)   Except when a dangerous dog is lawfully engaged in hunting or training
for the purpose of hunting and is accompanied by the owner, keeper, harborer,
or handler of the dog, no owner, keeper, or harborer of a dangerous dog shall
fail to do either of the following:
      (1)   While that dog is on the premises of the owner, keeper, or
harborer, securely confine it at all times in a locked pen that has a top,
locked fenced yard, or other locked enclosure that has a top;
      (2)   While that dog is off the premises of the owner, keeper, or
harborer, keep that dog on a non-retractable leash or tether that is not more
than six feet in length and additionally do at least one of the following:
         (a)   Keep that dog in a locked pen that has a top, locked fenced
yard, or other locked enclosure that has a top;
         (b)   Have the non-retractable leash or tether controlled by a person
who is of suitable age and discretion or securely attach, tie, or affix the
leash or tether to the ground or a stationary object or fixture so that the dog
is adequately restrained and station such a person in close enough proximity to
that dog so as to prevent it from causing injury to any person;
         (c)   Muzzle that dog.
   (B)   No person who has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more
violations of any divisions of §
90.02, Dog at Large, or applicable state statute, involving the same dog and no
owner, keeper, or harborer of a dangerous dog shall fail to do the following:
      (1)   Obtain liability insurance with an insurer authorized to write
liability insurance in this state providing coverage in each occurrence because
of damage or bodily injury to or death of a person caused by the dangerous dog
if so ordered by a court and provide proof of that liability insurance upon
request to any law enforcement officer, county dog warden, or public health
official charged with enforcing this section;
      (2)   Obtain a dangerous dog registration certificate from the Montgomery
County Auditor pursuant to division (F) of this section, affix a tag that
identifies the dog as a dangerous dog to the dog's collar, and ensure that the
dog wears the collar and tag at all times;
      (3)   Notify the Montgomery County Animal Resource Center and the West
Carrollton Police Department immediately if any of the following occurs:
         (a)   The dog is loose or unconfined.
         (b)   The dog bites a person.
         (c)   The dog attacks another animal while the dog is off the property
of the owner of the dog.
      (4)   If the dog is sold, given to another person, or dies, notify the
county auditor within ten days of the sale, transfer, or death.
   (C)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Debark or surgically silence a dog that the person knows or has
reason to believe is a dangerous dog;
      (2)   Possess a dangerous dog if the person knows or has reason to
believe that the dog has been debarked or surgically silenced;
      (3)   Falsely attest on a waiver form provided by the veterinarian under
division (D) of this section that the person's dog is not a dangerous dog or
otherwise provide false information on that written waiver form.
   (D)   Before a veterinarian debarks or surgically silences a dog, the
veterinarian may give the owner of the dog a written waiver form that attests
that the dog is not a dangerous dog. The written waiver form shall include all
of the following:
      (1)   The veterinarian's license number and current business address;
      (2)   The number of the license of the dog if the dog is licensed;
      (3)   A reasonable description of the age, coloring, and gender of the
dog as well as any notable markings on the dog;
      (4)   The signature of the owner of the dog attesting that the owner's
dog is not a dangerous dog;
      (5)   A statement that division (C) of this section prohibits any person
from doing any of the following:
         (a)   Debarking or surgically silencing a dog that the person knows or
has reason to believe is a dangerous dog;
         (b)   Possessing a dangerous dog if the person knows or has reason to
believe that the dog has been debarked or surgically silenced;
         (c)   Falsely attesting on a waiver form provided by the veterinarian
under division (D) of this section that the person's dog is not a dangerous dog
or otherwise provide false information on that written waiver form.
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of division
(C) of this section that the veterinarian who is charged with the violation
obtained, prior to debarking or surgically silencing the dog, a written waiver
form that complies with division (D) of this section and that attests that the
dog is not a dangerous dog.
   (F)   (1)   The Montgomery County Auditor shall issue a dangerous dog
registration certificate to a person who is the owner of a dog, who is 18 years
of age or older, and who provides the following to the county auditor:
         (a)   The appropriate fee;
         (b)   The person's address, phone number, and other appropriate means
for the Animal Resource Center or county auditor to contact the person;
         (c)   With respect to the person and the dog for which the
registration is sought, all of the following:
            1.   Either satisfactory evidence of the dog's current rabies
vaccination or a statement from a licensed veterinarian that a rabies
vaccination is medically contraindicated for the dog;
            2.   Either satisfactory evidence of the fact that the dog has been
neutered or spayed or a statement from a licensed veterinarian that neutering
or spaying of the dog is medically contraindicated;
            3.   Satisfactory evidence of the fact that the person has posted
and will continue to post clearly visible signs at the person's residence
warning both minors and adults of the presence of a dangerous dog on the
property;
            4.   Satisfactory evidence of the fact that the dog has been
permanently identified by means of a microchip and the dog's microchip number.
      (2)   Upon the issuance of a dangerous dog registration certificate to
the owner of a dog, the Montgomery County Auditor shall provide the owner with
a uniformly designed tag that identifies the animal as a dangerous dog. The
owner shall renew the certificate annually for the same fee and in the same
manner as the initial certificate was obtained.
      (3)   The owner of a dangerous dog shall present the dangerous dog
registration certificate upon being requested to do so by any law enforcement
officer, dog warden, or public health official charged with enforcing this
section.
         (a)   If the owner of a dangerous dog for whom a registration
certificate has previously been obtained relocates to a new address within
Montgomery County, the owner shall provide notice of the new address to the
Montgomery County Auditor within ten days of relocating to the new address.
   (G)   Penalties:
      (1)   Whoever commits a violation of division (A) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a
misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent offense. Additionally, the
court may order the offender to personally supervise the dangerous dog that the
offender owns, keeps, or harbors, to cause that dog to complete dog obedience
training, or to do both, and the court may order the offender to obtain
liability insurance pursuant to division (B) of this section. The court, in the
alternative, may order the dangerous dog to be humanely destroyed by a licensed
veterinarian, the county dog warden, or the county humane society at the
owner's expense.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(1), (B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section
is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (F)(3) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 3655, passed 10-22-19)
CHAPTER 91: LIQUOR CONTROL
Section
91.01   Definitions
91.02   Sales to and use by underage persons; securing public accommodations
91.021   Purchase by minor; misrepresentation.
91.03   Sales to intoxicated persons
91.04   Liquor consumption in motor vehicle
91.05   Permit required
91.06   Posting liquor age warning signs
91.07   Open container prohibited
91.08   Sale, consumption, or possession of beer or intoxicating liquors on
city property prohibited; exception
91.09   Hours of sale or consumption.
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in the Codified Ordinances:
   (A)   "Alcohol" means ethyl alcohol, whether rectified or diluted with water
or not, whatever its origin may be, and includes synthetic ethyl alcohol. Such
term excludes denatured alcohol and wood alcohol.
   (B)   "Intoxicating liquor" and "liquor" include all liquids and compounds,
other than beer as defined in subsection (c) hereof, containing one half of one
percent (0.5%) or more of alcohol by volume which are fit to use for beverage
purposes, from whatever source and by whatever process produced, by whatever
name called and whether they are medicated, proprietary or patented. Such
phrase includes cider and alcohol and all solids and confections which contain
one-half of one percent or more of alcohol by volume.
   (C)   (1)   "Beer" includes all beverages brewed or fermented wholly or in
part from malt products and containing one-half of one percent (0.5%) or more
of alcohol by volume. (ORC 4301.01)
      (2)   Beer, regardless of the percent of alcohol by volume, is not
intoxicating liquor for purposes of this chapter. (ORC 4301.244)
   (D)   "Person" includes firms and corporations.
   (E)   "Low-alcohol beverage” means any brewed or fermented malt product, or
any product made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits, or other
agricultural products, that contains either no alcohol or less than one-half of
one percent (0.5%) of alcohol by volume. The beverages described in subsection
(E) hereof do not include a soft drink such as root beer, birch beer, or ginger
beer.
   (F)   "Pod" means a sealed capsule made from plastic, glass, aluminum, or a
combination thereof to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The capsule contains intoxicating liquor of more than 21% of
alcohol by volume.
      (2)   The capsule also contains a concentrated flavoring mixture.
      (3)   The contents of the capsule are not readily accessible or intended
for consumption unless certain manufacturer’s processing instructions are
followed.
      (4)   The instructions include releasing the contents of the capsule
through a machine specifically designed to process the contents.
      (5)   After being properly processed according to the manufacturer’s
instructions, the final product produced from the capsule contains not less
than 0.5% of alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume.
   (G)   "Wine." All liquids fit to use for beverage purposes containing not
less than 0.5% of alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume,
that is made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits, or other agricultural
products. The term includes cider, except as used in R.C. §§ 4301.13, 4301.421,
4301.422, 4301.432, and 4301.44, and, for purposes of determining the rate of
the tax that applies, R.C. § 4301.43(B), the term does not include cider.
(R.C. § 4301.01)
§ 91.02 SALES TO AND USE BY UNDERAGE PERSONS; SECURING PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person shall sell beer or intoxicating liquor to an underage person, shall
buy beer or intoxicating liquor for an underage person, or shall furnish it to
an underage person unless given by a physician in the regular line of the
physician’s practice or given for established religious purposes or unless the
underage person is supervised by a parent, spouse who is not an underage
person, or legal guardian. In proceedings before the Liquor Control Commission,
no permit holder, or no employee or agent of a permit holder, charged with a
violation of this division shall be charged, for the same offense, with a
violation of R.C. § 4301.22(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   No person who is the owner or occupant of any public or private place
shall knowingly allow any underage person to remain in or on the place while
possessing or consuming beer or intoxicating liquor, unless the intoxicating
liquor or beer is given to the person possessing or consuming it by that
person’s parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian and
the parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian is present
at the time of the person’s possession or consumption of the beer or
intoxicating liquor. An owner of a public or private place is not liable for
acts or omissions in violation of this division that are committed by a lessee
of that place, unless the owner authorizes or acquiesces in the lessee’s acts
or omissions.
   (C)   No person shall engage or use accommodations at a hotel, inn, cabin,
campground, or restaurant when the person knows or has reason to know either of
the following:
      (1)   That beer or intoxicating liquor will be consumed by an underage
person on the premises of the accommodations that the person engages or uses,
unless the person engaging or using the accommodations is the spouse of the
underage person and who is not an underage person, or is the parent or legal
guardian of all of the underage persons, who consume beer or intoxicating
liquor on the premises and that person is on the premises at all times when
beer or intoxicating liquor is being consumed by an underage person.
      (2)   That a drug of abuse will be consumed on the premises of the
accommodations by any person, except a person who obtained the drug of abuse
pursuant to a prescription issued by a licensed health professionals authorized
to prescribe drugs and has the drug of abuse in the original container in which
it was dispensed to the person.
   (D)   (1)   No person is required to permit the engagement of accommodations
at any hotel, inn, cabin, or campground by an underage person or for an
underage person, if the person engaging the accommodations knows or has reason
to know that the underage person is intoxicated, or that the underage person
possesses any beer or intoxicating liquor and is not supervised by a parent,
spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian who is or will be
present at all times when the beer or intoxicating liquor is being consumed by
the underage person.
      (2)   No underage person shall knowingly engage or attempt to engage
accommodations at any hotel, inn, cabin, or campground by presenting
identification that falsely indicates that the underage person is 21 years of
age or older for the purpose of violating this section.
   (E)   (1)   No underage person shall knowingly order, pay for, share the
cost of, attempt to purchase, possess, or consume any beer or intoxicating
liquor in any public or private place. No underage person shall knowingly be
under the influence of any beer or intoxicating liquor in any public place. The
prohibitions set forth in this division against an underage person knowingly
possessing, consuming, or being under the influence of any beer or intoxicating
liquor shall not apply if the underage person is supervised by a parent, spouse
who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, or the beer or intoxicating
liquor is given by a physician in the regular line of the physician’s practice
or given for established religious purposes.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is charged with violating division (E)(1) of this
section in a complaint filed under R.C. § 2151.27, the court may order the
child into a diversion program specified by the court and hold the complaint in
abeyance pending successful completion of the diversion program. A child is
ineligible to enter into a diversion program under this division if the child
previously has been diverted pursuant to this division. If the child completes
the diversion program to the satisfaction of the court, the court shall dismiss
the complaint and order the child’s record in the case sealed under R.C. §§
2151.356 through 2151.358. If the child fails to satisfactorily complete the
diversion program, the court shall proceed with the complaint.
         (b)   If a person is charged in a criminal complaint with violating
division (E)(1) of this section, R.C. § 2935.36 shall apply to the offense,
except that a person is ineligible for diversion under that section if the
person previously has been diverted pursuant to divisions (E)(2)(a) or (E)(2)
(b) of this section. If the person completes the diversion program to the
satisfaction of the court, the court shall dismiss the complaint and order the
record in the case sealed under R.C.§ 2953.33. If the person fails to
satisfactorily complete the diversion program, the court shall proceed with the
complaint.
   (F)   No parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian of
a minor shall knowingly permit the minor to violate this section or R.C. §
4301.63, 4301.633, or 4301.634, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (G)   The operator of any hotel, inn, cabin, or campground shall make the
provisions of this section available in writing to any person engaging or using
accommodations at the hotel, inn, cabin, or campground.
   (H)   As used in this section:
      DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
      HOTEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3731.01.
      LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
      MINOR. Means a person under the age of 18 years.
      PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
      UNDERAGE PERSON. Means a person under the age of 21 years.
(R.C. § 4301.69)
   (I)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4301.633 through 4301.637, or substantially
equivalent municipal ordinances, shall not be deemed to modify or affect
divisions (A) through (H) of this section or R.C. § 4301.69.
(R.C. § 4301.638)
   (J)   (1)   Whoever violates divisions (B), (C), (D), or (F) of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If an offender who violates division (E)(1) of
this section was under the age of 18 years at the time of the offense and the
offense occurred while the offender was the operator of or a passenger in a
motor vehicle, the court, in addition to any other penalties it imposes upon
the offender, shall suspend the offender’s temporary instruction permit or
probationary driver’s license for a period of not less than six months and not
more than one year. If the offender is 15 years and six months of age or older
and has not been issued a temporary instruction permit or probationary driver’s
license, the offender shall not be eligible to be issued such a license or
permit for a period of six months. If the offender has not attained the age of
15 years and six months, the offender shall not be eligible to be issued a
temporary instruction permit until the offender attains the age of 16 years.
(R.C. § 4301.99(D))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor, shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, and in
addition to the fine, may be imprisoned for a definite term of not more than
six months.
(R.C. § 4301.99(I))
Statutory reference:
   Changes to law if federal uniform drinking age repealed or declared
unconstitutional, see R.C. § 4301.691
§ 91.021 PURCHASE BY MINOR; MISREPRESENTATION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter
4301, no person under the age of twenty-one years shall purchase beer or
intoxicating liquor. (ORC 4301.63)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter
4301, no person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the name,
age or other identification of any person under twenty-one years of age for the
purpose of obtaining or with the intent to obtain, beer or intoxicating liquor
for a person under twenty-one years of age, by purchase, or as a gift.
(ORC 4301.633)
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter
4301, no person under the age of twenty-one years shall knowingly show or give
false information concerning the person's name, age or other identification for
the purpose of purchasing or otherwise obtaining beer or intoxicating liquor in
any place where beer or intoxicating liquor is sold under a permit issued by
the Division of Liquor Control or sold by the Division of Liquor Control.
(ORC 4301.634)
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of this section for which no
other penalty is provided is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates subsection (a) hereof, shall be fined not less
than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
The court imposing a fine for a violation of subsection (A) hereof may order
that the fine be paid by the performance of public work at a reasonable hourly
rate established by the court. The court shall designate the time within which
the public work shall be completed.
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates subsection (C) hereof is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If, in committing a first violation of that
subsection, the offender presented to the permit holder or the permit holder's
employee or agent a false, fictitious or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver's license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver's
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) and not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000) and may
be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than six months.
         (b)   On a second violation in which, for the second time, the
offender presented to the permit holder or the permit holder's employee or
agent a false, fictitious or altered identification card, a false or fictitious
driver's license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver's license issued
by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree and shall be fined not less than five hundred dollars
($500.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000), and may be sentenced to
a term of imprisonment of not more than six months. The court also may impose a
class seven suspension of the offender's driver's or commercial driver's
license or permit or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified
in Ohio R.C. 4510.02(A)(7).
         (c)   On a third or subsequent violation in which, for the third or
subsequent time, the offender presented to the permit holder or the permit
holder's employee or agent a false, fictitious or altered identification card,
a false or fictitious driver's license purportedly issued by any state, or a
driver's license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000), and
may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than six months. Except
as provided in this subsection, the court also may impose a class six
suspension of the offender's driver's or commercial driver's license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in Ohio R.C.
4510.02(A)(6), and the court may order that the suspension or denial remain in
effect until the offender attains the age of twenty-one years. The court, in
lieu of suspending the offenders temporary instruction permit, probationary
driver's license or driver's license, instead may order the offender to perform
a determinate number of hours of community service, with the court determining
the actual number of hours and the nature of the community service the offender
shall perform. (ORC 4301.99)
§ 91.03 SALES TO INTOXICATED PERSONS.
   (A)   No permit holder and no agent or employee of a permit holder shall
sell or furnish beer or intoxicating liquor to an intoxicated person.
(ORC 4301.22)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(ORC 4301.99)
§ 91.04 LIQUOR CONSUMPTION IN MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall consume any beer or intoxicating liquor in a motor
vehicle. This section does not apply to persons described in Section
91.07(D). (ORC 4301.64)
   (B)   Whoever violates subsection (A) hereof is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
   (C)   If an offender who violates this section was under the age of eighteen
years at the time of the offense, the court, in addition to any other penalties
it imposes upon the offender, shall suspend the offender's temporary
instruction permit, probationary driver's license, or driver's license for a
period of not less than six months and not more than one year. In lieu of
suspending the offender's temporary instruction permit, probationary driver's
license or driver's license, the court may instead require the offender to
perform community service for a number of hours to be determined by the court.
If the offender is fifteen years and six months of age or older and has not
been issued a temporary instruction permit or probationary driver's license,
the offender shall not be eligible to be issued such a license or permit for a
period of six months. If the offender has not attained the age of fifteen years
and six months, the offender shall not be eligible to be issued a temporary
instruction permit until the offender attains the age of sixteen years. (ORC
4301.99)
§ 91.05 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person personally or by the person’s clerk, agent or employee shall
manufacture, manufacture for sale, offer, keep or possess for sale, furnish or
sell, or solicit the purchase or sale of any beer or intoxicating liquor in
this Municipality, or transport, import or cause to be transported or imported
any beer, intoxicating liquor or alcohol on or into this Municipality for
delivery, use or sale, unless the person has fully complied with Ohio R.C.
Chapters 4301 and 4303 or is the holder of a permit issued by the Division of
Liquor Control and in force at the time. (ORC 4303.25) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 POSTING LIQUOR AGE WARNING SIGNS.
   (A)   Every place in the municipality where beer, intoxicating liquor, or
any low-alcohol beverage is sold for beverage purposes shall display at all
times, in a prominent place on the premises thereof, a printed card, which
shall be furnished by the Department of Liquor Control and which shall read
substantially as follows:
WARNING TO PERSONS UNDER AGE
If you are under the age of 21
   Under the statutes of the State of Ohio, if you order, pay for, share the
cost of, or attempt to purchase or possess or consume any beer or intoxicating
liquor in any public place, or furnish false information as to name, age, or
other identification, you are subject to a fine of up to $1,000, or
imprisonment up to six months, or both.
If you are under the age of 18
   Under the statutes of the State of Ohio, if you order, pay for, share the
cost of, or attempt to purchase, or possess or consume, any type of beer or
wine that contains either no alcohol or less than one-half of one percent of
alcohol by volume in any public place, or furnish false information as to name,
age, or other identification, you are subject to a fine of up to two hundred
fifty dollars or to imprisonment up to thirty days, or both.
   (B)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Department or Liquor Control Commission for failing to
display this card. No permit issued by the Department shall be suspended,
revoked, or canceled because of the failure of the permit holder to display
this card.
   (C)   Every place in this state for which a D permit has been issued under
R.C. Ch. 4303 shall be issued a printed card by the Department of Liquor
Control that shall read substantially as follows:
WARNING
If you are carrying a firearm
   Under the statutes of Ohio, if you possess a firearm in any room in which
liquor is being dispensed in premises for which a D permit has been issued
under Chapter 4303 of the Revised Code, you may be guilty of a felony and may
be subjected to a prison term of up to one year.
   (D)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Department of Liquor Control or the Liquor Control
Commission for failing to display this card. No permit issued by the Department
shall be suspended, revoked, or canceled because of the failure of the permit
holder to display this card.
(R.C. § 4301.637) ('70 Code, § 525.06) (Ord. 2345, passed 9-14-82)
§ 91.07 OPEN CONTAINER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Chauffeured limousine” means a vehicle registered under Ohio R.C.
4503.24.
      (2)   "Street," "highway" and "motor vehicle" have the same meanings as
in Ohio R.C. 4511.01.
   (B)   No person shall have in the person’s possession an opened container of
beer or intoxicating liquor in any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   In a State liquor store;
      (2)   Except as provided in subsection (C) or (J) hereof, on the premises
of the holder of any permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control;
      (3)   In any other public place;
      (4)   Except as provided in subsection (D) or (E) hereof, while operating
or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on any street, highway or other
public or private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking;
      (5)   Except as provided in subsection (D) or (E) hereof, while being in
or on a stationary motor vehicle on any street, highway or other public or
private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking.
   (C)   (1)   A person may have in the person's possession an opened container
of any of the following:
         (a)   Beer or intoxicating liquor that has been lawfully purchased for
consumption on the premises where bought from the holder of an A-1-A, A-2, A-
2f, A-3a, D-1, D-2, D-3, D-3a, D-4, D-4a, D-5, D-5a, D-5b, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e, D-
5f, D-5g, D-5h, D-5i, D-5j, D-5k, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-7, D-8, D-9, E, F,
F-2, F-5, F-7, F-8, or F-9 permit;
         (b)   Beer, wine, or mixed beverages served for consumption on the
premises by the holder of an F-3 permit, wine served as a tasting sample by an
A-2, A-2f, S-1, or S-2 permit holder for consumption on the premises of a
farmers market for which an F-10 permit has been issued, or wine served for
consumption on the premises by the holder of an F-4 or F-6 permit;
         (c)   Beer or intoxicating liquor consumed on the premises of a
convention facility as provided in Ohio R.C. 4303.201;
         (d)   Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed during tastings and
samplings approved by rule of the Liquor Control Commission.
         (e)   Spirituous liquor to be consumed for purposes of a tasting
sample, as defined in Ohio R.C. 4301.171.
         (f)   Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed in an outdoor area
described in R.C. § 4303.188(B)(1).
      (2)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F liquor permit
premises an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor that was not
purchased from the holder of the F permit if the premises for which the F
permit is issued is a music festival and the holder of the F permit grants
permission for that possession on the premises during the period for which the
F permit is issued. As used in this section, “music festival” means a series of
outdoor live musical performances, extending for a period of at least three
consecutive days and located on an area of land of at least forty acres.
      (3)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on a D-2 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of wine that was not purchased
from the holder of the D-2 permit if the premises for which the D-2 permit is
issued is an outdoor performing arts center, the person is attending an
orchestral performance, and the holder of the D-2 permit grants permission for
the possession and consumption of wine in certain predesignated areas of the
premises during the period for which the D-2 permit is issued.
         (b)   As used in subsection (C)(3)(a) of this section:
            1.“Orchestral performance” means a concert comprised of a group of
not fewer than forty musicians playing various musical instruments.
            2.   “Outdoor performing arts center” means an outdoor performing
arts center that is located on not less than eight hundred acres of land and
that is open for performances from the first day of April to the last day of
October of each year.
      (4)   A person may have in the person's possession an opened or unopened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location at which the
person is attending an orchestral performance as defined in subsection (C)(3)
(b)(1. hereof if the person with supervision and control over the performance
grants permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating
liquor in certain predesignated areas of that outdoor location.
      (5)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F-9 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
that was not purchased from the holder of the F-9 permit if the F-9 permit
holder grants permission for the possession and consumption of beer or
intoxicating liquor in certain predesignated areas of the premises during the
period for which the F-9 permit is issued.
      (6)   (a)   A person may have in the person's possession on the property
of an outdoor motorsports facility an opened or unopened container of beer or
intoxicating liquor that was not purchased from the owner of the facility if
both of the following apply:
            1.   The person is attending a racing event at the facility; and
            2.   The owner of the facility grants permission for the possession
and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor on the property of the facility;
         (b)   As used in subsection (C)(6)(a) of this section:
            1.   "Racing event" means a motor vehicle racing event sanctioned
by one or more motor racing sanctioning organizations.
            2.   "Outdoor motorsports facility" means an outdoor racetrack to
which all of the following apply:
               a. It
is two and four-tenths miles or more in length.
               b. It is located on two hundred acres or more of land.
               c.   The primary business of the owner of the facility is the
hosting and promoting of racing events.
               d.   The holder of a D-1, D-2 or D-3 permit is located on the
property of the facility.
      (7)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location within an
outdoor refreshment area created under R.C. § 4301.82 if the opened container
of beer or intoxicating liquor was purchased from an A-1, A-1-A, A-1c, A-2, A-
2f, D class, or F class permit holder to which both of the following apply:
            1.   The permit holder's premises is located within the outdoor
refreshment area.
            2.   The permit held by the permit holder has an outdoor
refreshment area designation.
         (b)   Subsection (C)(7) of this section does not authorize a person to
do either of the following:
            1.   Enter the premises of an establishment within an outdoor
refreshment area while possessing an opened container of beer or intoxicating
liquor acquired elsewhere;
            2.   Possess an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
while being in or on a motor vehicle within an outdoor refreshment area, unless
the possession is otherwise authorized under division (D) or (E) of this
section.
         (c)   As used in division (C)(7) of this section, “D class permit
holder” does not include a D-6 or D-8 permit holder.
      (8)   (a)   A person may have in the person's possession on the property
of a market, within a defined F-8 permit premises, an opened container of beer
or intoxicating liquor that was purchased from a D permit premises that is
located immediately adjacent to the market if both of the following apply:
            1.   The market grants permission for the possession and
consumption of beer and intoxicating liquor within the defined F-8 permit
premises;
            2.   The market is hosting an event pursuant to an F-8 permit and
the market has notified the Division of Liquor Control about the event in
accordance with division (A)(3) of Ohio R.C. 4303.208.
         (b)   As used in subsection (C)(8) of this section, market means a
market, for which an F-8 permit is held, that has been in operation since 1860.
   (D)   This section does not apply to a person who pays all or a portion of
the fee imposed for the use of a chauffeured limousine pursuant to a
prearranged contract, or the guest of such a person, when all of the following
apply:
      (1)   The person or guest is a passenger in the limousine;
      (2)   The person or guest is located in the limousine, but is not
occupying a seat in the front compartment of the limousine where the operator
of the limousine is located;
      (3)   The limousine is located on any street, highway, or other public or
private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking.
   (E)   An opened bottle of wine that was purchased from the holder of a
permit that authorizes the sale of wine for consumption on the premises where
sold is not an opened container for the purposes of this section if both of the
following apply:
      (1)   The opened bottle of wine is securely resealed by the permit holder
or an employee of the permit holder before the bottle is removed from the
premises. The bottle shall be secured in such a manner that it is visibly
apparent if the bottle has been subsequently opened or tampered with.
      (2)   The opened bottle of wine that is resealed in accordance with
subsection (E)(1) of this section is stored in the trunk of a motor vehicle or,
if the motor vehicle does not have a trunk, behind the last upright seat or in
an area not normally occupied by the driver or passengers and not easily
accessible by the driver.
   (F)   (1)   Except if an ordinance or resolution is enacted or adopted under
subsection (F)(2) of this section, this section does not apply to a person who,
pursuant to a prearranged contract, is a passenger riding on a commercial
quadricycle when all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is not occupying a seat in the front of the
commercial quadricycle where the operator is steering or braking.
         (b)   The commercial quadricycle is being operated on a street,
highway or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking.
         (c)   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
an opened container of beer or wine.
         (d)   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
not more than either thirty-six ounces of beer or eighteen ounces of wine.
      (2)   The legislative authority of a municipal corporation or township
may enact an ordinance or adopt a resolution, as applicable, that prohibits a
passenger riding on a commercial quadricycle from possessing an opened
container of beer or wine.
      (3)   As used in this section, "commercial quadricycle" means a vehicle
that has fully-operative pedals for propulsion entirely by human power and that
meets all of the following requirements:
         (a)   It has four wheels and is operated in a manner similar to a
bicycle.
         (b)   It has at least five seats for passengers.
         (c)   It is designed to be powered by the pedaling of the operator and
the passengers.
         (d)   It is used for commercial purposes.
         (e)   It is operated by the vehicle owner or an employee of the owner.
   (G)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person's
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor on the premises
of a market if the beer or intoxicating liquor has been purchased from a D
liquor permit holder that is located in the market.
   As used in subsection (G) of this section, "market" means an establishment
that:
      (1)   Leases space in the market to individual vendors, not less than
fifty percent of which are retail food establishments or food service
operations licensed under Ohio R.C. Chapter 3717;
      (2)   Has an indoor sales floor area of not less than twenty-two thousand
square feet;
      (3)   Hosts a farmer's market on each Saturday from April through
December.
   (H)   (1)   As used in this section, ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE has the same meaning
as in R.C. § 4303.185.
      (2)   An alcoholic beverage in a closed container being transported under
R.C. § 4303.185 to its final destination is not an opened container for the
purposes of this section if the closed container is securely sealed in such a
manner that it is visibly apparent if the closed container has been
subsequently opened or tampered with after sealing.
   (I)   This section does not apply to a person who has in the person’s
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor in a public-use
airport, as described in R.C. § 4303.181(D)(2)(a)(iii), when both of the
following apply:
      (1)   Consumption of the opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
occurs in the area of the airport terminal that is restricted to persons taking
flights to and from the airport; and
      (2)   The consumption is authorized under R.C. § 4303.181(D)(2)(a).
   (J)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person’s
possession an opened container of homemade beer or wine that is served in
accordance with R.C. § 4301.201(E).
(ORC 4301.62)
   (K)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4301.99(A))
§ 91.08 SALE, CONSUMPTION, OR POSSESSION OF BEER OR INTOXICATING LIQUORS ON
CITY PROPERTY; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No person shall sell, consume, or possess any intoxicating liquor or
beer in or upon any city owned or controlled park, playground, buildings, or
other premises.
   (B)   No person shall possess or have control over any intoxicating liquor
or beer in or upon any city owned or controlled park, playground, buildings, or
other premises. (Ord. 1843, passed 5-14-74; Amend. Ord. 2034, passed 7-26-77)
Penalty, see §
91.99
   (C)   This section does not apply to festivals or special events for which a
permit has been issued by the City Manager granting special permission for the
serving of alcoholic beverages, nor to other properties contractually leased to
individuals, non-profit or corporate entities where the lease provides for the
sale or consumption of alcohol.
(Ord. 3546. Passed 7-8-14.)
§ 91.09 HOURS OF SALE OR CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   This rule shall apply to the retail sale of beer, wine, mixed
beverages, or spirituous liquor.
   (B)   No beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor shall be sold or
delivered by an A-1, A-1c, A-2, B-1, B-2, B-4, B-5, C-1, C-2, C-2X, D-1, D-2,
D-2X, D-3 when issued without a D-3A, D-3X, D-4, D-5H, D-5K, D-8, F, F-1, F-2,
F-3, F-4, F-5, F-6, F-7, F-8, F-9, G or I permit holder:
      (1)   From Monday to Saturday between the hours of one a.m. and five
thirty a.m.
      (2)   On Sunday between the hours of one a.m. and Sunday midnight, unless
statutorily authorized otherwise.
      (3)   Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above permit
holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages,
or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.
   (C)   No beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquid shall be sold or
delivered by an A-1A, D-3 when issued with a D-3A, D-4A, D-5, D-5A, D-5B, D-5C,
D-5D, D-5E, D-5F, D-5G, D-5I, D-5J, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, or D-7 permit
holder:
      (1)   From Monday to Saturday between the hours of two thirty a.m. and
five thirty a.m.
      (2)   On Sunday between the hours of two thirty a.m. and Sunday midnight,
unless statutorily authorized otherwise.
      (3)   Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above permit
holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages
or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.
   (D)   Permit holders authorized to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages, or
spirituous liquor at retail who are not specifically identified in subsection
(B) or (C) above shall be subject to the provisions of subsection (B), unless
statutorily authorized otherwise.
   (E)   The hours on Sunday during which sales, delivery, or consumption of
alcoholic beverages may take place are established by statute, but in no event
shall they begin prior to five thirty a.m. (OAC 4301:1-1-49)
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
CHAPTER 92: STREET AND SIDEWALK EXCAVATIONS AND OBSTRUCTIONS
Section
92.01   Permit required; exceptions
92.02   Application and plan
92.03   Permit fees
92.04   General conditions
92.05   Safety and protection of property
92.06   Backfilling trenches in pavements
92.07   Replacement of pavement
92.08   Notification of completion of work and maintenance
92.09   Cleanup
92.10   Backfill settlement
92.11   Inspection and supervision
92.12   Bond
92.13   Sewer and water taps
92.14   Violations
92.15   Notice
92.16   Prosecution of violation
92.17   Abatement
92.18   Ditch or culvert obstruction prohibited
92.19   Blocking of utility and public access easements in private drives
prohibited.
92.20   Encroachments upon public rights-of-way
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall enter upon or occupy any street,
alley, sidewalk, public way, or place for the purpose of making any sidewalk
replacement or excavations in or under streets, alleys, sidewalks, public ways,
or places for ditches, trenches, tunnels, vaults, and the like, or the laying
therein of pipes, wires, cables, conduits, and the like, or for the purpose of
the erection of poles, or for any other purpose whereby the use thereof by the
public shall be obstructed, without first obtaining a permit from the building
inspector. No person, firm, or corporation shall enter upon or occupy such
street, alley, sidewalk, public way, or place for any such purpose, except at
such times and in such manner as the building inspector shall prescribe. In
case of emergency where an opening is made when the city offices are closed, a
permit shall be taken out as soon as the city offices are opened.
   (B)   The building inspector is charged with the construction, maintenance,
and repair of streets, sidewalks, alleys, public ways, and places, and no
person, firms, or corporation, whether an abutting owner or not, shall do or
permit to be done by his or its agents, servants, or employees any act
described in division (A) of this section without first having obtained from
the building inspector a permit to do so.
   (C)   However:
      (1)   No permit shall be required for planting shade trees or grading or
sodding tree lawn space located between the property line and the curb, or for
the repair of sidewalks;
      (2)   Nothing herein contained shall control as against the express terms
of a franchise granted to a public utility to occupy the streets and public
ways of the city; and
      (3)   Nothing herein shall control in the improvement of streets or
building sewers or other public improvements by or under contract with the
city. ('70 Code, § 903.01) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 APPLICATION AND PLAN.
   (A)   The application shall give the location and dimensions of the proposed
opening, the purpose for which the opening is to be made, the kind of pavement
or surface to be opened, and the approximate time when the cut will be made.
Permits will be issued only for cuts to be made within one week of the date of
issue, unless special arrangements for a longer period of time have been
approved. The period of time allowed for closing the opening will be governed
by its size and nature. It will also be required that all applications for
mains, conduits, manholes, and other major subsurface structures be accompanied
by a plan and typical cross-section, which will show as accurately as possible
the location of the existing underground structures, the location of the
proposed structure, a cross-section of the existing paving through which the
cut is to be made and the location of all construction joints and dummy joints
in the existing paving. These plans shall be submitted in duplicate. The
issuance of a permit will be based on the approved plans. No deviation from the
approved plans will be permitted until such deviation has been approved.
   (B)   When changes in plans have been authorized, “as built” plans showing
all details as actually constructed shall be filed, upon completion of the
work.
   (C)   The building inspector shall require the applicant to furnish
satisfactory evidence that he is keeping in full force and effect a liability
insurance policy, furnishing to himself and the city protection against claims
arising out of the performance of the work covered under the permit applied
for, or in any way connected therewith, in an amount of $25,000 for any one
person injured in any accident, and with a total liability of $50,000 for all
persons injured in any one accident, and the amount of $10,000 for each
accident with an aggregate of $25,000 as compensation for damage caused to the
property of any person other than that belonging to the applicant. ('70 Code, §
903.02)
§ 92.03 PERMIT FEES.
   Permit fees are prescribed and set forth in Section
37.18 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton.
(Ord. 3262. Passed 2-24-04; amend. Ord. 3436. Passed 12-22-09.)
§ 92.04 GENERAL CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Procedure. Travel upon the street or upon any intersecting street or
alley shall not be hindered or inconvenienced needlessly. No opening shall be
made before all materials, parts, and special fittings necessary to complete
the work are on hand and available. No opening shall be kept open longer than
is necessary to properly execute the work for which the opening was made.
   (B)    Trenching.
      (1)   The length, width, and location of the trench and also the manner
in which the work is done shall conform to good construction practices and
shall be under the control of the building inspector. Every precaution shall be
taken to safeguard the work and to inconvenience the public as little as
possible. All services and laterals shall be constructed as nearly as possible
at right angles to the property line of the street.
      (2)   The pavement surface along the edges of the trench shall first be
cut as neatly as possible. The concrete and other paving materials shall then
be carefully broken out. Only methods and equipment which will insure no damage
to the adjoining pavement shall be used.
      (3)   With any street less than 3 years old, a concrete saw has to be
used, regardless of the length of the opening. In case of emergencies, the
sawing can be done before the opening is closed up.
      (4)   The use of a “headache ball” or “pear” to remove pavements, walks,
or driveways is prohibited.
   (C)   Excavated materials. Excavated materials shall be promptly removed and
disposed of as excavated. Where pitrun gravel is encountered in the excavation,
it may be used in the backfill, provided it meets the approval of the building
inspector. The maximum size will be 3 inches. When the storing of the pitrun
gravel is permitted at the site of work, the same shall be compactly piled
using plank bins or retaining walls, if necessary to prevent the gravel from
spreading over the pavement.
   (D)   Hydrants and drainings not to be blocked. Access to fire hydrants must
be provided, and no dirt or material shall be piled within 10 feet of a
hydrant. Gutters and catch basins must be kept open and drainage maintained.
When it is necessary to close a gutter or cut off a catch basin, drainage must
be maintained by the use of pumps or a flume.
   (E)   Maintenance of traffic.
      (1)   The permittee must carry on the work authorized by the permit in
such manner as to cause a minimum of traffic flow interference. On main
thoroughfares and in the congested district there must be, at all times,
sufficient traffic lanes open to permit a substantially normal traffic flow.
Unless this can be accomplished, it will be necessary that the work be confined
to the hours between 8:30 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. Exceptions to these hours are when
arrangements can be made with the police department, which will permit a change
in the hours. The traffic lanes shall have a minimum width of 10 feet unless
lanes of lesser width are approved by the building inspector. In case of a
special emergency such as a serious leak or a major impairment of service, it
will be necessary to make special arrangements with the police so that they may
be assigned to handle traffic.
      (2)   Walks, driveways, and entrances to buildings must not be blocked.
Street intersections must be kept open to traffic, sufficient space being left
for 2 lanes of traffic wherever possible. Steel plates or bridging of
sufficient size shall be furnished to cover paving cuts and to provide
crossings over trenches on main thoroughfares and at important intersections.
The plates or bridging shall be securely fastened in place to prevent their
movement under traffic.
      (3)   Tools, tool boxes, shanties, and materials shall be stored at
locations where they will cause the least inconvenience to traffic and
adjoining property.
   (F)   Night and Sunday work. Work shall be performed at night, on Sundays
and holidays, both day and night or for 7 days per week when in the opinion of
the building inspector the location or nature of the work so requires.
   (G)   Closing streets. If at any time it becomes necessary to close a
street, a special permit must be obtained from the building inspector. The
permittee shall notify the police department and fire department, where they
are involved, of the closing of the street. The building inspector will
establish a detour. ('70 Code, § 903.04) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 SAFETY AND PROTECTION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   Lights and barricades. All openings in streets, alleys, sidewalks,
public ways, or places shall be protected by suitable barricades, fences, or
railings. Where necessary, the openings shall be covered at night, preferably
with steel plates or with planks. Sufficient red lights, bombs, or flares shall
be provided to clearly indicate all openings, equipment, materials, or any
other hazard that might cause an accident.
   (B)   Temporary walks and crossings. Safe temporary walks with guard rails
or fences shall be provided when it is necessary to block or close a sidewalk
to pedestrian traffic. Bridges across a trench shall be built of sound
materials with substantial guard rails and of sufficient width and strength to
accommodate the pedestrian traffic without danger. When it is necessary to
provide bridges for vehicular traffic across openings too large to permit the
use of steel plates, the same shall be substantially constructed of sufficient
width and strength to permit the safe passage of traffic. Temporary structures,
fences, bridges, etc., shall be maintained in a safe passage condition at all
times.
   (C)   Protective bracing.
      (1)   All openings shall be properly sheeted and braced where necessary
to protect the public, workmen, and private property. This bracing and sheeting
shall be sufficient to protect all surface and subsurface structures and to
prevent the undermining of adjacent pavement, curb, sidewalks, and other
structures. Existing house connections, sewers, water mains, gas mains, conduit
lines, drain pipe, and other utilities shall be supported across trenches until
the backfill is completed.
      (2)   Sheeting and bracing used to support the sides of the openings
shall be carefully removed as the backfilling progresses, but if considered by
the building inspector to be necessary for the protection of the banks, the
sheeting shall be cut off 2 feet below the surface of the street and left in
place. If the pavement along the sides of the opening is or becomes undermined
and unsupported, the permittee shall, at his own cost and expense, break down
and remove such undermined pavement and the foundation thereof, and shall also
remove all loose earth and replace it with earth properly compacted in the
manner provided under §
92.06 (A).
   (D)   Protection of trees and shrubs. Lawns and trees shall be protected
from damage. Trees in the line of the trench must not be removed or disturbed
except with the approval of the building inspector.
   (E)   Use of hydrants. A permit issued by the building inspector must be
obtained for the use of fire hydrants. Fire department hydrant wrenches must be
provided and no other type of wrench shall be used for opening or closing the
hydrants. No person shall use a fire hydrant unless a permit is issued.
   (F)   Public utilities to be notified. Whenever it becomes necessary to
excavate under or adjacent to utility installations such as tracks, mains,
ducts, pipes, etc., notification must be given to that utility and it shall be
the duty of the permittee to properly protect the other utility property in a
safe condition so that the public may not be endangered or unnecessarily
inconvenienced. At no time will the permittee be permitted to build on top of
other utility property or be permitted to use backfill materials that have a
deleterious effect upon subsurface, pipes, and structures, which might damage
the other property. ('70 Code, § 903.05) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 BACKFILLING TRENCHES IN PAVEMENTS.
   (A)   Backfill
      (1)   Backfill on
         Class 1 -   Concrete pavement,
         Class 2 -   Brick pavement on concrete base,
         Class 3 -   Asphaltic concrete pavement on concrete base,
         Class 4 -   Asphaltic concrete pavement on stone or gravel base,
         Class 5 -   Gravel roadway (plain or oiled) and
         Class 6 -   Concrete sidewalks, shall be as follows:
         (a)   Material to be used for backfill shall be pitrun gravel with a
maximum size of 3 inches. It is not necessary for the gravel to be 40% crushed.
Also, it is permissible to use washed gravel from sizes Number 3 to Number 9.
         (b)   The granular material shall be tamped solidly under and around
the structure to a height of 6 inches above the structure. In the case of gas
mains, suitable material such as loam or stand may be substituted up to a point
6 inches above the pipe. This material shall be carefully thrown in with
shovels and not dumped directly into the trench from barrows, trucks, etc.
         (c)   Pitrun gravel shall be compacted with water. When compacting
with water, the granular material may be deposited in ponded water, or it may
be placed in layers not exceeding 3 feet loose depth, and each layer shall be
thoroughly saturated with water.
         (d)   In openings less than 25 feet, the pitrun gravel can be
backfilled by tamping with a pneumatic tamper in layers of not more than 6
inches.
         (e)   The backfill shall be brought to a plane parallel to and a
uniform depth to the subgrade below the finished pavement.
      (2)   Backfill on sodded areas and unimproved areas shall be as follows:
materials acceptable for use in backfilling shall be free from lumps and frozen
or frosted materials. Lumps larger than 3 inches in diameter shall be broken up
before placing in the fill. The material shall contain sufficient moisture to
permit compacting, but wet, soggy material is not to be used. All water and
soft mushy material shall be removed from the openings before starting the
fill. Unsatisfactory backfill material shall be replaced with pitrun gravel.
The backfill shall be compacted thoroughly.
   (B)   Tunnels under pavements. Tunneling is often necessary where a pipe or
conduit passes under the curb, tracks, or other conduits. Where tunneling
extends more than 5 feet from an opening, special permission shall be obtained.
Where tunneling has been done, the permittee shall bed the conduit being
installed in fine material to a height of one foot above the top thereof. This
fine material shall be wetted and tamped under, around, and over the pipe or
conduit in the most thorough and careful manner. The balance of the space from
the top of this filling to the roof of the tunnel shall be completely filled
with 1-12 concrete of suitable consistency, thoroughly tamped to fill the
entire space and to afford a rigid support for the tunnel roof for its entire
area. The concrete shall contain not less than 3.0 sacks of cement per cubic
yard. In the installation of small service pipes, it is suggested that the pipe
be jacked through and under tracks, curbs, etc., or that a hole be bored of
sufficient size for the pipe.
   (C)   Temporary restoration. When the pavement is to be repaired
temporarily, the fill above the bottom of the paving slab shall be made with
stabilized crusher-run gravel, Grade “A”, B-32 Base Course, well tamped into
place. This gravel shall be topped with a minimum of 2 inches of bituminous
mixture which is suitable to maintain the opening in good condition until
permanent restoration can be made. The temporary restoration shall be level
with the adjoining pavement. The permittee must exercise special care in making
temporary restoration and must maintain this temporary restoration in safe
travelable condition until such time as permanent restoration is made.
('70 Code, § 903.06) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 REPLACEMENT OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   General. The materials to be used and the method of replacement of all
pavement disturbed in the making of openings in streets or alleys shall be done
in accordance with the general construction and material specifications for
streets and sewers of the city. Special precautions shall be taken to prevent
all concrete from freezing after it is placed in position until the concrete
has thoroughly hardened. Any concrete showing injury by freezing shall be
removed and replaced. In no case shall concrete be deposited upon frozen
subgrade. Every effort shall be made to open to traffic all cuts on main
thoroughfares and in intersections at the earliest possible moment. As far as
it is physically possible to do so, steel plates or wood planks of sufficient
size shall protect newly placed concrete. All locations shall be properly
protected by barricades and red lights, flares, or bombs until such time that
they are safe to open to traffic.
   (B)   Asphaltic concrete pavement on stone or gravel base.
      (1)   The asphaltic concrete wearing surface shall be cut with a concrete
saw. All material shall be removed out of the trench to a depth of 6 inches
below the existing surface. There shall then be placed 3 inches of Grade “B”
base course as specified under Item B-32 crushed aggregate base course in the
general specifications of the city. This base course shall be thoroughly tamped
and compacted.
      (2)   The 1-1/2 inch binder course of asphaltic concrete (T-35) shall
then be placed and the street can be opened to traffic and the asphaltic
wearing surface applied at a later date.
   (C)   Gravel roadway (plain or oiled).
      (1)   All material shall be removed from the trench to a depth of 5
inches below the existing surface. There shall then be placed 3 inches of Grade
“B” base course as specified under Item B-32 crushed aggregate base course in
the general specifications of the city. This base course shall be thoroughly
tamped and compacted.
      (2)   On this base course there shall be placed 2 inches of oil aggregate
surface course, B-52 well compacted, and the street can be opened to traffic.
   (D)   Restoration of sidewalks and driveways.
      (1)   All sidewalks, curbs, and driveways that have been cut, removed,
damaged, tilted, or settled shall be replaced. Cuts in driveways over 10 feet
in width will be considered the same as cuts in pavement, and may be repaved as
such. All replacement of sidewalks and driveways shall be done in accordance
with the general construction and material specifications for streets and
sewers of the city.
      (2)   With the restoration of concrete walks, in addition to the question
of serviceability and durability of restoration, the matter of appearance will
be considered in determining the area to be restored, regardless of the size of
the opening. The restoration of complete blocks will be required in all cases
and the walk shall be cut at the joints with a concrete saw and the new work
shall be joined up with the old work in a neat and workmanlike manner. The
finish shall be the same as the surrounding area. Expansion joints shall be
restored where required, regardless of whether they existed in the original
walk.
   (E)   Restoration of sodded areas. For this type of cut, every effort must
be made to replace not only the actual disturbed area, but any adjacent area
which may have been injured or destroyed by the permittee's work. If the
existing sod can be removed and is not injured thereby, it may be replaced, but
any damaged sod must be replaced by new sod. Restoration will not be considered
complete until restored sod shall have knitted with the subgrade. Any
maintenance necessary, such as watering, shall be considered a part of the
restoration. ('70 Code, § 903.07) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 NOTIFICATION OF COMPLETION OF WORK AND MAINTENANCE OF CUTS.
   The person, firm, or corporation causing an opening to be made in any street
or alley shall notify the building inspector, upon completion of the work, that
the tunnel, cut, or trench is ready for backfilling or repaving so that an
inspection can be made, and shall maintain the cut until the opening has been
repaved with a permanent pavement when the cut is located in a paved street or
alley or until the backfill is completely settled, if located back of the curb
or in an unpaved street or alley, keeping the same suitable, safe, and
convenient for traffic. ('70 Code, § 903.08) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 CLEANUP.
   Upon completion of the work, all equipment, materials, tools, tool boxes,
temporary buildings, excavated materials, and such, shall be promptly removed
from the street, alley, or public place. The surface of the street, sidewalk,
lawns, and private property shall be cleaned, leaving the same in as neat,
clean, and usable condition as originally found. Trees damaged or removed shall
be replaced. Lawns damaged by the work shall be repaired to the satisfaction of
the building inspector. ('70 Code, § 903.09) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.10 BACKFILL SETTLEMENT.
   (A)   Any settlement of the trench during a period of one year after
permanent restoration shall be considered conclusive evidence of defective
backfilling by the permittee, and the permittee agrees, in accepting and acting
under the permit, that he will make good any such settlement during the period
of one year after the completion of the permanent restoration.
   (B)   If a dangerous condition is created by reason of the work under the
permit, the city will make temporary repairs and the cost of such repairs will
be billed to the permittee. ('70 Code, § 903.10) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.11 INSPECTION AND SUPERVISION.
   All work in streets, alleys, and other public places, for which a permit is
issued by the building inspector shall be subject to such supervision and
inspection as necessary. The expense of such city inspection and supervision
shall be borne by the person, firm, or corporation to whom the permit is
issued. ('70 Code, § 903.11)
§ 92.12 BOND.
   A cash deposit surety bond or certified check, payable to the city, shall
accompany such application to insure proper repair of the excavation. The cash
deposit or certified check will be required for any excavation less than 25
feet in length and will be computed at the rate of $10 per lineal foot of
excavation. Fifty percent of the deposit or certified check will be released
upon application after the excavation has been filled and pavement replaced.
The 50% balance shall be retained for a period of 6 months to insure the city
against additional expense due to settlement. On larger projects, a surety
bond, based upon approved estimates of the project, shall be posted until the
project has been completed and approved by the city engineer. ('70 Code, §
903.12)
§ 92.13 SEWER AND WATER TAPS.
   (A)   Trenches for water and sewer taps shall be at least 30 inches wide at
the water main to allow room to make tap. Copper line attaching to the
corporation valve shall have a sharp radius “S” shape to permit the service
line to contact the unexcavated trench within 18 inches of the main. This
radius shall be bent before attaching to the main. No lines are to be attached
to a corporation valve unless a water division inspector is present. Copper
shall be attached as soon as the tap is made and extended to the property line.
At this point a Mueller Oriseal (or equal) curb valve will be installed with
cast iron Buffalo type curb box over.
   (B)   Sewer mains shall be entered with a short saddle so as to allow no
protrusion inside the main. The contractor assumes all responsibility and
furnishes all labor to make this tap. In the event of a broken sewer main tile
resulting from the tap or excavation, replacement is required and no cement
patches will be permitted. The water division will inspect all sewer lines.
Inspections will be made during the work day, Monday through Friday. The above
does not prohibit the excavation and laying of house lines (except the tap into
the main) if left open for later inspections. ('70 Code, § 903.13) Penalty, see
§
92.99
§ 92.14 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person, firm, or corporation which performs work for which a permit is
required by this chapter without first having secured a permit therefor, and
every person, firm, or corporation which violates or assists in the violation
of any provision of this chapter shall also be responsible and liable for such
violation and subject to the penalty provided by this chapter. Any person who
mispresents a material fact in securing a permit under the provisions of this
chapter shall be in violation thereof and subject to the penalties provided
therefor. ('70 Code, § 903.14)
§ 92.15 NOTICE.
   The service director or building inspector shall serve written notice of
violation of the provisions of this chapter or of violation of a detailed
statement or a plan approved thereunder, or of violation of a permit or
certificate issued under the chapter, on the person(s) responsible for such
violation or for its remedy; and the service director or building inspector
shall order the discontinuance of illegal action, or condition, or the
abatement or correction of any such violation, or the taking of such action as
may be necessary to achieve compliance with this chapter, and either shall
serve written notice of such order on such responsible person(s). ('70 Code, §
903.15)
§ 92.16 PROSECUTION OF VIOLATION.
   If such violation is not corrected or such order is not complied with
promptly after service of such notice, the service director or building
inspector shall request the law director to institute appropriate proceedings
at law or in equity to restrain, correct, abate, or punish such violation of
the chapter or of such order. ('70 Code, § 903.16)
§ 92.17 ABATEMENT.
   The imposition of any penalty shall not preclude the appropriate official
provided for in §
92.99 from instituting an appropriate action or proceeding in a court of proper
jurisdiction to prevent an unlawful excavation, erection, construction,
alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance, or use; or to restrain, correct,
or abate a violation, or to prevent an illegal act, conduct, or use, or to
require compliance with provisions of this chapter or other applicable laws,
ordinances, rules, or regulations, or the orders or determinations of the
service director or building inspector. ('70 Code, § 903.17) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18 DITCH OR CULVERT OBSTRUCTION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall obstruct or cause the obstruction of any ditch, drain, or
watercourse of any kind, natural or artificial, within the city. ('70 Code, §
903.18) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.19 BLOCKING OF UTILITY AND PUBLIC ACCESS EASEMENTS IN PRIVATE DRIVES
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Utility and public access easements designated within private drives
in the city shall be kept open and accessible to fire, police, other emergency
vehicles, and utility maintenance vehicles at all times. These easements shall
be maintained by the owner and kept in good repair and free from all
obstructions such as ice, snow, and parked vehicles which would impede the free
movement of traffic. Whenever necessary, and in accordance with a traffic
control plan submitted by the owner and approved by the city safety director,
traffic control devices such as signs and other markings shall be provided by
the owner at no cost to the city. To insure compliance with traffic control
devices and public access easements, the city shall have full power and
authority to enforce the controls and to prosecute violators in accordance with
the laws of the state and the ordinances of the city.
   (B)   No public access easements shall be blocked for any purpose
whatsoever, without prior approval from the city safety director.
   (C)   In the event that the owner of a public access easement fails to
fulfill the obligations set out herein, the city shall have the right to take
appropriate corrective action and to charge the owner for the entire cost
thereof, and to collect the costs through an assessment against the property,
if necessary. (Ord. 1959, passed 3-23-76)
§ 92.20 ENCROACHMENTS UPON PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   No encroachment of any kind, type, or nature shall be permitted or
maintained, nor caused to be permitted or maintained, by any person, persons,
partnership, or corporation upon any public right-of-way for streets, alleys,
or sidewalks.
   (B)   (1)   The city manager may issue a revocable permit authorizing an
encroachment upon a public right-of-way for streets, alleys, or sidewalks for
those encroachments which exist on the effective date of this ordinance,
provided such encroachment does not interfere with the public use of the right-
of-way.
      (2)   The revocable permit shall provide and be issued upon the condition
that it shall terminate and be void 30 days after the holder, his heirs,
administrators, executors, successors, or assigns, receives written notice from
the city manager to remove the encroachment for the reason that the same is
interfering with the public use of the right-of-way.
      (3)   The permit holder, his heirs, administrators, executors,
successors, or assigns shall remove or cause the encroachment upon a public
right-of-way for streets, alleys, or sidewalks to be removed from the right-of-
way within 30 days after receipt of the notification from the city manager that
the permit has been revoked, and upon the expiration of the 30, day period the
city may cause the encroachment to be removed at the owner's expense.
   (C)   Encroachments upon public rights-of-way for streets, alleys, and
sidewalks for which a permit has been obtained as herein provided and which
exist on the effective date of this ordinance, shall also be removed if more
than 50% of the encroachment is destroyed by fire, wind, or storm, or the
encroachment is demolished or removed. Upon the occurrence of any one of these
contingencies, the encroachments shall be removed from the public right-of-way
within 30 days as herein provided. (Ord. 1940, passed 12-11-75) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provisions of §§
92.01 through
92.19, or fails to comply with any of its requirements or do any work upon or
in connection with the same, in violation of a plan therefor or directive
relating thereto approved or made by the service director or building
inspector, or of a permit or certificate issued under this chapter, shall be
fined not more than $50. Each day's continued violation after notice to correct
shall constitute a separate offense. ('70 Code, § 903.99)
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §
92.20 shall be deemed guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not more
than $100. Each day that the violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense. (Ord. 1940, passed 12-11-75)
CHAPTER 93: TREES, WEEDS, AND GRASSES
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Former Chapter 93 was repealed by Ordinance 3421, passed May
26, 2009. See Chapter 158, Property Maintenance Code, of the Codified
Ordinances for relevant legislation.)
CHAPTER 94: INCOME TAX
EDITOR’S NOTE: See Chapter 94.5 for income tax effective January 1, 2016.
Section
94.01   Definitions
94.02   Income tax levy
94.03   Income tax return and payment of tax
94.04   Collection of tax at the source
94.05   Exemptions/deductions
94.06   Consolidated returns
94.07   Declarations
94.08   Duty to retain records
94.09   Credit for tax paid to other municipalities
94.10   Apportionment of taxable income
94.11   Loss carry-forward
94.12   Refunds; overpayments
94.13   Extensions.
94.14   Amending an income tax return.
94.15   Failure to file/estimating returns
94.16   Collection of unpaid taxes
94.17   Penalties, interest, and fees
94.18   Criminal penalties
94.19   Allocation of funds
94.20   Board of Appeal
94.21   Board of Review
94.22   Reports by landlords, condominium associates and other organizations
94.23   Duties of the Finance Director
94.24   Investigative powers of the Finance Director
94.25   Confidentiality
94.26   Saving clause
94.27   Effective period
   EDITOR’S NOTE: The City of West Carrollton hereby declares its intent and
resolve to enact uniform provisions in its tax ordinances in accordance with
the proposals stated in Exhibit A attached to Resolution 24-2012 upon revision
of Chapter 718 of the Ohio Revised Code as recommended in Exhibit A.   
   The City encourages the Ohio General Assembly to be expeditious in revising
Chapter 718 of the Ohio Revised Code in accordance with the proposals stated in
Exhibit A and maintaining revenue neutrality.
   The City further encourages other municipalities in southwestern Ohio to
declare their intent and resolve to enact the uniform tax provisions proposed
in Exhibit A upon revision of Chapter 718 of the Ohio Revised Code.
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following words shall have the meaning ascribed
to them in this section, except as and if the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning:
   ASSOCIATION. A Partnership, limited partnership, limited liability
partnership/company, or any other form of unincorporated enterprise or business
entity, owned by two or more persons.
   BOARD OF APPEAL. A board consisting of three appointed West Carrollton
citizens in charge of reviewing penalty and/or interest abatement appeals and
then rendering an impartial decision.
   BOARD OF REVIEW. A board consisting of the City Manager, the Finance
Director, or their respective designees, and a third individual appointed by
the membership in charge of reviewing and making minor revisions to, additions
to, interpretations of, and/or clarifications of the income tax chapter.
   BUSINESS/BUSINESS ENTITY. An enterprise, venture, activity, profession or
undertaking of any nature conducted for profit or ordinarily conducted for
profit; including but not limited to the renting or leasing of property, real,
personal or mixed; whether by an individual, partnership, fiduciary, trust,
association, corporation, or any other entity.
   CORPORATION. A corporation, Subchapter S corporation, or joint stock
association organized under the laws of the United States, State of Ohio, or
any other state, territory or foreign country or dependency.
   EMPLOYEE. One who works for wages, salary, commission, or other type of
compensation in the service of an employer.
   EMPLOYER. An individual, partnership, association, corporation, governmental
body, unit, or agency, whether or not organized for profit, or any other entity
that employs one or more persons on a salary, wage, commission or other
compensation basis.
   FINANCE DIRECTOR. The individual responsible for managing the fiscal affairs
of the City of West Carrollton, including collection of all tax imposed by this
chapter.
   FISCAL YEAR. An accounting period of twelve months (12) or less ending on
any other day than December 31.
   FORM 2106. The Internal Revenue Service Form 2106 filed by a taxpayer
pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   GENERIC FORM. An electronic or paper form designed for reporting estimated
municipal income taxes and annual municipal income tax liability that is not
prescribed by a particular municipal corporation for the reporting of that
municipal corporation's tax on income.
   GROSS RECEIPTS.  The total income for any source before any deductions,
exceptions or credits are claimed which are required to be included in the tax
return.
   INTANGIBLE INCOME. Income of any of the following types: income yield,
interest, dividends, or other income arising from the ownership, sale,
exchange, or other disposition of intangible property including, but not
limited to investments, deposits, money, or credits as those terms are defined
in Chapter 5701 of the Ohio Revised Code.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 100 Stat. 2085, 26
U.S.C. 1, as amended.
   INTERNET. The international computer network of both federal and nonfederal
interoperable packet switched data networks, including the graphical sub-
network known as the world wide web.
   JOINT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT (JEDD). Districts created under Ohio
Revised Code sections 715.70 through 715.83, as amended.
   NET PROFITS. The net gain from the operation of a business, profession,
enterprise, or other activity, after provision for all ordinary and necessary
expenses either paid or accrued in accordance with the accounting system used
by the taxpayer for Federal income tax purposes without deduction of taxes
imposed by this chapter, Federal, State, or other taxes based on income; and in
the case of an association, without deduction of wages paid to partners, and
other owners; and otherwise adjusted to the requirements of this chapter.
   NON-RESIDENT. An individual domiciled outside the City of West Carrollton.
   OTHER PAYER. Any person that pays an individual any item included in the
taxable income of the individual, other than the individual's employer or that
employer's agent.
   PERSON. A human being, partnership, fiduciary, association, or corporation.
Whenever used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, "person" as
applied to any unincorporated entity means the parties or members thereof, and
as applied to corporations, the office thereof; and any employee having
control, supervision, or responsibility of tax law compliance on behalf of a
human being, partnership, fiduciary, association, or corporation.
   RESIDENT. An individual domiciled in the City of West Carrollton.
   RETURN PREPARER. Any person other than a taxpayer that is authorized by a
taxpayer to complete or file an income tax return, report, or other document
for or on behalf of the taxpayer.
   SCHEDULE C. The Internal Revenue Service Schedule C filed by a taxpayer
pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   SECTION 1231 PROPERTY. Business real estate/land or any depreciable business
property excluded from the definition of "capital assets" as defined by the
Internal Revenue Code.
   SECTION 1245 PROPERTY. Property that is or has been depreciable such as
personal property or other tangible property (i.e. fixed assets/property,
plant, and equipment) used as an integral part cf the business operations as
defined by the Internal Revenue Code.
   SECTION 1250 PROPERTY. Any real property that is or has been depreciable but
not subject to recapture under Section 1245 as defined by the Internal Revenue
Code. Examples include buildings and their structural components and tangible
real property.
   TAXABLE YEAR. Calendar year or the fiscal year on the basis of which the net
profits are to be computed under this chapter and in the case a return for a
fractional part of a year, the period for which such return is required to be
made. Assume calendar year for all individuals.
   TAXPAYER.  Any person, as defined, required filing a return or paying tax
pursuant to this chapter. The singular shall include the plural and the
masculine shall include the feminine and the neuter.
(Ord. 3251. Passed 11-11-03.)
§ 94.02 INCOME TAX LEVY.
   To provide funds for the purpose of general municipal operations, there is
levied a tax at the rate of two and one-fourth percent (2.25%), except for
those under the minimum age, upon the following:
(Ord. 3523. Passed 1-22-13.)
   (A)   All qualified wages, sick and vacation pay, commissions, and other
compensation earned, received, accrued, rental income, or in any other taxable
income set apart unto residents of the City of West Carrollton.
(Ord. 3275. Approved by the voters 11-2-04.)
      (1)   On all income derived anywhere by residents or derived in West
Carrollton by non-residents from prizes, awards, gaming, wagering, lotteries,
or games of chance as permitted by Ohio law including, but not limited to,
reporting on IRS form W-2G, form 5754 and/or other form required by the IRS for
reporting such income.
(Ord. 3466. Passed 12-14-10.)
   (B)   All qualified wages, sick and vacation pay, commissions, rental income
and other compensation earned, received, accrued, or in any other way set apart
unto non-residents for work done or services rendered in the City of West
Carrollton.
   (C)   (1)   On all of the taxable net profits of resident associations,
unincorporated businesses, professions, or other entities, derived from sales
made, work done, services performed/rendered, business conducted, or other
activities performed. The tax levied on these associations or other business
entities are primarily liable for the tax with the owners/officers being
secondarily liable. Credit will be given for appropriate municipal income tax
paid to other cities allowable by this chapter for work performed outside the
City of West Carrollton limits.
      (2)   On a resident partner/owner's share of the taxable net profits
earned from a business entity or association. Credit will be given for
allowable municipal income tax paid to other cities for work performed outside
the City of West Carrollton limits.
   (D)   (1)   On the portion attributable to the City of West Carrollton of
the net profits of all non-resident associations, unincorporated businesses,
professions, or other entities, derived from sales made, work done, services
performed/rendered, business conducted, or other activities performed in West
Carrollton whether or not such an association or other business entity has an
office or place of business in the City of West Carrollton. The tax levied on
these associations or other business entities are primarily liable for the tax
with the owners/officers being secondarily liable.
      (2)   On a non-resident partner/owner's share of the net profits earned
in the City of West Carrollton from a business entity or association.
   (E)   On the payments made to current and former employees by an employer as
accrued benefits and/or vacation wages for services performed in West
Carrollton; on the payments made to current or former employees by an employer
under a wage continuation plan during periods of disability or sickness earned
for service performed in West Carrollton.
   (F)   12-Day Occasional Entry Rule: the City of West Carrollton shall not
tax the compensation of an individual if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The individual does not reside in the City of West Carrollton;
      (2)   The compensation is paid for personal services performed by the
individual in the City of West Carrollton on twelve (12) or fewer days during
the calendar year;
      (3)   In the case of an individual who is an employee, the principal
place of business of the individual's employer is located outside the City of
West Carrollton and the individual pays tax on compensation described in this
chapter to the taxing entity the employer's principal place of business is
located in, and no portion of the tax is refunded to the individual.
      (4)   The individual is not a professional entertainer or professional
athlete, the promoter of a professional entertainment/entertainer or sports
event, or an employee of such a promoter, all as may be reasonably defined by
the City of West Carrollton.
(Ord. 3275. Approved by the voters 11-2-04.)
§ 94.03 INCOME TAX RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
    (A)   Each person engaged in business or whose qualified wages,
commissions, and/or other compensation are subject to the income tax imposed by
this chapter, shall make and file, on or before April 15th of the following
year in each year they are subject to City income tax, a return with the City
of West Carrollton Income Tax Department, whether or not tax is due. A taxpayer
on a fiscal year accounting basis for Federal income tax purposes shall,
beginning with the first fiscal year in which any part of such year falls
within the effective period of this chapter, file a return on or before the
fifteenth day of the fourth (4) month after the close of fiscal year-end or
period.
   (B)   All City of West Carrollton residents at the minimum age or older, are
required to file a City of West Carrollton income tax return. This mandatory
filing requirement is in effect whether or not income tax is due. The Tax
Administrator may enforce a minimum age filing requirement.
   (C)   A husband and wife, in any taxable year, may elect to file separate or
joint returns.
   (D)   The taxpayer making a return shall, at the time of filing thereof, pay
to the City of West Carrollton Income Tax Department, the amount of taxes due
thereon, provided, however, that where any portion of the tax due shall have
been deducted at the source pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, or
where any portion of said tax shall have been paid by the taxpayer pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter, or where an income tax has been properly paid
to another municipality, credit for the amount so paid in accordance with this
chapter hereof, shall be deducted from the amount shown to be due and only the
balance, if any, shall be due and payable at the time of filing said return.
The Tax Administrator may determine a reasonable minimum balance due limit. If
the balance due is at or below this limit, payment may not be required.
   (E)   The Finance Director or his delegate may provide by regulation to
accept that the return of an employer(s) showing the correct tax deducted by
said employer(s) from qualified wages, commissions, or other compensation of
and paid by the employer(s) to the City of West Carrollton Income Tax
Department shall be accepted as the return required of any employee whose sole
income, subject to the tax under this chapter, is such qualified wages,
commissions, or other compensation.
   (F)   A taxpayer who has overpaid the amount of tax to which the City is
entitled under the provisions of this chapter may have the overpayment applied
against any subsequent liability hereunder, or at his election indicated on the
return, such overpayment or part hereof, shall be refunded provided that no
additional unpaid liability exists, and that such refund is in compliance with
this chapter, and is within three years after tax for that year was initially
due. The Tax Administrator may determine a reasonable minimum refund due limit.
If the balance due is at or below this limit, the refund will not be required.
   (G)   The net loss from an unincorporated business activity (example:
Federal schedule C) may not be used to offset qualified wages, commissions, or
other compensation. However, if a taxpayer is engaged in two or more taxable
business activities to be included in the same return, the net loss of one
unincorporated business activity (except any portion of a loss that is
separately reportable for municipal tax purposes to another similar municipal
taxing entity) may be used to offset the profits of another for purposes of
arriving at overall net profits. A profit or loss from any entity required by
this chapter to file as a separate entity cannot be offset in any manner. A net
operating loss sustained in any taxable year may not be carried backward to any
other taxable year but may be carried forward for three (3) years.
   (H)   The City of West Carrollton shall accept a generic form of any return,
report, or document required to be filed if the generic form once completed and
filed, contains all of the information required to be submitted with the City
of West Carrollton's prescribed returns, reports or documents, and, if the
taxpayer or return preparer filing the generic form otherwise complies with the
rules or ordinances of the City of West Carrollton governing the filing of
returns, reports or documents.
(Ord. 3251. Passed 11-11-03.)
§ 94.04 COLLECTION OF TAX AT THE SOURCE.
   (A)   Each resident employer and/or employers doing business within the City
who employs one or more persons on a qualified wage, commission, or other
compensation basis, shall deduct at the time of payment of such qualified wage,
commission, or other compensation, the income tax at the rate of two and one-
fourth percent (2.25%) on the gross qualified wages, commissions, or other
compensation due by the employer to such employee and shall, following the
schedules as specified in this section, make a return showing the amount of
taxes so deducted and a record of payments showing that all taxes deducted
during the periods required have been paid to the City in accordance with the
payment schedule prescribed by this chapter. (Ord. 3523. Passed 1-22-13.)
   (B)   Such employer shall be liable for the payment of the tax required to
be deducted and withheld, whether or not such taxes have in fact been withheld.
Every employer or officer(s) of a business entity is deemed to be a trustee for
this Municipality in collecting and holding the tax required under this chapter
to be withheld. The funds so collected by such withholding are deemed to be
trust funds. The officer(s) and/or employee(s) having control, supervision,
and/or charged with the responsibility of filing the return and making payment
is personally liable for failure to file the return or pay the tax due as
required by this chapter. The officer(s) or employee(s) shall be personally
liable for the tax he failed to return or pay as well as any related interest
and penalties. The dissolution of a business entity does not discharge an
officer's or employee's liability for failure of the business entity to pay the
tax due.
   (C)   Employers shall pay to the City all income tax withheld or required to
be deducted and withheld on a quarterly or monthly basis. If the employers City
of West Carrollton withholding tax due is consistently averaging $500 or more
per month or over $6,000 for the year, they must file on a monthly basis. The
monthly withholding return (W-1) is due on or before the fifteenth day of each
following month. All other employers may elect to file quarterly. The quarterly
withholding tax due must be paid on or before the end of the month following
the reporting period (i.e. due dates of April 30, July 31, October 31, and
January 31) with the proper withholding tax return (W-1).
   (D)   Each employer, on or before the corresponding IRS due date, shall file
with the Income Tax Department of the City of West Carrollton an information
return, City of West Carrollton Reconciliation of Tax Withheld (W-3), for each
employee from whom income tax has been or should have been withheld showing the
name, address and social security number of the employee, the total amount of
qualified wages, commissions, tips and other compensation paid the employee
during the year, and the amount of municipal income tax withheld from each
employee (Form W-2). In lieu of submitting form W-2's, an alternative method of
reporting must be approved by the Finance Director or his delegate. The Finance
Director or his delegate may, by regulation, provide for the use of electronic
media by employers for reporting of annual wage and tax data.
   (E)   In addition to the above wage reporting requirements, any person who
compensates an individual, contractor or subcontractor shall report such
payment. The information required includes the name, address and social
security number (or federal identification number for business entities), and
amount of compensation. Federal form 1099 may be submitted in lieu of such
listing. The information must be filed annually with the Income Tax Department
of the City of West Carrollton on or before the corresponding IRS due date for
form 1099.
   (F)   Failure to file any required documentation in a timely manner as
prescribed by this section will be subject to late filing penalty assessment as
prescribed in this chapter.
(Ord. 3275. Approved by the voters 11-2-04.)
§ 94.05 EXEMPTIONS/DEDUCTIONS.
   Exemptions.
   (A)   Military pay or allowance of active members of the Armed Forces of the
United States.
   (B)   The income of religious, fraternal, charitable, scientific, literary,
non- profit, educational institutions, and/or other organization specified in
the Ohio Revised Code, Section 718.01, to the extent that such income is
derived from tax exempt real estate, tax-exempt tangible or intangible property
or tax exempt activities.
   (C)   Personal earnings of any natural person under the minimum age filing
requirement (Section
94.03(B)), if applicable. The entire year of taxable income becomes taxable if
the person exceeds that minimum age by the end of the year (no proration).
   (D)   Any natural person 65 or older by the end of the taxable year is
entitled to an exemption to be determined by the Tax Administrator.
   (E)   Social Security benefits, unemployment insurance benefits, welfare
benefits, and qualified pensions paid as a result of retirements.
   (F)   Most interest, dividends, and royalties. (Ord. 3251. Passed 11-11-03.)
   (G)   Poor relief, food stamps, unemployment compensation, aid to dependent
children, child support, alimony, capital gains and losses from investment
activity (Federal schedule D), gains or losses from Section 1231 property not
defined as a capital asset, Worker’s Compensation, third-party sick and
disability pay, jury duty if turned over to employer, housing allowances for
clergy to the extent that the allowance is used to rent or provide a home.
(Ord. 3466. Passed 12-14-10.)
   (H)   Qualified wages, commissions and other compensation and net profits,
the taxation of which is prohibited by the United States Constitution, the
Constitution of the State of Ohio, any act of Congress, or any act of the Ohio
General Assembly limiting the City of West Carrollton to impose income taxes on
income.
   (I)   Compensation attributable to a plan or program described in section
125 of the Internal Revenue Code.
   Deductions
   (J)   Form 2106 Employee Business Expense: A person who receives qualified
wages or compensation and who pays business expenses without reimbursement from
his employer or association, shall be entitled to a deduction to the same
extent that such expenses are allowable under The Federal Income Tax Code
without any adjusted gross income limitations. However the deduction will only
be permitted to the extent the Finance Director deems it ordinary, necessary,
and it was incurred while earning the income and directly related to earning
the income subject to the tax levied by this chapter.
   (K)   Losses incurred from business activities such as self-employment
(Federal schedule C), rental (schedule E), and partnership interests (schedule
E) losses may be carried forward for three (3) years to offset similar business
activity income. Such losses may not be used to offset employee compensation
such as qualified wages. If part or all of the business loss was generated
outside the City of West Carrollton limits, that portion of the loss must be
allocated to other taxing districts appropriately.
   (L)   Part-year residents can deduct the portion of their income earned
while they did not live in the City of West Carrollton. Other deductions must
be allocated on the same basis. A person will be considered a resident if they
live in West Carrollton a total of 30 days or more.
(Ord. 3251. Passed 11-11-03.)
§ 94.06 CONSOLIDATED RETURNS.
   (A)   Filing of consolidated returns may be permitted, required or denied in
accordance with the rules and regulations prescribed by the Finance Director or
his delegate. The returns must be a fair representation of business activity in
the City. A method of reporting should not be chosen with the intent to
minimize or decrease the entity’s tax liability. If the Tax Administrator
determines this intent, the consolidated return may be denied.
   (B)   In the case of a corporation that carries on transactions with its
stockholders or with other corporations related by stock ownership,
interlocking directorates, or some other method, or in case any person operates
a division, branch, factory, office, laboratory or other activity within the
City constituting a portion only of its total business, the Finance Director or
his delegate may require such additional information as he may deem necessary
to ascertain whether net profits are properly allocated to the City. If the
Finance Director or his delegate finds taxable income not being properly
allocated to the City by reasons such as transactions with stockholders or with
other corporations related by stock ownership, interlocking directorates, or
transactions with such division, branch, factory, office, laboratory or
activity or by some other method, he shall make such allocation as he deems
appropriate to produce a fair and proper allocation of net profits to the City.
(Ord. 3251. Passed 11-11-03.)
§ 94.07 DECLARATIONS.
   (A)   Every person who anticipates any taxable income which is not subject
to this chapteror who engages in any business, profession, enterprise, or other
activity subject to the tax imposed by this chapter hereof, shall file a
declaration setting forth such business activity together with the estimated
tax due thereon.
   (B)   Such declaration shall be filed on or before April 15th of each year,
or within the 15th day of the fourth (4th) month after the taxpayer first
becomes subject to the tax.
   Taxpayers who report on a fiscal year basis shall file a declaration within
the 15th day of the fourth month after the beginning of each fiscal year or
period.
   (C)   (1)   Such declaration shall be filed on a form furnished or
obtainable from the Income Tax Department. Credit shall be taken for West
Carrollton City Tax withheld, if any, from any portion of such income. In
addition, credit may be taken for tax paid or to be withheld and remitted to
other taxing municipalities in accordance with this chapter.
      (2)   The original declaration (or any subsequent amendment thereof) may
be increased or decreased on or before any subsequent quarterly payment date as
provided herein. A declaration may be amended at any time, provided, however,
that the unpaid balance due shall be paid in equal installments on or before
the remaining payment dates.
   (D)   (1)   Such declaration of estimated tax to be paid the City shall be
accompanied by a payment of at least one-fourth of the estimated annual tax,
and at least an equal amount to be paid on or before the 15th day of the fourth
month and the last day of the 7th, 10th, and 13th months after the beginning of
the year. For a calendar-year taxpayer, the due dates are as follows: April 15,
July 31, October 31, and January 31 of the following year.
      (2)   On or before the 15th day of the fourth month of the calendar year
or fiscal year following that for which such declaration or amended declaration
should be filed, an annual return shall be filed and any balance which may be
due the City shall be paid therewith in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
      (3)   The final installment of estimated tax quarterly payments need not
be made if the taxpayer files his final return and pays the balance of tax due
thereon within forty-five (45) days of the end of his chapter- complying
taxable year.
   (E)   A declaration of estimated tax shall not be considered filed in good
faith if less than ninety percent (90%) of the total correct tax is not paid by
the final quarter declaration due date. The remaining tax due the day after the
final quarter due date is subject to a ten percent (10%) interest charge. An
exception will be made if one hundred percent (100%) or more of the prior year
tax liability, after tax withheld is deducted, has been paid in equal quarterly
installments in the current year.
   (F)   Taxpayers that have a total correct tax due of less than two hundred
dollars ($200) before any estimated tax payments are made are not required to
file a declaration because they are exempt from declaration interest. (Ord.
3251. Passed 11-11-03.)
§ 94.08 DUTY TO RETAIN RECORDS.
   Every taxpayer shall retain all records necessary to compute tax liability
for a period not less than five (5) years from the date the return is filed, or
the taxes required to be withheld are paid.
(Ord. 3251. Passed 11-11-03.)
§ 94.09 CREDIT FOR TAX PAID TO OTHER MUNICIPALITIES.
   (A)   Every individual taxpayer who resides in the City but who received net
profits, qualified wages, commissions or other compensation for work done or
services performed or rendered outside of the City, if he has paid a municipal
income tax or Joint Economic Development District tax based on income, on such
net profits, qualified wages, commissions or other compensation in another
municipality, shall be allowed a credit for the amount so paid by him or in his
behalf in such Municipality. The credit shall not exceed the tax assessed by
this chapter on such income earned in such other municipality or municipalities
where such tax is paid.
   (B)   Not withstanding the provisions contained in this chapter, or any
other provisions inconsistent herewith, a claim for refund or credit under this
section shall be made in such manner as the Finance Director or his delegate
may, by regulation, provide.
(Ord. 3251. Passed 11-11-03.)
§ 94.10 APPORTIONMENT OF TAXABLE INCOME.
   If the books and records of a taxpayer conducting a business or profession
both within and without the boundaries of the City of West Carrollton shall
disclose with reasonable accuracy what portion of its net profit is
attributable to that part of the business or profession conducted within the
boundaries of the City of West Carrollton, then only such portion shall be
considered as having a taxable situs in the City of West Carrollton for
purposes of municipal income taxation. In the absence of such records, net
profit from a business or profession conducted both within and without the
boundaries of the City of West Carrollton shall be considered as having a
taxable situs in the City of West Carrollton for purposes of municipal income
taxation in the same proportion as the average ratio of:
   (A)   (1)   The average original cost of the real and tangible personal
property owned or used by the taxpayer in the taxable period to the average
original cost of all of the real and tangible personal property owned or used
by the taxpayer in the business or profession during the same period, wherever
situated.
      (2)   As used in the preceding paragraph, real property shall include
property rented or leased by the taxpayer and the value of such property shall
be determined by multiplying the annual rental therein by eight.
   (B)   (1)   Wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during the taxable
period to persons employed in the business or profession for services performed
in the City of West Carrollton to wages, salaries, and other compensation paid
during the same period to persons employed in the business or profession
wherever their services are performed.
      (2)   As used in the preceding paragraph, persons employed shall not be
construed to mean any subcontractor or independent contractor.
   (C)   Gross receipts of the business or profession from sales made and
services performed during the taxable period in the City of West Carrollton to
gross receipts of the business or profession during the same period from sales
and services, wherever made or performed. In the event the foregoing allocation
formula does not produce an equitable result, the Finance Director or his
delegate may under uniform regulations, substitute another basis so as to
produce such result. Changing to a basis to minimize or manipulate taxable
income should not be a reason for making the change. Once a basis is chosen,
this basis should be consistently used unless the Finance Director approves a
change.
   As used in this chapter, "sales made in the City," means:
      (1)   All sales of tangible personal property which is delivered within
the City regardless of where title passes if shipped from a stock of goods
within the City;
      (2)   All sales of tangible personal property which is delivered within
the City regardless of where title passes even though transported from a point
outside the City if the taxpayer is regularly engaged through his own employees
in the solicitation or promotion of sales within the City and the sales result
from such solicitation or promotion;
      (3)   All sales of tangible personal property which is shipped from a
place within City to purchasers outside the City regardless of where title
passes if the taxpayer is not, through his own employees, regularly engaged in
the solicitation or promotion of sales at the place where delivery is made.
      (4)   For West Carrollton resident business or business entities, if
sales are made outside the City but no municipal income was paid to another
municipality for that activity, then that corresponding taxable income becomes
taxable to the City of West Carrollton.
      (5)   If the sales department is physically located in the City of West
Carrollton limits, and substantially all the sales department's activity occurs
in West Carrollton, those sales shall be considered in West Carrollton for
allocation purposes regardless of where the purchaser is located or the
product/service is eventually shipped/rendered.
      (6)   If one or more of the apportionment factors significantly distorts
the percentage of taxable income allocated to West Carrollton, that factor(s)
should be removed from the calculation. The remaining factors will then be
divided by the number of factors used. Even one factor used is acceptable if
the percentage fairly represents the business activity in West Carrollton.
   (D)   Non-resident individual taxpayers working in and out of the City of
West Carrollton limits will calculate their tax liability based on the formula
of the total number of days worked in the City divided by the total number of
days worked for the year, excluding vacation, holiday, and sick days during the
year. The resulting percentage applies to the total annual income from wages.
Where no record can be substantiated for the total number of days worked, two
hundred and sixty (260) days will be used. Employer verification/certification
of basis for refunding the tax is required.
(Ord. 3251. Passed 11-11-03.)
§ 94.11 LOSS CARRY-FORWARD.
   (A)   The portion of net operating loss, based on income taxable under this
chapter, sustained in any taxable year allocable to the City may be applied
against the portion of the profit of succeeding years allocable to the City
until fully utilized but, in no event, for more than three (3) taxable years.
No portion of a net operating loss shall be carried back against net profits of
any prior year. On an individual return, such losses may not be used to offset
employee compensation such as qualified wages.
   (B)   In the event taxable income is properly allocated both within and
outside the City, the portion of net operating loss sustained shall be
allocated to the City in the same manner as provided in this chapter for
allocating net profits to the City as stated in this chapter. The portion of
net operating loss to be carried forward shall be determined in the year the
net operating loss is sustained, on the basis of the allocation factors
applicable to that year. The same method of accounting and allocation must be
used in the year to which an operating loss is carried as was used in the year
in which the operating loss was sustained.
   (C)   The net operating loss of a business which loses its identity through
a merger, consolidation, etc. shall not be allowed as a carry-forward loss
deduction to the surviving business entity.
(Ord. 3251. Passed 11-11-03.)
§ 94.12 REFUNDS; OVERPAYMENTS.
   (A)   A taxpayer who has overpaid the amount of tax to which the City of
West Carrollton is entitled under the provisions of this chapter may have the
overpayment applied against any subsequent liability hereunder, or at the
taxpayer's election indicated on the return, such overpayment, or part thereof,
shall be refunded, if above the minimum refund due limit, provided that no
additional unpaid liability exists, all proper supporting documentation was
filed, and the refund is properly requested within three years after that
year's tax return was initially due before extensions.
   (B)   The Tax Administrator may determine a reasonable minimum refund due
limit. If the balance due is at or below this limit, the refund will not be
required.
   (C)   Refunds may be held for or applied against prior year outstanding tax
balances.
   (D)   All requests for refund of tax overpaid must be made in writing,
unless otherwise accepted/approved by the Finance Director, by one of the
following methods:
      (1)   Indicating a refund for tax overpaid on the space indicated on the
West Carrollton income tax return with proper supporting documentation, or
      (2)   Written correspondence in the form of a refund request, with all
supporting documentation and/or information attached.
   (E)   When a taxpayer's return indicates that a refund is due and a refund
is not issued within a reasonable amount of time after the Income Tax
Department has received proper verification and substantiation as to the
validity of the refund claim, interest shall be paid at the rate determined by
the Tax Administrator. A return, which indicates a claim for refund, is not
deemed to be filed until the Income Tax Department receives all proper
verification and substantiation validating the refund claim.
(Ord. 3251. Passed 11-11-03.)
§ 94.13 EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The Finance Director or his delegate shall have the authority to
extend the time for filing of the annual return of the taxpayer for a period
not to exceed the last day of the month following the month of the Internal
Revenue Service extension due date for a Federal Income Tax Return. Upon
written request for extension and/or a copy of the Federal extension, such
extension will be considered, providing that notification, documentation, and
information are included, accompanied by a tentative return and payment of tax
shown to be due therein by the date the return is normally due. No penalty
shall be assessed in those cases in which the return is filed and the final tax
paid within the period as extended. Any portion of tax unpaid after the
original due date of the return, but paid within the period as extended, will
be subject to interest charges as prescribed by this chapter. If an extension
request is denied, the subsequent filing of the return and payment of tax due
shall be subject to the applicable penalty and interest charges as prescribed
by this chapter.
   (B)   The City of West Carrollton may deny a taxpayers request for extension
if the taxpayer:
      (1)   Fails to timely file the request;
      (2)   Fails to file a copy of the federal extension request (if
applicable);
      (3)   Owes the City of West Carrollton any delinquent income tax,
penalty, interest, assessment or other charge for the late payment of
nonpayment of income tax;
      (4)   Has failed to file any required income tax return, report, or other
related document for a prior tax period.
(Ord. 3251. Passed 11-11-03.)
§ 94.14 AMENDING AN INCOME TAX RETURN.
   (A)   An amended return shall be filed in order to report additional income
and pay any additional tax due, or claim a refund if overpaid, subject to
requirements and/or limitations contained in this chapter. A taxpayer may not
change the method of accounting or method of apportionment of taxable income
after the due date for filing the original return if the original methods were
consistent and correct.
   (B)   Within three (3) months from the final determination of any federal
tax liability affecting a taxpayer's City tax liability, such taxpayer shall
make and file an amended City return showing income subject to City tax based
upon such final determination of Federal tax liability, and pay any additional
tax shown due therein, or make claim for refund of overpayment, according to
regulations and/or limitations as set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 3251. Passed 11-11-03.)
§ 94.15 FAILURE TO FILE/ESTIMATING RETURNS.
   If a taxpayer fails to properly file an income tax return, and the Finance
Director has made a reasonable attempt to contact and inform the taxpayer of
the failure to file, the Finance Director can estimate the income tax return
based on prior year activity and/or other method the Finance Director deems
reasonable. If the taxpayer then files a return with the actual data within a
reasonable amount of time, the actual return would then take precedence. If the
taxpayer does not respond by filing an actual return within a reasonable amount
of time, the estimated figures will become binding. The City of West Carrollton
can pursue taxpayers who have not properly filed their City income tax returns
or properly provided sufficient documentation to the City of West Carrollton
Tax Department why no return was required or six (6) years after the return was
originally due.
(Ord. 3251. Passed 11-11-03.)
§ 94.16 COLLECTION OF UNPAID TAXES.
   All taxes imposed by this chapter shall be collectible, together with any
interest, fees, and penalties thereon, by suit, as other debts of like amounts
are recoverable. All additional assessments shall be made and all criminal and
civil actions to recover municipal income taxes, and the associated penalties,
interest, and fees shall be brought within three years after the tax was due,
the return was filed, the bankruptcy was discharged, or the City of West
Carrollton payment agreement expected completion date, whichever is later.
(Ord. 3251. Passed 11-11-03.)
§ 94.17 PENALTIES, INTEREST, AND FEES.
   (A)   (1)   All taxes imposed by this chapter and remaining unpaid after
they become due shall bear interest, in addition to the unpaid tax, at the rate
to be determined by the Tax Administrator.
      (2)   Declaration interest will be charged at a rate of ten percent
(10%). A declaration of estimated tax shall not be considered filed in good
faith if it is less than ninety percent (90%) of the total correct tax is not
paid by the final quarter declaration due date. The remaining tax due the day
after the final quarter due date is subject to a ten percent (10%) interest
charge. An exception will be made if one hundred percent (100%) or more of the
prior year liability has been paid in equal quarterly installments in the
current year.
   (B)   In addition to the interest as provided in subsection (A)(1) hereof,
penalties based on the unpaid tax are hereby imposed as follows:
      (1)   For failure to pay taxes cue, other than taxes withheld, a penalty
of one and one half percent (1.5%) per month or ten percent (10%) of the unpaid
tax, whichever is greater, but not to exceed fifty percent (50%) of the initial
tax due.
      (2)   For failure to remit proper taxes withheld from employees, the
corresponding employer is subject to a penalty of three percent (3%) per month
or ten percent (10%) of the unpaid tax, whichever is greater, but not to exceed
fifty percent (50%) of the initial tax due.
   (C)   (1)   For failure to file a tax return when due as required by this
chapter, a reasonable penalty to be determined by the Tax Administrator shall
be assessed per return.
      (2)   Filings are deemed to be made timely postmarked by the due date.
   (D)   Except in the case of fraud and excluding the late fee discussed in
the above subsections (A)(2) and (C), the total penalty can't exceed fifty
percent (50%) of the initial delinquent unpaid tax balance.
   (E)   A penalty shall not be charged on any additional City of West
Carrollton income tax assessment made by the Income Tax Department , when a
return has been filed in good faith and the tax paid thereon within the time
prescribed by this chapter, and provided further that in the absence of fraud,
neither penalty nor interest shall be assessed on any additional tax assessment
resulting from a Federal Audit providing an amended return is filed and the
additional tax is paid within three months after the final determination of the
Federal Tax Liability.
   (F)   A fee deemed reasonable by the Finance Director will be charged for
each check returned to the City of West Carrollton marked as non- sufficient
funds or unpaid.
(Ord. 3251. Passed 11-11-03.)
§ 94.18 CRIMINAL PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person who shall:
      (1)   Fail, neglect, or refuse to make any return or declaration required
by this chapter; or
      (2)   Make any substantially incomplete, false, or fraudulent return; or
      (3)   Fail, neglect, or refuse to pay the tax, penalties, or interest
imposed by this chapter; or
      (4)   Fail, neglect, or refuse to withhold the tax from his employees or
remit such withholdings to the City of West Carrollton; or
      (5)   Refuse to permit the Finance Director or his delegate or any duly
authorized agent or employee to examine his books, records, papers, State, and
Federal income tax returns relating to the taxable income of a taxpayer; or
      (6)   Refuse to disclose to the Income Tax Department any information
with respect to the taxable income of a taxpayer; or
      (7)   Fail to comply with the provisions of this chapter or subpoena of
the Income Tax Department; or
      (8)   Fail, as an individual charged with the responsibility to withhold
and remit from the wage of employees the City of West Carrollton income tax in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter; or
      (9)   Attempt to do anything whatever to avoid the payment of the whole
or any part of the tax, penalties, interest, or fees imposed by this chapter.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provisions set forth above shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor in the first degree and may be assessed such penalties, including
fines and/or imprisonment as the same are set forth in the Ohio Revised Code.
   (C)   All prosecutions under this section shall be commenced within the time
specified in Section 718.12 of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (D)   The failure of any employer, taxpayer, or person to have knowledge of
this chapter or to receive or procure a return, declaration, or other required
form shall not excuse such person from making any information return, return,
or declaration, from filing such form, or from paying the tax.
(Ord. 3251. Passed 11-11-03.)
§ 94.19 ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The funds collected under the provisions of this chapter shall be
placed in a fund to be known as the Income Tax Receipts Fund and shall be
allocated in such a manner as prescribed by the City Council.
   (B)   However, of the 2.25% City Income Tax, monies received from .50% City
Income Tax is designated to the Capital Improvement Program Fund (CIP) and
shall be further allocated to various other funds by the City Council through
the annual appropriation ordinance for capital improvements, related debt
service and economic development purposes and the remaining monies received
from 1.75% City Income Tax are designated to the General Fund. (Ord. 3602.
Passed 1-24-17.)
§ 94.20 BOARD OF APPEAL.
   (A)   A Board of Appeal, consisting of a Chairman and two other individuals,
each to be selected by Council, is hereby created. A majority of members of the
Board shall constitute a quorum. The Board of Appeal shall adopt its own
procedural rules and shall keep a record of its transactions. Such records are
not public records available for inspection under Section 149.43 of the Ohio
Revised Code. Hearings requested by a taxpayer before a Board of Appeal created
pursuant to this section are not meetings of a public body subject to Section
121.22 of the Ohio Revised Code. Therefore any hearing by the Board of Appeal
may be conducted privately with the tax confidentiality provisions of this
chapter applying to such matters.
   (B)   Any person dissatisfied with any ruling or decision of the Finance
Director, which is made under the authority conferred by this chapter, may
appeal therefrom to the Board of Appeal within thirty (30) days from the
announcement of the ruling or decision by the Finance Director, or the date the
tax liability is paid in full, whichever is later, the Board of Appeal shall,
on hearing, have, jurisdiction to affirm, reverse, or modify any such ruling or
decision, or any part thereof pertaining to penalty and interest only. The
Board shall schedule a hearing within forty-five (45) days after receiving the
appeal, unless the taxpayer waives the hearing. The Board shall issue a
decision on the appeal within Ninety (90) days after the Board's final hearing
on the appeal, and send notice of its decision by ordinary mail to the
petitioner within fifteen (15) days after issuing the decision.
   (C)   The imposition of penalty and interest as prescribed in the Codified
Ordinances of the City of West Carrollton is not the sole basis for an appeal.
Interpretations of the legality of any provision of this chapter by the City
Law Director are not rulings or decisions of the Finance Director and are not
subject to appeal to the Board of Review. Any such legal interpretations should
be challenged through normal court proceedings.
(Ord. 3251. Passed 11-11-03.)
§ 94.21 BOARD OF REVIEW.
   (A)   A Board of Review consisting of the City Manager, the Finance
Director, or their respective designees, and a third individual to be appointed
by the membership, is hereby created. A majority of the members shall
constitute a quorum. The Board of Review shall adopt its own procedural rules
and shall keep a record of its transactions. Any hearing by the Board of Review
may be conducted privately with the tax confidentiality provisions of this
chapter applying to such matters.
   (B)   The Board of Review may adopt, promulgate, and enforce rules and
regulations relating to any matter or thing pertaining to the administration,
operation, and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 3251.
Passed 11-11-03.)
§ 94.22 REPORTS BY LANDLORDS, CONDOMINIUM ASSOCIATES AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   Every owner of two (2) or more rental units and every owner or
operator of a mobile home park is hereby directed and required to furnish to
the Finance Director or his delegate a yearly roster of the names and addresses
of persons residing in the rental units or mobile home park. The listing must
include any changes during the year. The yearly roster shall be filed in the
following year on or before January 31st. Larger entities may be required to
file or a quarterly or semi-annually basis at the Finance Director's
discretion.
   (B)   Every condominium association, owners' organizations of condominium
units, or other owners’/residents’ cooperative dwelling affiliations is hereby
required to furnish a yearly roster of the names and addresses of their members
that own, rent, or have an interest in properties located in the City of West
Carrollton to the Finance Director or his delegate. This roster must include
any changes during the year such as new owners or forwarding addresses. The
yearly roster shall be filed in the following year on or before January 31st.
Larger entities may be required to file on a quarterly or semi- annually basis
at the Finance Director's discretion.
(Ord. 3251. Passed 11-11-03.)
§ 94.23 DUTIES OF THE FINANCE DIRECTOR.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Finance Director to collect and receive
the tax levied by this chapter in the manner prescribed by this chapter, and it
shall also be his duty to keep an accurate record showing the payment received
by him from each taxpayer and the date of the payment.
   (B)   (1)   The Finance Director or his delegate is hereby charged with the
administration and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter and they are
hereby authorized to enforce the rules and regulations relating to any matter
or thing pertaining to the administration and enforcement of the provisions of
this chapter, including provisions for the re- examination and correction of
returns and payments.
      (2)   In any case where a taxpayer has failed, neglected or refused to
file a return or has failed, neglected or refused to pay the tax due on a
return or has filed a return which does not show the proper amount of tax due,
the Finance Director or his delegate may determine the amount of tax appearing
to be due the City from the taxpayer based on any information in his possession
and shall send to such taxpayer a written statement showing the amount of tax
so determined together with interest and penalties thereon, if any.
   (C)   The Finance Director or his delegate is authorized to arrange for the
payment of unpaid taxes, fees, interest and penalties on a schedule of
installment payments when the taxpayer has approved to the Finance Director or
his delegate that, due to certain hardship conditions he is unable to pay the
full amount of tax due. Such authorization shall not be granted until proper
returns are filed by the taxpayer for all amounts owed by him under this
chapter. However, all additional assessments shall be made and all criminal and
civil actions to recover municipal income taxes, and the associated penalties,
interest, and fees shall be brought within three years after the tax was due,
the return was filed, the bankruptcy was discharged, or the City of West
Carrollton payment agreement expected completion date, whichever is later.
(Ord. 3251. Passed 11-11-03.)
§ 94.24 INVESTIGATIVE POWERS OF THE FINANCE DIRECTOR.
   (A)   (1)   The Finance Director or his delegate or any authorized employee
is hereby authorized to examine the books, papers, records, and Federal Income
Tax Returns of any employer or of any taxpayer or person subject to, or who the
Finance Director or his delegate believes is subject to the provisions of this
chapter, for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of any return made, or, if
any return was made to ascertain the tax due under this chapter. Every such
employer, supposed employer, taxpayer, or supposed taxpayer is hereby directed
and required to furnish upon written request by the Finance Director or his
delegate, or his duly authorized agent or employee, the means, facilities and
opportunity for making such examinations and investigations as are hereby
authorized.
      (2)   The Finance Director or his delegate is hereby authorized to order
any person presumed to have knowledge of the facts to appear before him and may
examine such person, under oath, concerning any income which was or would have
been returned for taxation or any transaction tending to effect such income,
and for this purpose may compel the production of books, papers, records, and
Federal Income Tax Returns and the attendance of all persons before him,
whether as parties or witnesses, whenever he believes such persons have
knowledge of such income or information pertinent to such inquiry.
   (B)   The Finance Director or his delegate or any authorized employee is
hereby authorized to institute procedures to determine the associations,
businesses, corporations, persons, employers, and employees subject to the
provisions of this chapter, and in connection therewith, to require that all
persons, as defined in this chapter shall provide in writing to the Finance
Director or his delegate such information as deemed necessary to provide for
the enforcement of this chapter. The refusal to provide information requested
by the Finance Director shall be deemed a violation of this chapter, punishable
as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 3251. Passed 11-11-03.)
§ 94.25 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   Any information gained as result of any returns, investigations,
hearings, or verifications required or authorized by this chapter shall be
confidential. No disclosure thereof shall be made except to Municipal, County,
State, or Federal taxing agencies, or, except for official purposes, or except
in accordance with proper judicial order. No person shall otherwise divulge
such information.
   (B)   Each disclosure shall constitute a separate offense. In addition any
City of West Carrollton employee who violates the provisions of this Section
relative to disclosure of confidential information shall be guilty of an
offense which may be punishable by immediate dismissal.
(Ord. 3251. Passed 11-11-03.)
§ 94.26 SAVING CLAUSE.
   This chapter shall not apply to any person, firm, or corporation or to any
property as to whom or which it is beyond the power of Council to impose the
tax herein provided for. Any sentence, clause, section, or part of this
chapter, or any tax against or exception granted any individual or any of the
several groups of persons, or forms of income specified herein is found to be
unconstitutional or illegal or invalid, such unconstitutionality, illegality,
or invalidity shall affect only such clause, sentence, section, or part of this
chapter and shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions,
sentences, clauses, sections or other parts of this chapter. It is hereby
declared to be the intention of Council of the City of West Carrollton that
this chapter would have been adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal, or
invalid sentence, part thereof not been included therein.
(Ord. 3251. Passed 11-11-03.)
§ 94.27 EFFECTIVE PERIOD.
   Any taxes levied by this chapter shall remain in full force and effect and
apply in all terms and conditions for tax events prior to January 1, 2019. The
tax provided for in this ordinance, (Ordinance 3602), shall be levied,
collected and paid with respect to the qualified wages, commissions, and other
compensation, and with respect to the net profits of businesses, professions,
and other activities, earned from the effective date of this ordinance, January
1, 2019, and shall apply to all taxes, filings, and assessments effective and
beginning with tax year 2019 for a continuing period of time.
(Ord. 3602. Passed 1-24-17.)
CHAPTER 94.5: INCOME TAX EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2016
94.5.01   Authority to levy tax; purposes of tax; rate.
94.5.011   Authority to levy tax.
94.5.012   Purposes of tax; rate.
94.5.013   Allocation of funds.
94.5.014   Statement of procedural history; state mandated changes to municipal
income tax.
94.5.02   Effective date.
94.5.03   Definitions.
94.5.04   Income subject to tax for individuals.
94.5.041   Determining municipal taxable income for individuals.
94.5.042   Domicile.
94.5.043   Exemption for member or employee of general assembly and certain
judges.
94.5.05   Collection at source.
94.5.051   Collection at source; withholding from qualifying wages.
94.5.052   Collection at source; occasional entrant.
94.5.053   Collection at source; casino and VLT.
94.5.06   Income subject to net profit tax.
94.5.061   Determining municipal taxable income for taxpayers who are not
individuals.
94.5.062   Net profit; income subject to net profit tax; alternative
apportionment.
94.5.063   Consolidated federal income tax return.
94.5.064   Tax credit for businesses that foster new jobs in Ohio.
94.5.065   Tax credits to foster job retention.
94.5.07   Declaration of estimated tax.
94.5.08   Credit for tax paid.
94.5.081   Credit for tax paid to another municipality.
94.5.082   Refundable credit for qualifying loss.
94.5.083   Credit for person working in joint economic development district or
zone.
94.5.084   Credit for tax beyond statute for obtaining refund.
94.5.09   Annual return.
94.5.091   Return and payment of tax.
94.5.092   Return and payment of tax; individual serving in combat zone.
94.5.093   Use of Ohio Business Gateway; types of filings authorized.
94.5.094   Extension of time to file.
94.5.095   Amended returns.
94.5.096   Refunds.
94.5.10   Penalty, interest, fees and charges.
94.5.11   Audit.
94.5.12   Rounding.
94.5.13   Authority and powers of the Tax Administrator.
94.5.131   Authority of Tax Administrator; administrative powers of the Tax
Administrator.
94.5.132   Authority of Tax Administrator; compromise of claim and payment over
time.
94.5.133   Authority of Tax Administrator; right to examine.
94.5.134   Authority of Tax Administrator; requiring identifying information.
94.5.14   Confidentiality.
94.5.15   Fraud.
94.5.16   Opinion of the Tax Administrator.
94.5.17   Assessment; appeal based on presumption of delivery.
94.5.18   Local Board of Tax Review; appeal to Local Board of Tax Review.
94.5.19   Actions to recover; statute of limitations.
94.5.20   Adoption of rules.
94.5.201   Landlord reporting.
94.5.97   Collection after termination of chapter.
94.5.98   Savings clause.
94.5.99   Violations; penalty.
94.6.01   Filing net profit taxes; election to be subject to provisions of
chapter.
94.6.02   Definitions.
94.6.03   Applicability; taxable situs; apportionment.
94.6.04   Information provided to tax administrators; confidentiality.
94.6.05   Filing of annual return; remittance; disposition of funds.
94.6.06   Electronic filing.
94.6.07   Consolidated returns.
94.6.08   Failure to pay tax.
94.6.09   Declaration of estimated taxes.
94.6.10   Additional penalties.
94.6.11   Assessments against taxpayer.
94.6.12   Refund applications.
94.6.13   Amended returns.
94.6.14   Examination of records and other documents and persons.
94.6.15   Credits.
94.6.16   Reckless violations; penalties.
§ 94.5.01 AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX; PURPOSES OF TAX; RATE.
§ 94.5.011 AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX.
   (A)   The tax on income and the withholding tax established by this Chapter
94.5 are authorized by Article XVIII, Section 3 of the Ohio Constitution. The
tax on income and the withholding tax established by this Chapter 94.5 are
deemed to be levied in accordance with, and to be consistent with, the
provisions and limitations of Ohio Revised Code 718 (ORC 718). This Chapter is
deemed to incorporate the provisions of ORC 718.
   (B)   The tax is an annual tax levied on the income of every person residing
in or earning or receiving income in the municipal corporation, and shall be
measured by municipal taxable income. The Municipality shall tax income at a
uniform rate. The tax is levied on Municipal Taxable Income, as defined herein.
(Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.012 PURPOSES OF TAX; RATE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide funds for general municipal
operations, maintenance of equipment, new equipment, extension, enlargement and
improvements.
   (B)   The voter-approve income tax rate is 2.25%. (Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-
15.)
§ 94.5.13 ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The funds collected under the provisions of this chapter shall be
placed in a fund to be known as the Income Tax Receipts Fund and shall be
allocated in such a manner as prescribed by ordinances adopted by the City
Council.
   (B)   However, of the 2.25% or other total City Income Tax, monies received
from the .50% City Income Tax are designated to the Capital Improvement Program
Fund (CIP) and shall be further allocated to various other funds by the City
Council through the annual appropriation ordinance for capital improvements,
related debt service and economic development purposes and the 1.75% City
Income Tax or remaining monies received are designated to the General Fund.
(Ord. 3602. Passed 1-24-17.)
§ 94.5.014 STATEMENT OF PROCEDURAL HISTORY; STATE MANDATED CHANGES TO MUNICIPAL
INCOME TAX.
   (A)   Significant and wide-ranging amendments to ORC 718 were enacted by Am
Sub HB 5, passed by the 130th General Assembly, and signed by Governor Kasich
on December 19, 2014, and H.B. 5 required municipal corporations to conform to
and adopt the provisions of ORC 718 in order to have the authority to impose,
enforce, administer and collect a municipal income tax.
   (B)   As mandated by H.B. 5, municipal income tax Ordinance 3572, effective
January 1, 2016, comprehensively amends Chapter 94 in accordance with the
provisions of ORC 718 to allow the Municipality to continue the income tax and
withholding tax administration and collection efforts on behalf of the
Municipality.
(Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.02 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   Ordinance 3572, effective January 1, 2016, and corresponding changes
to ORC 718, apply to municipal taxable years beginning on or after January 1,
2016. All provisions of this Chapter 94.5 apply to taxable years beginning 2016
and succeeding taxable years.
   (B)   Ordinance 3572 does not repeal the existing sections of Chapter 94 for
any taxable year prior to 2016, but rather amends Chapter 94 effective January
1, 2016. For municipal taxable years beginning before January 1, 2016, the
Municipality shall continue to administer, audit, and enforce the income tax of
the Municipality under ORC 718 and ordinances and resolutions of the
Municipality as that chapter and those ordinances and resolutions existed
before January 1, 2016. (Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.03 DEFINITIONS.
   Any term used in this chapter that is not otherwise defined in this chapter
has the same meaning as when used in a comparable context in laws of the United
States relating to federal income taxation or in Title LVII of the Ohio Revised
Code, unless a different meaning is clearly required. If a term used in this
chapter that is not otherwise defined in this chapter is used in a comparable
context in both the laws of the United States relating to federal income tax
and in Title LVII of the Ohio Revised Code and the use is not consistent, then
the use of the term in the laws of the United States relating to federal income
tax shall control over the use of the term in Title LVII of the Ohio Revised
Code.
   For purposes of this Section, the singular shall include the plural, and the
masculine shall include the feminine and the gender-neutral.
   As used in this chapter:
   (1)   "ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME," for a person required to file as a
C corporation, or for a person that has elected to be taxed as a C corporation
under division 23(D) of this section, means a C corporation's federal taxable
income before net operating losses and special deductions as determined under
the Internal Revenue Code, adjusted as follows:
      (A)   Deduct intangible income to the extent included in federal taxable
income. The deduction shall be allowed regardless of whether the intangible
income relates to assets used in a trade or business or assets held for the
production of income.
      (B)   Add an amount equal to five per cent of intangible income deducted
under division (1)(A) of this section, but excluding that portion of intangible
income directly related to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of property
described in section 1221 of the Internal Revenue Code;
      (C)   Add any losses allowed as a deduction in the computation of federal
taxable income if the losses directly relate to the sale, exchange, or other
disposition of an asset described in section 1221 or 1231 of the Internal
Revenue Code;
      (D)   (i)   Except as provided in division (1)(D)(ii) of this section,
deduct income and gain included in federal taxable income to the extent the
income and gain directly relate to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of
an asset described in section 1221 or 1231 of the Internal Revenue Code;
         (ii)   Division (1)(D)(i) of this section does not apply to the extent
the income or gain is income or gain described in section 1245 or 1250 of the
Internal Revenue Code.
      (E)   Add taxes on or measured by net income allowed as a deduction in
the computation of federal taxable income;
      (F)   In the case of a real estate investment trust or regulated
investment company, add all amounts with respect to dividends to, distributions
to, or amounts set aside for or credited to the benefit of investors and
allowed as a deduction in the computation of federal taxable income;
      (G)   Deduct, to the extent not otherwise deducted or excluded in
computing federal taxable income, any income derived from a transfer agreement
or from the enterprise transferred under that agreement under section 4313.02
of the Ohio Revised Code;
      (H)   (i)   Except as limited by divisions (1)(H)(ii), (iii) and (iv) of
this section, deduct any net operating loss incurred by the person in a taxable
year beginning on or after January 1, 2017.
            The amount of such net operating loss shall be deducted from net
profit that is reduced by exempt income to the extent necessary to reduce
municipal taxable income to zero, with any remaining unused portion of the net
operating loss carried forward to not more than five consecutive taxable years
following the taxable year in which the loss was incurred, but in no case for
more years than necessary for the deduction to be fully utilized.
         (ii)   No person shall use the deduction allowed by division (1)(H) of
this section to offset qualifying wages.
         (iii)   (a)   For taxable years beginning in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021,
or 2022, a person may not deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by a
municipal corporation that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, more
than fifty per cent of the amount of the deduction otherwise allowed by
division (1)(H)(i) of this section.
            (b)   For taxable years beginning in 2023 or thereafter, a person
may deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by a municipal corporation
that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, the full amount allowed by
division (1)(H)(i) of this section.
         (iv)   Any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward deduction that is
available must be utilized before a taxpayer may deduct any amount pursuant to
division (1)(H) of this section.
         (v)   Nothing in division (1)(H)(iii)(a) of this section precludes a
person from carrying forward, for use with respect to any return filed for a
taxable year beginning after 2018, any amount of net operating loss that was
not fully utilized by operation of division (1)(H)(iii)(a) of this section. To
the extent that an amount of net operating loss that was not fully utilized in
one or more taxable years by operation of division (1)(H)(iii)(a) of this
section is carried forward for use with respect to a return filed for a taxable
year beginning in 2019, 2020, 2021, or 2022, the limitation described in
division (1)(H)(iii)(a) of this section shall apply to the amount carried
forward.
      (I)   Deduct any net profit of a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer's federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that net profit in
the group's federal taxable income in accordance with division (E)(3)(b) of
Section
94.5.063 of this Chapter.
      (J)   Add any loss incurred by a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer's federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that loss in the
group's federal taxable income in accordance with division (E)(3)(b) of Section
94.5.063 of this Chapter.
         If the taxpayer is not a C corporation, is not a disregarded entity
that has made the election described in division (47)(B) of this section, is
not a publicly traded partnership that has made the election described in
division (23)(D) of this section, and is not an individual, the taxpayer shall
compute adjusted federal taxable income under this section as if the taxpayer
were a C corporation, except guaranteed payments and other similar amounts paid
or accrued to a partner, former partner, shareholder, former shareholder,
member, or former member shall not be allowed as a deductible expense unless
such payments are in consideration for the use of capital and treated as
payment of interest under section 469 of the Internal Revenue Code or United
States treasury regulations. Amounts paid or accrued to a qualified self-
employed retirement plan with respect to a partner, former partner,
shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member of the taxpayer,
amounts paid or accrued to or for health insurance for a partner, former
partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member, and amounts
paid or accrued to or for life insurance for a partner, former partner,
shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member shall not be allowed
as a deduction.
         Nothing in division (1) of this section shall be construed as allowing
the taxpayer to add or deduct any amount more than once or shall be construed
as allowing any taxpayer to deduct any amount paid to or accrued for purposes
of federal self-employment tax.
   (2)   (A)   "ASSESSMENT" means any of the following:
         (i)   A written finding by the Tax Administrator that a person has
underpaid municipal income tax, or owes penalty and interest, or any
combination of tax, penalty, or interest, to the municipal corporation;
         (ii)   A full or partial denial of a refund request issued under
Section
94.5.096 (B)(2) of this Chapter;
         (iii)   A Tax Administrator's denial of a taxpayer's request for use
of an alternative apportionment method, issued under Section
94.5.062(B)(2) of this Chapter; or
         (iv)   A Tax Administrator's requirement for a taxpayer to use an
alternative apportionment method, issued under Section
94.5.062(B)(3) of this Chapter.
         (v)   For purposes of division (2)(A)(i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) of this
Section, an assessment shall commence the person's time limitation for making
an appeal to the Local Board of Tax Review pursuant to Section
94.5.18 of this Chapter, and shall have "ASSESSMENT" written in all capital
letters at the top of such finding.
      (B)   "ASSESSMENT" does not include notice(s) denying a request for
refund issued under Section
94.5.096 (B)(3) of this Chapter, a billing statement notifying a taxpayer of
current or past-due balances owed to the municipal corporation, a Tax
Administrator's request for additional information, a notification to the
taxpayer of mathematical errors, or a Tax Administrator's other written
correspondence to a person or taxpayer that does not meet the criteria
prescribed by division (2)(A) of this section.
   (3)   "AUDIT" means the examination of a person or the inspection of the
books, records, memoranda, or accounts of a person, ordered to appear before
the Tax Administrator, for the purpose of determining liability for a municipal
income tax
   (4)   "BOARD OF REVIEW" has same meaning as "Local Board of Tax Review".
   (5)   "CALENDAR QUARTER" means the three-month period ending on the last day
of March, June, September, or December.
   (6)   “CASINO OPERATOR" and "CASINO FACILITY" have the same meanings as in
section 3772.01 of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (7)   "CERTIFIED MAIL," "EXPRESS MAIL," "UNITED STATES MAIL," "POSTAL
SERVICE," and similar terms include any delivery service authorized pursuant to
section 5703.056 of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (8)   “COMPENSATION" means any form of remuneration paid to an employee for
personal services.
   (9)   "DISREGARDED ENTITY" means a single member limited liability company,
a qualifying subchapter S subsidiary, or another entity if the company,
subsidiary, or entity is a disregarded entity for federal income tax purposes.
   (10)   "DOMICILE" means the true, fixed and permanent home of the taxpayer
to which, whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return.
   (11)   "EXEMPT INCOME" means all of the following:
      (A)   The military pay or allowances of members of the armed forces of
the United States or members of their reserve components, including the
national guard of any state;
      (B)   (i)   Except as provided in division (11)(B)(ii) of this section,
intangible income;
         (ii)   A municipal corporation that taxed any type of intangible
income on March 29, 1988, pursuant to Section 3 of S.B. 238 of the 116th
general assembly, may continue to tax that type of income if a majority of the
electors of the municipal corporation voting on the question of whether to
permit the taxation of that type of intangible income after 1988 voted in favor
thereof at an election held on November 8, 1988.
      (C)   Social security benefits, railroad retirement benefits,
unemployment compensation, pensions, retirement benefit payments, payments from
annuities, and similar payments made to an employee or to the beneficiary of an
employee under a retirement program or plan, disability payments received from
private industry or local, state, or federal governments or from charitable,
religious or educational organizations, and the proceeds of sickness, accident,
or liability insurance policies. As used in division (11)(C) of this section,
"unemployment compensation" does not include supplemental unemployment
compensation described in section 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (D)   The income of religious, fraternal, charitable, scientific,
literary, or educational institutions to the extent such income is derived from
tax-exempt real estate, tax-exempt tangible or intangible property, or tax-
exempt activities.
      (E)   Compensation paid under section 3501.28 or 3501.36 of the Ohio
Revised Code to a person serving as a precinct election official to the extent
that such compensation does not exceed one thousand dollars for the taxable
year. Such compensation in excess of one thousand dollars for the taxable year
may be subject to taxation by a municipal corporation. A municipal corporation
shall not require the payer of such compensation to withhold any tax from that
compensation.
      (F)   Dues, contributions, and similar payments received by charitable,
religious, educational, or literary organizations or labor unions, lodges, and
similar organizations;
      (G)   Alimony and child support received;
      (H)   Awards for personal injuries or for damages to property from
insurance proceeds or otherwise, excluding compensation paid for lost salaries
or wages or awards for punitive damages;
      (I)   Income of a public utility when that public utility is subject to
the tax levied under section 5727.24 or 5727.30 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Division (11)(I) of this section does not apply for purposes of Chapter 5745.
of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (J)   Gains from involuntary conversions, interest on federal
obligations, items of income subject to a tax levied by the state and that a
municipal corporation is specifically prohibited by law from taxing, and income
of a decedent's estate during the period of administration except such income
from the operation of a trade or business;
      (K)   Compensation or allowances excluded from federal gross income under
section 107 of the Internal Revenue Code;
      (L)   Employee compensation that is not qualifying wages as defined in
division (34) of this section;
      (M)   Compensation paid to a person employed within the boundaries of a
United States air force base under the jurisdiction of the United States air
force that is used for the housing of members of the United States air force
and is a center for air force operations, unless the person is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile. If the compensation is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile, tax on such income shall be payable
only to the municipal corporation of residence or domicile.
      (N)   An S corporation shareholder's distributive share of net profits of
the S corporation, other than any part of the distributive share of net profits
that represents wages as defined in section 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue
Code or net earnings from self-employment as defined in section 1402(a) of the
Internal Revenue Code.
      (O)   All of the municipal taxable income earned by individuals under
eighteen years of age.
      (P)   (i)   Except as provided in divisions (11)(P)(ii), (iii), and (iv)
of this section, qualifying wages described in division (B)(1) or (E) of
Section
94.5.052 of this Chapter to the extent the qualifying wages are not subject to
withholding for the Municipality under either of those divisions.
         (ii)   The exemption provided in division (11)(P)(i) of this section
does not apply with respect to the municipal corporation in which the employee
resided at the time the employee earned the qualifying wages.
         (iii)   The exemption provided in division (11)(P)(i) of this section
does not apply to qualifying wages that an employer elects to withhold under
division (D)(2) of Section
94.5.052 of this Chapter
         (iv)   The exemption provided in division (11)(P)(i) of this section
does not apply to qualifying wages if both of the following conditions apply:
            (a)   For qualifying wages described in division (B)(1) of Section
94.5.052 of this Chapter, the employee's employer withholds and remits tax on
the qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the employee's
principal place of work is situated, or, for qualifying wages described in
division (E) of Section
94.5.052 of this Chapter, the employee's employer withholds and remits tax on
the qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the employer's fixed
location is located;
            (b)   The employee receives a refund of the tax described in
division (11)(P)(iv)(a) of this section on the basis of the employee not
performing services in that municipal corporation.
      (Q)   (i)   Except as provided in division (11)(Q)(ii) or (iii) of this
section, compensation that is not qualifying wages paid to a nonresident
individual for personal services performed in the Municipality on not more than
twenty days in a taxable year.
         (ii)   The exemption provided in division (11)(Q)(i) of this section
does not apply under either of the following circumstances:
            (a)   The individual's base of operation is located in the
Municipality.
            (b)   The individual is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer, or public figure, and the compensation is paid for the performance
of services in the individual's capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer, or public figure. For purposes of division (11)(Q)
(ii)(b) of this section, "professional athlete," "professional entertainer,"
and "public figure" have the same meanings as in Section
94.5.052 of this Chapter.
         (iii)   Compensation to which division (11)(Q) of this section applies
shall be treated as earned or received at the individual's base of operation.
If the individual does not have a base of operation, the compensation shall be
treated as earned or received where the individual is domiciled.
         (iv)   For purposes of division (11)(Q) of this section, "base of
operation" means the location where an individual owns or rents an office,
storefront, or similar facility to which the individual regularly reports and
at which the individual regularly performs personal services for compensation.
      (R)   Compensation paid to a person for personal services performed for a
political subdivision on property owned by the political subdivision,
regardless of whether the compensation is received by an employee of the
subdivision or another person performing services for the subdivision under a
contract with the subdivision, if the property on which services are performed
is annexed to a municipal corporation pursuant to section 709.023 of the Ohio
Revised Code on or after March 27, 2013, unless the person is subject to such
taxation because of residence. If the compensation is subject to taxation
because of residence, municipal income tax shall be payable only to the
municipal corporation of residence.
      (S)   Income the taxation of which is prohibited by the constitution or
laws of the United States.
         Any item of income that is exempt income of a pass-through entity
under division (11) of this section is exempt income of each owner of the pass-
through entity to the extent of that owner's distributive or proportionate
share of that item of the entity's income.
   (12)   "FORM 2106" means internal revenue service form 2106 filed by a
taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   (13)   "GENERIC FORM" means an electronic or paper form that is not
prescribed by a particular municipal corporation and that is designed for
reporting taxes withheld by an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer,
estimated municipal income taxes, or annual municipal income tax liability,
including a request for refund.
   (14)   "INCOME" means the following:
      (A)   (i)   For residents, all income, salaries, qualifying wages,
commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or received by
the resident, including the resident's distributive share of the net profit of
pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by the resident and any net
profit of the resident, except as provided in division (23)(D) of this section.
         (ii)   For the purposes of division (14)(A)(i) of this section:
            (a)   Any net operating loss of the resident incurred in the
taxable year and the resident's distributive share of any net operating loss
generated in the same taxable year and attributable to the resident's ownership
interest in a pass-through entity shall be allowed as a deduction, for that
taxable year and the following five taxable years, against any other net profit
of the resident or the resident's distributive share of any net profit
attributable to the resident's ownership interest in a pass-through entity
until fully utilized, subject to division (14)(A)(iv) of this section;
            (b)   The resident's distributive share of the net profit of each
pass-through entity owned directly or indirectly by the resident shall be
calculated without regard to any net operating loss that is carried forward by
that entity from a prior taxable year and applied to reduce the entity's net
profit for the current taxable year.
         (iii)   Division (14)(A)(ii) of this section does not apply with
respect to any net profit or net operating loss attributable to an ownership
interest in an S corporation unless shareholders' distributive shares of net
profits from S corporations are subject to tax in the municipal corporation as
provided in division 11(N) or division 14(E) of this Section.
         (iv)   Any amount of a net operating loss used to reduce a taxpayer's
net profit for a taxable year shall reduce the amount of net operating loss
that may be carried forward to any subsequent year for use by that taxpayer. In
no event shall the cumulative deductions for all taxable years with respect to
a taxpayer's net operating loss exceed the original amount of that net
operating loss available to that taxpayer.
      (B)   In the case of nonresidents, all income, salaries, qualifying
wages, commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or
received by the nonresident for work done, services performed or rendered, or
activities conducted in the Municipality, including any net profit of the
nonresident, but excluding the nonresident's distributive share of the net
profit or loss of only pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by
the nonresident.
      (C)   For taxpayers that are not individuals, net profit of the taxpayer;
      (D)   Lottery, sweepstakes, gambling and sports winnings, winnings from
games of chance, and prizes and awards. If the taxpayer is a professional
gambler for federal income tax purposes, the taxpayer may deduct related
wagering losses and expenses to the extent authorized under the Internal
Revenue Code and claimed against such winnings. Credit for tax withheld or paid
to another municipal corporation on such winnings paid to the municipal
corporation where winnings occur is limited to the credit as specified in
Section
94.5.081 of this Chapter.
   (15)   "INTANGIBLE INCOME" means income of any of the following types:
income yield, interest, capital gains, dividends, or other income arising from
the ownership, sale, exchange, or other disposition of intangible property
including, but not limited to, investments, deposits, money, or credits as
those terms are defined in Chapter 5701. of the Ohio Revised Code, and patents,
copyrights, trademarks, trade names, investments in real estate investment
trusts, investments in regulated investment companies, and appreciation on
deferred compensation. "Intangible income" does not include prizes, awards, or
other income associated with any lottery winnings, gambling winnings, or other
similar games of chance.
   (16)   "INTERNAL REVENUE CODE" means the "Internal Revenue Code of 1986,"
100 Sta. 2085, 26 U.S.C.A. 1, as amended.
   (17)   "LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY" means a limited liability company formed
under Chapter 1705 of the Ohio Revised Code or under the laws of another state.
   (18)   “LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW" and "BOARD OF TAX REVIEW" means the
entity created under Section
94.5.18 of this Chapter..
   (19)   "MUNICIPAL CORPORATION" means, in general terms, a status conferred
upon a local government unit, by state law giving the unit certain autonomous
operating authority such as the power of taxation, power of eminent domain,
police power and regulatory power, and includes a joint economic development
district or joint economic development zone that levies an income tax under
section 715.691, 715.70, 715.71, or 715.74 of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (20)   (A)   "MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME" means the following:
         (i)   For a person other than an individual, income reduced by exempt
income to the extent otherwise included in income and then, as applicable,
apportioned or sitused to the Municipality under Section
94.5.062 of this Chapter, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating
loss carryforward available to the person for the Municipality.
         (ii)   (a)   For an individual who is a resident of a Municipality
other than a qualified municipal corporation, income reduced by exempt income
to the extent otherwise included in income, then reduced as provided in
division (20)(B) of this section, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net
operating loss carryforward available to the individual for the Municipality.
            (b)   For an individual who is a resident of a qualified municipal
corporation, Ohio adjusted gross income reduced by income exempted, and
increased by deductions excluded, by the qualified municipal corporation from
the qualified municipal corporation's tax on or before December 31, 2013. If a
qualified municipal corporation, on or before December 31, 2013, exempts income
earned by individuals who are not residents of the qualified municipal
corporation and net profit of persons that are not wholly located within the
qualified municipal corporation, such individual or person shall have no
municipal taxable income for the purposes of the tax levied by the qualified
municipal corporation and may be exempted by the qualified municipal
corporation from the requirements of section 718.03 of the Ohio Revised Code.
         (iii)   For an individual who is a nonresident of the Municipality,
income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and
then, as applicable, apportioned or sitused to the Municipality under Section
94.5.062 of this Chapter, then reduced as provided in division (20)(B) of this
section, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward
available to the individual for the Municipality.
      (B)   In computing the municipal taxable income of a taxpayer who is an
individual, the taxpayer may subtract, as provided in division (20)(A)(ii)(a)
or (iii) of this section, the amount of the individual's employee business
expenses reported on the individual's form 2106 that the individual deducted
for federal income tax purposes for the taxable year, subject to the limitation
imposed by section 67 of the Internal Revenue Code. For the municipal
corporation in which the taxpayer is a resident, the taxpayer may deduct all
such expenses allowed for federal income tax purposes. For a municipal
corporation in which the taxpayer is not a resident, the taxpayer may deduct
such expenses only to the extent the expenses are related to the taxpayer's
performance of personal services in that nonresident municipal corporation.
   (21)   "MUNICIPALITY" means the City of West Carrollton.
   (22)   "NET OPERATING LOSS" means a loss incurred by a person in the
operation of a trade or business. "Net operating loss" does not include
unutilized losses resulting from basis limitations, at-risk limitations, or
passive activity loss limitations.
   (23)   (A)   “NET PROFIT" for a person other than an individual means
adjusted federal taxable income.
      (B)   "NET PROFIT" for a person who is an individual means the
individual's net profit required to be reported on schedule C, schedule E, or
schedule F reduced by any net operating loss carried forward. For the purposes
of division, the net operating loss carried forward shall be calculated and
deducted in the same manner as provided in division (1)(H) of this section.
      (C)   For the purposes of this chapter, and notwithstanding division (23)
(A) of this section, net profit of a disregarded entity shall not be taxable as
against that disregarded entity, but shall instead be included in the net
profit of the owner of the disregarded entity.
      (D)   (i)   For purposes of this chapter, "publicly traded partnership"
means any partnership, an interest in which is regularly traded on an
established securities market. A "publicly traded partnership" may have any
number of partners.
         (ii)   For the purposes of this chapter, and not withstanding any
other provision of this chapter, the net profit of a publicly traded
partnership that makes the election described in division (23)(D) of this
section shall be taxed as if the partnership were a C corporation, and shall
not be treated as the net profit or income of any owner of the partnership.
         (iii)   A publicly traded partnership that is treated as a partnership
for federal income tax purposes and that is subject to tax on its net profits
in one or more municipal corporations in this state may elect to be treated as
a C corporation for municipal income tax purposes. The publicly traded
partnership shall make the election in every municipal corporation in which the
partnership is subject to taxation on its net profits. The election shall be
made on the annual tax return filed in each such municipal corporation. Once
the election is made, the election is binding for a five-year period beginning
with the first taxable year of the initial election. The election continues to
be binding for each subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to
discontinue filing municipal income tax returns as a C corporation for
municipal purposes under division (D)(iv) of this section.
         (iv)   An election to discontinue filing as a C corporation must be
made in the first year following the last year of a five-year election period
in effect under division (D)(iii) of this section. The election to discontinue
filing as a C corporation is binding for a five-year period beginning with the
first taxable year of the election and continues to be binding for each
subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to discontinue filing
municipal income tax returns as a partnership for municipal purposes. An
election to discontinue filing as a partnership must be made in the first year
following the last year of a five-year election period.
         (v)   The publicly traded partnership shall not be required to file
the election with any municipal corporation in which the partnership is not
subject to taxation on its net profits, but division (D) of this section
applies to all municipal corporations in which an individual owner of the
partnership resides.
         (vi)   The individual owners of the partnership not filing as a C
Corporation shall be required to file with their municipal corporation of
residence, and report partnership distribution of net profit.
   (24)   "NONRESIDENT" means an individual that is not a resident of the
Municipality.
   (25)   "OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY" means the online computer network system,
created under section 125.30 of the Ohio Revised Code, that allows persons to
electronically file business reply forms with state agencies and includes any
successor electronic filing and payment system.
   (26)   "OTHER PAYER" means any person, other than an individual's employer
or the employer's agent, that pays an individual any amount included in the
federal gross income of the individual. "Other payer" includes casino operators
and video lottery terminal sales agents.
   (27)   "PASS-THROUGH ENTITY" means a partnership not treated as an
association taxable as a C corporation for federal income tax purposes, a
limited liability company not treated as an association taxable as a C
corporation for federal income tax purposes, an S corporation, or any other
class of entity from which the income or profits of the entity are given pass-
through treatment for federal income tax purposes. "Pass-through entity" does
not include a trust, estate, grantor of a grantor trust, or disregarded entity.
   (28)   "PENSION" means any amount paid to an employee or former employee
that is reported to the recipient on an IRS form 1099-R, or successor form.
Pension does not include deferred compensation, or amounts attributable to
nonqualified deferred compensation plans, reported as FICA/Medicare wages on an
IRS form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, or successor form.
   (29)   "PERSON" includes individuals, firms, companies, joint stock
companies, business trusts, estates, trusts, partnerships, limited liability
partnerships, limited liability companies, associations, C corporations, S
corporations, governmental entities, and any other entity.
   (30)   "POSTAL SERVICE" means the United States postal service, or private
delivery service delivering documents and packages within an agreed upon
delivery schedule, or any other carrier service delivering the item.
   (31)   "POSTMARK DATE," "DATE OF POSTMARK," and similar terms include the
date recorded and marked by a delivery service and recorded electronically to a
database kept in the regular course if its business and marked on the cover in
which the payment or document is enclosed, the date on which the payment or
document was given to the delivery service for delivery
   (32)   (A)   "PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD" means any net
operating loss incurred in a taxable year beginning before January 1, 2017, to
the extent such loss was permitted, by a resolution or ordinance of the
Municipality that was adopted by the Municipality before January 1, 2016, to be
carried forward and utilized to offset income or net profit generated in such
Municipality in future taxable years.
      (B)   For the purpose of calculating municipal taxable income, any pre-
2017 net operating loss carryforward may be carried forward to any taxable
year, including taxable years beginning in 2017 or thereafter, for the number
of taxable years provided in the resolution or ordinance or until fully
utilized, whichever is earlier.
   (33)   “QUALIFIED MUNICIPAL CORPORATION" means a municipal corporation that,
by resolution or ordinance adopted on or before December 31, 2011, adopted Ohio
adjusted gross income, as defined by section 5747.01 of the Ohio Revised Code,
as the income subject to tax for the purposes of imposing a municipal income
tax.
   (34)   "QUALIFYING WAGES" means wages, as defined in section 3121(a) of the
Internal Revenue Code, without regard to any wage limitations, adjusted as
follows:
      (A)   Deduct the following amounts:
         (i)   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes
compensation attributable to a plan or program described in section 125 of the
Internal Revenue Code.
         (ii)   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes payment
on account of a disability related to sickness or an accident paid by a party
unrelated to the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer.
         (iii)   Intentionally left blank.
         (iv)   Intentionally left blank.
         (v)   Any amount included in wages that is exempt income.
      (B)   Add the following amounts:
         (i)   Any amount not included in wages solely because the employee was
employed by the employer before April 1, 1986.
         (ii)   Any amount not included in wages because the amount arises from
the sale, exchange, or other disposition of a stock option, the exercise of a
stock option, or the sale, exchange, or other disposition of stock purchased
under a stock option. Division (34)(B)(ii) of this section applies only to
those amounts constituting ordinary income.
         (iii)   Any amount not included in wages if the amount is an amount
described in section 401(k), 403(b), or 457 of the Internal Revenue Code.
Division (34)(B)(iii) of this section applies only to employee contributions
and employee deferrals.
         (iv)   Any amount that is supplemental unemployment compensation
benefits described in section 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code and not
included in wages.
         (v)   Any amount received that is treated as self-employment income
for federal tax purposes in accordance with section 1402(a)(8) of the Internal
Revenue Code.
         (vi)   Any amount not included in wages if all of the following apply:
            (a)   For the taxable year the amount is employee compensation that
is earned outside of the United States and that either is included in the
taxpayer's gross income for federal income tax purposes or would have been
included in the taxpayer's gross income for such purposes if the taxpayer did
not elect to exclude the income under section 911 of the Internal Revenue Code;
            (b)   For no preceding taxable year did the amount constitute wages
as defined in section 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue Code;
            (c)   For no succeeding taxable year will the amount constitute
wages; and
            (d)   For any taxable year the amount has not otherwise been added
to wages pursuant to either division (34)(B) of this section or section 718.03
of the Ohio Revised Code, as that section existed before the effective date of
H.B. 5 of the 130th general assembly, March 23, 2015.
   (35)   "RELATED ENTITY" means any of the following:
      (A)   An individual stockholder, or a member of the stockholder's family
enumerated in section 318 of the Internal Revenue Code, if the stockholder and
the members of the stockholder's family own directly, indirectly, beneficially,
or constructively, in the aggregate, at least fifty per cent of the value of
the taxpayer's outstanding stock;
      (B)   A stockholder, or a stockholder's partnership, estate, trust, or
corporation, if the stockholder and the stockholder's partnerships, estates,
trusts, or corporations own directly, indirectly, beneficially, or
constructively, in the aggregate, at least fifty per cent of the value of the
taxpayer's outstanding stock;
      (C)   A corporation, or a party related to the corporation in a manner
that would require an attribution of stock from the corporation to the party or
from the party to the corporation under division (35)(D) of this section,
provided the taxpayer owns directly, indirectly, beneficially, or
constructively, at least fifty per cent of the value of the corporation's
outstanding stock;
      (D)   The attribution rules described in section 318 of the Internal
Revenue Code apply for the purpose of determining whether the ownership
requirements in divisions (35)(A) to (C) of this section have been met.
   (36)   "RELATED MEMBER" means a person that, with respect to the taxpayer
during all or any portion of the taxable year, is either a related entity, a
component member as defined in section 1563(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, or
a person to or from whom there is attribution of stock ownership in accordance
with section 1563(e) of the Internal Revenue Code except, for purposes of
determining whether a person is a related member under this division, "twenty
per cent" shall be substituted for "5 percent" wherever "5 percent" appears in
section 1563(e) of the Internal Revenue Code.
   (37)   "RESIDENT" means an individual who is domiciled in the Municipality
as determined under Section
94.5.042 of this Chapter.
   (38)   "S CORPORATION" means a person that has made an election under
subchapter S of Chapter 1 of Subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code for its
taxable year.
   (39)   "SCHEDULE C" means internal revenue service schedule C (form 1040)
filed by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   (40)   "SCHEDULE E" means internal revenue service schedule E (form 1040)
filed by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   (41)   "SCHEDULE F" means internal revenue service schedule F (form 1040)
filed by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   (42)   "SINGLE MEMBER LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY" means a limited liability
company that has one direct member.
   (43)   "SMALL EMPLOYER" means any employer that had total revenue of less
than five hundred thousand dollars during the preceding taxable year. For
purposes of this division, "total revenue" means receipts of any type or kind,
including, but not limited to, sales receipts; payments; rents; profits; gains,
dividends, and other investment income; commissions; premiums; money; property;
grants; contributions; donations; gifts; program service revenue; patient
service revenue; premiums; fees, including premium fees and service fees;
tuition payments; unrelated business revenue; reimbursements; any type of
payment from a governmental unit, including grants and other allocations; and
any other similar receipts reported for federal income tax purposes or under
generally accepted accounting principles. "Small employer" does not include the
federal government; any state government, including any state agency or
instrumentality; any political subdivision; or any entity treated as a
government for financial accounting and reporting purposes.
   (44)   "TAX ADMINISTRATOR" means the individual charged with direct
responsibility for administration of an income tax levied by a municipal
corporation in accordance with this chapter, and also includes the following:
      (A)   A municipal corporation acting as the agent of another municipal
corporation;
      (B)   A person retained by a municipal corporation to administer a tax
levied by the municipal corporation, but only if the municipal corporation does
not compensate the person in whole or in part on a contingency basis;
      (C)   The Central Collection Agency (CCA) or the Regional Income Tax
Agency (RITA) or their successors in interest, or another entity organized to
perform functions similar to those performed by the Central Collection Agency
and the Regional Income Tax Agency.
   (45)   "TAX RETURN PREPARER" means any individual described in section 7701
(a)(36) of the Internal Revenue CODE AND 26 C.F.R. 301.7701-15 .
   (46)   "TAXABLE YEAR" means the corresponding tax reporting period as
prescribed for the taxpayer under the Internal Revenue Code.
   (47)   (A)   "TAXPAYER" means a person subject to a tax levied on income by
a municipal corporation in accordance with this chapter. "Taxpayer" does not
include a grantor trust or, except as provided in division (47)(B)(i) of this
section, a disregarded entity.
      (B)   (i)   A single member limited liability company that is a
disregarded entity for federal tax purposes may be a separate taxpayer from its
single member in all Ohio municipal corporations in which it either filed as a
separate taxpayer or did not file for its taxable year ending in 2003, if all
of the following conditions are met:
            (a)   The limited liability company's single member is also a
limited liability company.
            (b)   The limited liability company and its single member were
formed and doing business in one or more Ohio municipal corporations for at
least five years before January 1, 2004.
            (c)   Not later than December 31, 2004, the limited liability
company and its single member each made an election to be treated as a separate
taxpayer under division (L) of section 718.01 of the Ohio Revised Code as this
section existed on December 31, 2004.
            (d)   The limited liability company was not formed for the purpose
of evading or reducing Ohio municipal corporation income tax liability of the
limited liability company or its single member.
            (e)   The Ohio municipal corporation that was the primary place of
business of the sole member of the limited liability company consented to the
election.
         (ii)   For purposes of division (47)(B)(i)(e) of this section, a
municipal corporation was the primary place of business of a limited liability
company if, for the limited liability company's taxable year ending in 2003,
its income tax liability was greater in that municipal corporation than in any
other municipal corporation in Ohio, and that tax liability to that municipal
corporation for its taxable year ending in 2003 was at least four hundred
thousand dollars.
   (48)   “TAXPAYERS' RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES" means the rights provided to
taxpayers in sections 718.11 , 718.12 , 718.19, 718.23, 718.36, 718.37, 718.38,
5717.011 , and 5717.03 of the Ohio Revised Code and any corresponding
ordinances of the Municipality, and the responsibilities of taxpayers to file,
report, withhold, remit, and pay municipal income tax and otherwise comply with
Chapter 718. of the Ohio Revised Code and resolutions, ordinances, and rules
adopted by a municipal corporation for the imposition and administration of a
municipal income tax.
   (49)   "VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL" has the same meaning as in section 3770.21
of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (50)   "VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL SALES AGENT" means a lottery sales agent
licensed under Chapter 3770. of the Ohio Revised Code to conduct video lottery
terminals on behalf of the state pursuant to section 3770.21 of the Ohio
Revised Code.
(Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.04 INCOME SUBJECT TO TAX FOR INDIVIDUALS.
§ 94.5.041 DETERMINING MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME FOR INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   "Municipal Taxable Income" for a resident of the Municipality is
calculated as follows:
      (1)   "Income" reduced by "Exempt Income" to the extent such exempt
income is otherwise included in income, reduced by allowable employee business
expense deduction as found in division (20)(B) of Section
94.5.03 of this Chapter, further reduced by any "Pre-2017 Net Operating Loss
Carryforward" equals "Municipal Taxable Income".
         (a)   "Income" is defined in Section
94.5.03 (14) of this Chapter.
            (i)   "Qualifying Wages" is defined in Section
94.5.03(34).
            (ii)   "Net profit" is included in "income", and is defined in
Section
94.5.03 (23) of this Chapter. This section also provides that the net operating
loss carryforward shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as
provided in division (1)(H) of Section
94.5.03. Treatment of net profits received by an individual taxpayer from
rental real estate is provided in Section
94.5.062(E).
            (iii)   Section
94.5.03(14) provides the following: offsetting and net operating loss
carryforward treatment in (14)(A)(ii)(a); resident's distributive share of net
profit from pass
through entity treatment in (14)(A)(ii)(b); treatment of S Corporation
distributive share of net profit in the hands of the shareholder in (14)(A)
(iii); restriction of amount of loss permitted to be carried forward for use by
taxpayer in a subsequent taxable year in (14)(A)(iv).
            (iv)   “Pass Through Entity" is defined in Section
94.5.03(27).
         (b)   "Exempt Income" is defined in Section
94.5.03 (11) of this Chapter.
         (c)   Allowable employee business expense deduction is described in
(20)(B) of Section
94.5.03 of this Chapter, and is subject to the limitations provided in that
section.
         (d)   "Pre-2017 Net Operating Loss Carryforward" is defined in Section
94.5.03 (32) of this Chapter
   (B)   "Municipal Taxable Income" for a nonresident of the Municipality is
calculated as follows:
      (1)   "Income" reduced by "Exempt Income" to the extent such exempt
income is otherwise included in income, as applicable, apportioned or sitused
to the Municipality as provided in Section
94.5.062 of this Chapter, reduced by allowable employee business expense
deduction as found in (20)(B) of Section
94.5.03 of this Chapter, further reduced by any "Pre-2017 Net Operating Loss
Carryforward" equals "Municipal Taxable Income".
         (a)   "Income" is defined in Section
94.5.03(14) of this Chapter.
            (i)   “Qualifying Wages" is defined in Section
94.5.03(34).
            (ii)   "Net profit" is included in "income", and is defined in
Section
94.5.03(23) of this Chapter. This section also provides that the net operating
loss carryforward shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as
provided in division (1)(H) of Section
94.5.03. "Net profit" for a nonresident individual includes any net profit of
the nonresident, but excludes the distributive share of net profit or loss of
only pass through entity owned directly or indirectly by the nonresident.
            (iii)   "Pass Through Entity" is defined in Section
94.5.03(27).
         (b)   “Exempt Income" is defined in Section
94.5.03(11) of this Chapter.
         (c)   "Apportioned or sitused to the Municipality as provided in
Section
94.5.062 of this Chapter" includes the apportionment of net profit income
attributable to work done or services performed in the Municipality. Treatment
of net profits received by an individual taxpayer from rental real estate is
provided in Section
94.5.062(E).
         (d)   "Allowable employee business expense deduction" as described in
(20)(B) of Section
94.5.03 of this Chapter, is subject to the limitations provided in that
section. For a nonresident of the Municipality, the deduction is limited to the
extent the expenses are related to the performance of personal services by the
nonresident in the Municipality.
         (e)   "Pre-2017 Net Operating Loss Carryforward" is defined in Section
94.5.03(32) of this Chapter.
(Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.042 DOMICILE.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Domicile" means the true, fixed and permanent home of the taxpayer
to which whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return.
      (2)   An individual is presumed to be domiciled in the Municipality for
all or part of a taxable year if the individual was domiciled in the
Municipality on the last day of the immediately preceding taxable year or if
the tax administrator reasonably concludes that the individual is domiciled in
the Municipality for all or part of the taxable year.
      (3)   An individual may rebut the presumption of domicile described in
division (A)(1) of this section if the individual establishes by a
preponderance of the evidence that the individual was not domiciled in the
Municipality for all or part of the taxable year.
   (B)   For the purpose of determining whether an individual is domiciled in
the Municipality for all or part of a taxable year, factors that may be
considered include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The individual's domicile in other taxable years;
      (2)   The location at which the individual is registered to vote;
      (3)   The address on the individual's driver's license;
      (4)   The location of real estate for which the individual claimed a
property tax exemption or reduction allowed on the basis of the individual's
residence or domicile;
      (5)   The location and value of abodes owned or leased by the individual;
      (6)   Declarations, written or oral, made by the individual regarding the
individual's residency;
      (7)   The primary location at which the individual is employed.
      (8)   The location of educational institutions attended by the
individual's dependents as defined in section 152 of the Internal Revenue Code,
to the extent that tuition paid to such educational institution is based on the
residency of the individual or the individual's spouse in the municipal
corporation or state where the educational institution is located;
      (9)   The number of contact periods the individual has with the
Municipality. For the purposes of this division, an individual has one "contact
period" with the Municipality if the individual is away overnight from the
individual's abode located outside of the Municipality and while away overnight
from that abode spends at least some portion, however minimal, of each of two
consecutive days in the Municipality. For purposes of this section, the State's
contact period test or bright-line test and resulting determination have no
bearing on municipal residency or domicile.
   (C)   All applicable factors are provided in Ohio Revised Code Section
718.012.
(Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.043 EXEMPTION FOR MEMBER OR EMPLOYEE OF GENERAL ASSEMBLY AND CERTAIN
JUDGES
   (A)   Only the municipal corporation of residence shall be permitted to levy
a tax on the income of any member or employee of the Ohio General Assembly,
including the Lieutenant Governor, whose income is received as a result of
services rendered as such member or employee and is paid from appropriated
funds of this state.
   (B)   Only the municipal corporation of residence and the city of Columbus
shall levy a tax on the income of the Chief Justice or a Justice of the Supreme
Court received as a result of services rendered as the Chief Justice or
Justice. Only the municipal corporation of residence shall levy a tax on the
income of a judge sitting by assignment of the Chief Justice or on the income
of a district court of appeals judge sitting in multiple locations within the
district, received as a result of services rendered as a judge.
(Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.05 COLLECTION AT SOURCE.
§ 94.5.051 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; WITHHOLDING FROM QUALIFYING WAGES.
   (A)   (1)   Each employer, agent of an employer, or other payer located or
doing business in the Municipality shall withhold from each employee an amount
equal to the qualifying wages of the employee earned by the employee in the
Municipality multiplied by the applicable rate of the Municipality's income
tax, except for qualifying wages for which withholding is not required under
section
94.5.052 of this Chapter or division (D) or (F) of this section. An employer,
agent of an employer, or other payer shall deduct and withhold the tax from
qualifying wages on the date that the employer, agent, or other payer directly,
indirectly, or constructively pays the qualifying wages to, or credits the
qualifying wages to the benefit of, the employee.
      (2)   In addition to withholding the amounts required under division (A)
(1) of this section, an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer may also
deduct and withhold, on the request of an employee, taxes for the municipal
corporation in which the employee is a resident.
   (B)   (1)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer shall remit to
the Tax Administrator of the Municipality the greater of the income taxes
deducted and withheld or the income taxes required to be deducted and withheld
by the employer, agent, or other payer, along with any report required by the
Tax Administrator to accompany such payment, according to the following
schedule:
         (a)   Any employer, agent of an employer, or other payer not required
to make payments under division (B)(1)(b) of this section of taxes required to
be deducted and withheld shall make quarterly payments to the Tax Administrator
not later than the fifteenth day of the month following the end of each
calendar quarter.
         (b)   Taxes required to be deducted and withheld shall be remitted
monthly to the Tax Administrator if the total taxes deducted and withheld or
required to be deducted and withheld by the employer, agent, or other payer on
behalf of the municipal corporation in the preceding calendar year exceeded two
thousand three hundred ninety-nine dollars, or if the total amount of taxes
deducted and withheld or required to be deducted and withheld on behalf of the
Municipality in any month of the preceding calendar quarter exceeded two
hundred dollars. Payment under division (B)(1)(b) of this section shall be made
so that the payment is received by the Tax Administrator not later than fifteen
days after the last day of each month.
   (C)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer shall make and file
a return showing the amount of tax withheld by the employer, agent, or other
payer from the qualifying wages of each employee and remitted to the Tax
Administrator. A return filed by an employer, agent, or other payer under this
division shall be accepted by the Municipality as the return required of an
employee whose sole income subject to the tax under this chapter is the
qualifying wages reported by the employee's employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer, unless the Municipality requires all resident individual taxpayers
to file a tax return under section
94.5.091 of this Chapter,
   (D)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer is not required to
withhold municipal income tax with respect to an individual's disqualifying
disposition of an incentive stock option if, at the time of the disqualifying
disposition, the individual is not an employee of either the corporation with
respect to whose stock the option has been issued or of such corporation's
successor entity.
   (E)   (1)   An employee is not relieved from liability for a tax by the
failure of the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer to withhold the
tax as required under this chapter or by the employer's, agent's, or other
payer's exemption from the requirement to withhold the tax.
      (2)   The failure of an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer to
remit to the Municipality the tax withheld relieves the employee from liability
for that tax unless the employee colluded with the employer, agent, or other
payer in connection with the failure to remit the tax withheld.
   (F)   Compensation deferred before June 26, 2003, is not subject to any
municipal corporation income tax or municipal income tax withholding
requirement to the extent the deferred compensation does not constitute
qualifying wages at the time the deferred compensation is paid or distributed.
   (G)   Each employer, agent of an employer, or other payer required to
withhold taxes is liable for the payment of that amount required to be
withheld, whether or not such taxes have been withheld, and such amount shall
be deemed to be held in trust for the Municipality until such time as the
withheld amount is remitted to the Tax Administrator.
   (H)   On or before the last day of February of each year, an employer shall
file a Withholding Reconciliation Return with the Tax Administrator listing the
names, addresses, and social security numbers of all employees from whose
qualifying wages tax was withheld or should have been withheld for the
Municipality during the preceding calendar year, the amount of tax withheld, if
any, from each such employee's qualifying wage, the total amount of qualifying
wages paid to such employee during the preceding calendar year, the name of
every other municipal corporation for which tax was withheld or should have
been withheld from such employee during the preceding calendar year, any other
information required for federal income tax reporting purposes on Internal
Revenue Service form W-2 or its equivalent form with respect to such employee,
and other information as may be required by the Tax Administrator.
   (I)   The officer or the employee of the employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer with control or direct supervision of or charged with the
responsibility for withholding the tax or filing the reports and making
payments as required by this section, shall be personally liable for a failure
to file a report or pay the tax due as required by this section. The
dissolution of an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer does not
discharge the officer's or employee's liability for a failure of the employer,
agent of an employer, or other payer to file returns or pay any tax due.
   (J)   An employer is required to deduct and withhold municipal income tax on
tips and gratuities received by the employer's employees and constituting
qualifying wages only to the extent that the tips and gratuities are under the
employer's control. For the purposes of this division, a tip or gratuity is
under the employer's control if the tip or gratuity is paid by the customer to
the employer for subsequent remittance to the employee, or if the customer pays
the tip or gratuity by credit card, debit card, or other electronic means.
   (K)   A Tax Administrator shall consider any tax withheld by an employer at
the request of an employee when such tax is not otherwise required to be
withheld by this Chapter to be tax required to be withheld and remitted for the
purposes of this section.
(Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.052 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; OCCASIONAL ENTRANT.
   (A)   The following terms as used in this section:
      (1)   "Employer" includes a person that is a related member to or of an
employer.
      (2)   "Professional athlete" means an athlete who performs services in a
professional athletic event for wages or other remuneration.
      (3)   "Professional entertainer" means a person who performs services in
the professional performing arts for wages or other remuneration on a per-event
basis.
      (4)   "Public figure" means a person of prominence who performs services
at discrete events, such as speeches, public appearances, or similar events,
for wages or other remuneration on a per-event basis.
      (5)   "Fixed location" means a permanent place of doing business in this
state, such as an office, warehouse, storefront, or similar location owned or
controlled by an employer.
      (6)   "Worksite location" means a construction site or other temporary
worksite in this state at which the employer provides services for more than
twenty days during the calendar year. "Worksite location" does not include the
home of an employee.
      (7)   "Principal place of work" means the fixed location to which an
employee is required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary
basis. If the employee is not required to report for employment duties on a
regular and ordinary basis to a fixed location, "principal place of work" means
the worksite location in this state to which the employee is required to report
for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis. If the employee is not
required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis to a
fixed location or worksite location, "principal place of work" means the
location in this state at which the employee spends the greatest number of days
in a calendar year performing services for or on behalf of the employee's
employer.
         If there is not a single municipal corporation in which the employee
spent the "greatest number of days in a calendar year" performing services for
or on behalf of the employer, but instead there are two or more municipal
corporations in which the employee spent an identical number of days that is
greater than the number of days the employee spent in any other municipal
corporation, the employer shall allocate any of the employee's qualifying wages
subject to division (B)(1)(a) of this section among those two or more municipal
corporations. The allocation shall be made using any fair and reasonable
method, including, but not limited to, an equal allocation among such municipal
corporations or an allocation based upon the time spent or sales made by the
employee in each such municipal corporation. A municipal corporation to which
qualifying wages are allocated under this division shall be the employee's
"principal place of work" with respect to those qualifying wages for the
purposes of this section.
         For the purposes of this division, the location at which an employee
spends a particular day shall be deemed in accordance with division (B)(2) of
this section, except that "location" shall be substituted for "municipal
corporation" wherever "municipal corporation" appears in that division.
   (B)   (1)   Subject to divisions (C), (E), (F), and (G) of this section, an
employer is not required to withhold municipal income tax on qualifying wages
paid to an employee for the performance of personal services in a municipal
corporation that imposes such a tax if the employee performed such services in
the municipal corporation on twenty or fewer days in a calendar year, unless
one of the following conditions applies:
         (a)   The employee's principal place of work is located in the
Municipality.
         (b)   The employee performed services at one or more presumed worksite
locations in the Municipality. For the purposes of this division, "presumed
worksite location" means a construction site or other temporary worksite in
this state at which the employer provides services that can reasonably be
expected by the employer to last more than twenty days in a calendar year.
Services can "reasonably be expected by the employer to last more than twenty
days" if either of the following applies at the time the services commence:
            (i)   The nature of the services are such that it will require more
than twenty days of actual services to complete the services;
            (ii)   The agreement between the employer and its customer to
perform services at a location requires the employer to perform actual services
at the location for more than twenty days.
         (c)   The employee is a resident of the Municipality and has requested
that the employer withhold tax from the employee's qualifying wages as provided
in section
94.5.051 of this Chapter.
         (d)   The employee is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer, or public figure, and the qualifying wages are paid for the
performance of services in the employee's capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer, or public figure within the Municipality.
      (2)   For the purposes of division (B)(1) of this section, an employee
shall be considered to have spent a day performing services in a municipal
corporation only if the employee spent more time performing services for or on
behalf of the employer in that municipal corporation than in any other
municipal corporation on that day. For the purposes of determining the amount
of time an employee spent in a particular location, the time spent performing
one or more of the following activities shall be considered to have been spent
at the employee's principal place of work:
         (a)   Traveling to the location at which the employee will first
perform services for the employer for the day;
         (b)   Traveling from a location at which the employee was performing
services for the employer to any other location;
         (c)   Traveling from any location to another location in order to pick
up or load, for the purpose of transportation or delivery, property that has
been purchased, sold, assembled, fabricated, repaired, refurbished, processed,
remanufactured, or improved by the employee's employer;
         (d)   Transporting or delivering property described in division (B)(2)
(c) of this section, provided that, upon delivery of the property, the employee
does not temporarily or permanently affix the property to real estate owned,
used, or controlled by a person other than the employee's employer;
         (e)   Traveling from the location at which the employee makes the
employee's final delivery or pick-up for the day to either the employee's
principal place of work or a location at which the employee will not perform
services for the employer.
   (C)   If the principal place of work of an employee is located in a
municipal corporation that imposes an income tax in accordance with this
chapter, the exception from withholding requirements described in division (B)
(1) of this section shall apply only if, with respect to the employee's
qualifying wages described in that division, the employer withholds and remits
tax on such qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the
employee's principal place of work is located.
   (D)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) of this section, if,
during a calendar year, the number of days an employee spends performing
personal services in a municipal corporation exceeds the twenty-day threshold
described in division (B)(1) of this section, the employer shall withhold and
remit tax to that municipal corporation for any subsequent days in that
calendar year on which the employer pays qualifying wages to the employee for
personal services performed in that municipal corporation.
      (2)   An employer required to begin withholding tax for a municipal
corporation under division (D)(1) of this section may elect to withhold tax for
that municipal corporation for the first twenty days on which the employer paid
qualifying wages to the employee for personal services performed in that
municipal corporation.
      (3)   If an employer makes the election described in division (D)(2) of
this section, the taxes withheld and paid by such an employer during those
first twenty days to the municipal corporation in which the employee's
principal place of work is located are refundable to the employee.
   (E)   Without regard to the number of days in a calendar year on which an
employee performs personal services in any municipal corporation, an employer
shall withhold municipal income tax on all of the employee's qualifying wages
for a taxable year and remit that tax only to the municipal corporation in
which the employer's fixed location is located if the employer qualifies as a
small employer as defined in Section
94.5.03 of this Chapter. To determine whether an employer qualifies as a small
employer for a taxable year, a Tax Administrator may require the employer to
provide the Tax Administrator with the employer's federal income tax return for
the preceding taxable year.
   (F)   Divisions (B)(1) and (D) of this section shall not apply to the extent
that a Tax Administrator and an employer enter into an agreement regarding the
manner in which the employer shall comply with the requirements of section
94.5.051 of this Chapter.
   (G)   In the case of a person performing personal services at a petroleum
refinery located in a municipal corporation that imposes a tax on income, an
employer is not required to withhold municipal income tax on the qualifying
wages of such a person if the person performs those services on twelve or fewer
days in a calendar year, unless the principal place of work of the employer is
located in another municipal corporation in this state that imposes a tax
applying to compensation paid to the person for services performed on those
days and the person is not liable to that other municipal corporation for tax
on the compensation paid for such services. For the purposes of this division,
a petroleum refinery is a facility with a standard industrial classification
code facility classification of 2911, petroleum refining.
   Notwithstanding division (D) of this section, if, during a calendar year,
the number of days an individual performs personal services at a petroleum
refinery exceeds twelve, the employer shall withhold tax for the municipal
corporation for the first twelve days for which the employer paid qualifying
wages to the individual and for all subsequent days in the calendar year on
which the individual performed services at the refinery.
(Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.053 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; CASINO AND VLT.
   (A)   The Municipality shall require a casino facility or a casino operator,
as defined in Section 6(C)(9) of Article XV, Ohio Constitution, and section
3772.01 of the Ohio Revised Code, respectively, or a lottery sales agent
conducting video lottery terminals sales on behalf of the state to withhold and
remit municipal income tax with respect to amounts other than qualifying wages
as provided in this section.
   (B)   If a person's winnings at a casino facility are an amount for which
reporting to the internal revenue service of the amount is required by section
6041 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, the casino operator shall deduct
and withhold municipal income tax from the person's winnings at the rate of the
tax imposed by the municipal corporation in which the casino facility is
located.
   (C)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a casino operator are held in trust
for the benefit of the municipal corporation to which the tax is owed.
      (1)   On or before the tenth day of each month, the casino operator shall
file a return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the Municipality,
providing the name, address, and social security number of the person from
whose winnings amounts were deducted and withheld, the amount of each such
deduction and withholding during the preceding calendar month, the amount of
the winnings from which each such amount was withheld, the type of casino
gaming that resulted in such winnings, and any other information required by
the Tax Administrator. With this return, the casino operator shall remit
electronically to the Municipality all amounts deducted and withheld during the
preceding month.
      (2)   Annually, on or before the thirty-first day of January, a casino
operator shall file an annual return electronically with the Tax Administrator
of the municipal corporation in which the casino facility is located,
indicating the total amount deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar
year. The casino operator shall remit electronically with the annual return any
amount that was deducted and withheld and that was not previously remitted. If
the name, address, or social security number of a person or the amount deducted
and withheld with respect to that person was omitted on a monthly return for
that reporting period, that information shall be indicated on the annual
return.
      (3)   Annually, on or before the thirty-first day of January, a casino
operator shall issue an information return to each person with respect to whom
an amount has been deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year.
The information return shall show the total amount of municipal income tax
deducted from the person's winnings during the preceding year. The casino
operator shall provide to the Tax Administrator a copy of each information
return issued under this division. The administrator may require that such
copies be transmitted electronically.
      (4)   A casino operator that fails to file a return and remit the amounts
deducted and withheld shall be personally liable for the amount withheld and
not remitted. Such personal liability extends to any penalty and interest
imposed for the late filing of a return or the late payment of tax deducted and
withheld.
      (5)   If a casino operator sells the casino facility or otherwise quits
the casino business, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties
and interest thereon are immediately due and payable. The successor shall
withhold an amount of the purchase money that is sufficient to cover the
amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties and interest thereon
until the predecessor casino operator produces either of the following:
         (a)   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid;
         (b)   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that no
amounts are due.
            If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the successor is
personally liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and withheld and
penalties and interest thereon.
      (6)   The failure of a casino operator to deduct and withhold the
required amount from a person's winnings does not relieve that person from
liability for the municipal income tax with respect to those winnings.
   (D)   If a person's prize award from a video lottery terminal is an amount
for which reporting to the internal revenue service is required by section 6041
of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, the video lottery sales agent shall
deduct and withhold municipal income tax from the person's prize award at the
rate of the tax imposed by the municipal corporation in which the video lottery
terminal facility is located.
   (E)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a video lottery sales agent are held
in trust for the benefit of the municipal corporation to which the tax is owed.
      (1)   The video lottery sales agent shall issue to a person from whose
prize award an amount has been deducted and withheld a receipt for the amount
deducted and withheld, and shall obtain from the person receiving a prize award
the person's name, address, and social security number in order to facilitate
the preparation of returns required by this section.
      (2)   On or before the tenth day of each month, the video lottery sales
agent shall file a return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the
Municipality providing the names, addresses, and social security numbers of the
persons from whose prize awards amounts were deducted and withheld, the amount
of each such deduction and withholding during the preceding calendar month, the
amount of the prize award from which each such amount was withheld, and any
other information required by the Tax Administrator. With the return, the video
lottery sales agent shall remit electronically to the Tax Administrator all
amounts deducted and withheld during the preceding month.
      (3)   A video lottery sales agent shall maintain a record of all receipts
issued under division (E) of this section and shall make those records
available to the Tax Administrator upon request. Such records shall be
maintained in accordance with section 5747.17 of the Ohio Revised Code and any
rules adopted pursuant thereto.
      (4)   Annually, on or before the thirty-first day of January, each video
lottery terminal sales agent shall file an annual return electronically with
the Tax Administrator of the municipal corporation in which the facility is
located indicating the total amount deducted and withheld during the preceding
calendar year. The video lottery sales agent shall remit electronically with
the annual return any amount that was deducted and withheld and that was not
previously remitted. If the name, address, or social security number of a
person or the amount deducted and withheld with respect to that person was
omitted on a monthly return for that reporting period, that information shall
be indicated on the annual return.
      (5)   Annually, on or before the thirty-first day of January, a video
lottery sales agent shall issue an information return to each person with
respect to whom an amount has been deducted and withheld during the preceding
calendar year. The information return shall show the total amount of municipal
income tax deducted and withheld from the person's prize award by the video
lottery sales agent during the preceding year. A video lottery sales agent
shall provide to the Tax Administrator of the municipal corporation a copy of
each information return issued under this division. The Tax Administrator may
require that such copies be transmitted electronically.
      (6)   A video lottery sales agent who fails to file a return and remit
the amounts deducted and withheld is personally liable for the amount deducted
and withheld and not remitted. Such personal liability extends to any penalty
and interest imposed for the late filing of a return or the late payment of tax
deducted and withheld.
   (F)   If a video lottery sales agent ceases to operate video lottery
terminals, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties and
interest thereon are immediately due and payable. The successor of the video
lottery sales agent that purchases the video lottery terminals from the agent
shall withhold an amount from the purchase money that is sufficient to cover
the amounts deducted and withheld and any penalties and interest thereon until
the predecessor video lottery sales agent operator produces either of the
following:
      (1)   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid;
      (2)   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that no amounts
are due.
         If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the successor is
personally liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and withheld and
penalties and interest thereon.
   (G)   The failure of a video lottery sales agent to deduct and withhold the
required amount from a person's prize award does not relieve that person from
liability for the municipal income tax with respect to that prize award.
   (H)   If a casino operator or lottery sales agent files a return late, fails
to file a return, remits amounts deducted and withheld late, or fails to remit
amounts deducted and withheld as required under this section, the Tax
Administrator of a municipal corporation may impose the following applicable
penalty:
      (1)   For the late remittance of, or failure to remit, tax deducted and
withheld under this section, a penalty equal to fifty per cent of the tax
deducted and withheld;
      (2)   For the failure to file, or the late filing of, a monthly or annual
return, a penalty of five hundred dollars for each return not filed or filed
late. Interest shall accrue on past due amounts deducted and withheld at the
rate prescribed in section 5703.47 of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (I)   Amounts deducted and withheld on behalf of a municipal corporation
shall be allowed as a credit against payment of the tax imposed by the
municipal corporation and shall be treated as taxes paid for purposes of
section
94.5.07 of this Chapter. This division applies only to the person for whom the
amount is deducted and withheld.
   (J)   The Tax Administrator shall prescribe the forms of the receipts and
returns required under this section. (Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.06 INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX.
§ 94.5.061 DETERMINING MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME FOR TAXPAYERS WHO ARE NOT
INDIVIDUALS.
   "Municipal Taxable Income" for a taxpayer who is not an individual for the
Municipality is calculated as follows:
   (A)   "Income" reduced by "Exempt Income" to the extent otherwise included
in income, multiplied by apportionment, further reduced by any "Pre-2017 Net
Operating Loss Carryforward" equals "Municipal Taxable Income".
      (1)   "Income" for a taxpayer that is not an individual means the "Net
Profit" of the taxpayer.
         (i)   "Net Profit" for a person other than an individual is defined in
Section
94.5.03(23).
         (ii)   "Adjusted Federal Taxable Income" is defined in Section
94.5.03(1) of this Chapter.
      (2)   "Exempt Income" is defined in Section
94.5.03(11) of this Chapter.
      (3)   "Apportionment" means the apportionment as determined by Section
94.5.062 of this Chapter.
      (4)   "Pre-2017 Net Operating Loss Carryforward" is defined in Section
94.5.03 (32) of this Chapter. (Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.062 NET PROFIT; INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX; ALTERNATIVE
APPORTIONMENT.
   This section applies to any taxpayer engaged in a business or profession in
the Municipality unless the taxpayer is an individual who resides in the
Municipality or the taxpayer is an electric company, combined company, or
telephone company that is subject to and required to file reports under Chapter
5745 of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (A)   Net profit from a business or profession conducted both within and
without the boundaries of the Municipality shall be considered as having a
taxable situs in the Municipality for purposes of municipal income taxation in
the same proportion as the average ratio of the following:
      (1)   The average original cost of the real property and tangible
personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the business or profession
in the Municipality during the taxable period to the average original cost of
all of the real and tangible personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in
the business or profession during the same period, wherever situated.
         As used in the preceding paragraph, tangible personal or real property
shall include property rented or leased by the taxpayer and the value of such
property shall be determined by multiplying the annual rental thereon by eight;
      (2)   Wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during the taxable
period to individuals employed in the business or profession for services
performed in the Municipality to wages, salaries, and other compensation paid
during the same period to individuals employed in the business or profession,
wherever the individual's services are performed, excluding compensation from
which taxes are not required to be withheld under section
94.5.052 of this Chapter;
      (3)   Total gross receipts of the business or profession from sales and
rentals made and services performed during the taxable period in the
Municipality to total gross receipts of the business or profession during the
same period from sales, rentals, and services, wherever made or performed.
   (B)   (1)   If the apportionment factors described in division (A) of this
section do not fairly represent the extent of a taxpayer's business activity in
the Municipality, the taxpayer may request, or the Tax Administrator of the
Municipality may require, that the taxpayer use, with respect to all or any
portion of the income of the taxpayer, an alternative apportionment method
involving one or more of the following:
         (a)   Separate accounting;
         (b)   The exclusion of one or more of the factors;
         (c)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors that would
provide for a more fair apportionment of the income of the taxpayer to the
Municipality;
         (d)   A modification of one or more of the factors.
      (2)   A taxpayer request to use an alternative apportionment method shall
be in writing and shall accompany a tax return, timely filed appeal of an
assessment, or timely filed amended tax return. The taxpayer may use the
requested alternative method unless the Tax Administrator denies the request in
an assessment issued within the period prescribed by division (A) of Section
94.5.19 of this Chapter.
      (3)   A Tax Administrator may require a taxpayer to use an alternative
apportionment method as described in division (B)(1) of this section only by
issuing an assessment to the taxpayer within the period prescribed by division
(A) of Section
94.5.19 of this Chapter.
      (4)   Nothing in division (B) of this section nullifies or otherwise
affects any alternative apportionment arrangement approved by a Tax
Administrator or otherwise agreed upon by both the Tax Administrator and
taxpayer before January 1, 2016.
   (C)   As used in division (A)(2) of this section, "wages, salaries, and
other compensation" includes only wages, salaries, or other compensation paid
to an employee for services performed at any of the following locations:
      (1)   A location that is owned, controlled, or used by, rented to, or
under the possession of one of the following:
         (a)   The employer;
         (b)   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of the employer, or a
related member of such a vendor, customer, client, or patient;
         (c)   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of a person described in
division (C)(1)(b) of this section, or a related member of such a vendor,
customer, client, or patient.
      (2)   Any location at which a trial, appeal, hearing, investigation,
inquiry, review, court-martial, or similar administrative, judicial, or
legislative matter or proceeding is being conducted, provided that the
compensation is paid for services performed for, or on behalf of, the employer
or that the employee's presence at the location directly or indirectly benefits
the employer;
      (3)   Any other location, if the Tax Administrator determines that the
employer directed the employee to perform the services at the other location in
lieu of a location described in division (C)(1) or (2) of this section solely
in order to avoid or reduce the employer's municipal income tax liability. If a
Tax Administrator makes such a determination, the employer may dispute the
determination by establishing, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Tax
Administrator's determination was unreasonable.
   (D)   For the purposes of division (A)(3) of this section, receipts from
sales and rentals made and services performed shall be sitused to a municipal
corporation as follows:
      (1)   Gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property shall be
sitused to the municipal corporation in which the sale originated. For the
purposes of this division, a sale of property originates in a municipal
corporation if, regardless of where title passes, the property meets any of the
following criteria:
         (a)   The property is shipped to or delivered within the municipal
corporation from a stock of goods located within the municipal corporation.
         (b)   The property is delivered within the municipal corporation from
a location outside the municipal corporation, provided the taxpayer is
regularly engaged through its own employees in the solicitation or promotion of
sales within such municipal corporation and the sales result from such
solicitation or promotion.
      (c)   The property is shipped from a place within the municipal
corporation to purchasers outside the municipal corporation, provided that the
taxpayer is not, through its own employees, regularly engaged in the
solicitation or promotion of sales at the place where delivery is made.
      (2)   Gross receipts from the sale of services shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation to the extent that such services are performed in the
municipal corporation.
      (3)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from the sale of
real property located in the municipal corporation shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation.
      (4)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from rents and
royalties from real property located in the municipal corporation shall be
sitused to the municipal corporation.
      (5)   Gross receipts from rents and royalties from tangible personal
property shall be sitused to the municipal corporation based upon the extent to
which the tangible personal property is used in the municipal corporation.
   (E)   The net profit received by an individual taxpayer from the rental of
real estate owned directly by the individual or by a disregarded entity owned
by the individual shall be subject to tax only by the municipal corporation in
which the property generating the net profit is located and the municipal
corporation in which the individual taxpayer that receives the net profit
resides.
   A municipal corporation shall allow such taxpayers to elect to use separate
accounting for the purpose of calculating net profit sitused under this
division to the municipal corporation in which the property is located.
   (F)   (1)   Except as provided in division (F)(2) of this section,
commissions received by a real estate agent or broker relating to the sale,
purchase, or lease of real estate shall be sitused to the municipal corporation
in which the real estate is located. Net profit reported by the real estate
agent or broker shall be allocated to a municipal corporation based upon the
ratio of the commissions the agent or broker received from the sale, purchase,
or lease of real estate located in the municipal corporation to the commissions
received from the sale, purchase, or lease of real estate everywhere in the
taxable year.
      (2)   An individual who is a resident of a municipal corporation that
imposes a municipal income tax shall report the individual's net profit from
all real estate activity on the individual's annual tax return for that
municipal corporation. The individual may claim a credit for taxes the
individual paid on such net profit to another municipal corporation to the
extent that such credit is allowed under Section
94.5.081 of this Chapter.
   (G)   If, in computing a taxpayer's adjusted federal taxable income, the
taxpayer deducted any amount with respect to a stock option granted to an
employee, and if the employee is not required to include in the employee's
income any such amount or a portion thereof because it is exempted from
taxation under divisions (11)(L) and (34)(A)(iv) of Section
94.5.03 of this Chapter, by a municipal corporation to which the taxpayer has
apportioned a portion of its net profit, the taxpayer shall add the amount that
is exempt from taxation to the taxpayer's net profit that was apportioned to
that municipal corporation. In no case shall a taxpayer be required to add to
its net profit that was apportioned to that municipal corporation any amount
other than the amount upon which the employee would be required to pay tax were
the amount related to the stock option not exempted from taxation.
   This division applies solely for the purpose of making an adjustment to the
amount of a taxpayer's net profit that was apportioned to a municipal
corporation under this section.
   (H)   When calculating the ratios described in division (A) of this section
for the purposes of that division or division (B) of this section, the owner of
a disregarded entity shall include in the owner's ratios the property, payroll,
and gross receipts of such disregarded entity.
(Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.063 CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Affiliated group of corporations" means an affiliated group as
defined in section 1504 of the Internal Revenue Code, except that, if such a
group includes at least one incumbent local exchange carrier that is primarily
engaged in the business of providing local exchange telephone service in this
state, the affiliated group shall not include any incumbent local exchange
carrier that would otherwise be included in the group.
      (2)   "Consolidated federal income tax return" means a consolidated
return filed for federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 1501 of the
Internal Revenue Code.
      (3)   "Consolidated federal taxable income" means the consolidated
taxable income of an affiliated group of corporations, as computed for the
purposes of filing a consolidated federal income tax return, before
consideration of net operating losses or special deductions. "Consolidated
federal taxable income" does not include income or loss of an incumbent local
exchange carrier that is excluded from the affiliated group under division (A)
(1) of this section.
      (4)   "Incumbent local exchange carrier" has the same meaning as in
section 4927.01 of the Revised Code.
      (5)   "Local exchange telephone service" has the same meaning as in
section 5727.01 of the Revised Code.
   (B)   (1)   For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016, a
taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations may elect to
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year if at least
one member of the affiliated group of corporations is subject to the municipal
income tax in that taxable year and if the affiliated group of corporations
filed a consolidated federal income tax return with respect to that taxable
year.
         (a)   The election is binding for a five-year period beginning with
the first taxable year of the initial election unless a change in the reporting
method is required under federal law.
         (b)   The election continues to be binding for each subsequent five-
year period unless the taxpayer elects to discontinue filing consolidated
municipal income tax returns under division (B)(2) of this section; or
         (c)   A taxpayer receives permission from the Tax Administrator. The
Tax Administrator shall approve such a request for good cause shown.
      (2)   An election to discontinue filing consolidated municipal income tax
returns under this section must be made in the first year following the last
year of a five-year consolidated municipal income tax return election period in
effect under division (B)(1) of this section.
         The election to discontinue filing a consolidated municipal income tax
return is binding for a five-year period beginning with the first taxable year
of the election.
      (3)   An election made under division (B)(1) or (2) of this section is
binding on all members of the affiliated group of corporations subject to a
municipal income tax.
   (C)   A taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations
that filed a consolidated federal income tax return for a taxable year shall
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for that taxable year if the
Tax Administrator determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, that
intercompany transactions have not been conducted at arm's length and that
there has been a distortive shifting of income or expenses with regard to
allocation of net profits to the municipal corporation. A taxpayer that is
required to file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year
shall file a consolidated municipal income tax return for all subsequent
taxable years unless the taxpayer requests and receives written permission from
the Tax Administrator to file a separate return or a taxpayer has experienced a
change in circumstances.
   (D)   A taxpayer shall prepare a consolidated municipal income tax return in
the same manner as is required under the United States Department of Treasury
regulations that prescribe procedures for the preparation of the consolidated
federal income tax return required to be filed by the common parent of the
affiliated group of which the taxpayer is a member.
   (E)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (E)(2), (3), and (4)
of this section, corporations that file a consolidated municipal income tax
return shall compute adjusted federal taxable income, as defined in section
94.5.03(1) of this Chapter, by substituting "consolidated federal taxable
income" for "federal taxable income" wherever "federal taxable income" appears
in that division and by substituting "an affiliated group of corporation's" for
"a C corporation's" wherever "a C corporation's" appears in that division.
      (2)   No corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return
shall make any adjustment otherwise required under division (1) of 94.5.03 of
this Chapter to the extent that the item of income or deduction otherwise
subject to the adjustment has been eliminated or consolidated in the
computation of consolidated federal taxable income.
      (3)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having at least
eighty per cent of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled,
directly or indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in
that affiliated group's consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year,
the corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return shall do one
of the following with respect to that pass-through entity's net profit or loss
for that taxable year:
         (a)   Exclude the pass-through entity's net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in Section
94.5.062 of this Chapter, exclude the property, payroll, and gross receipts of
the pass-through entity in the computation of the affiliated group's net profit
sitused to a municipal corporation. If the entity's net profit or loss is so
excluded, the entity shall be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the
basis of the entity's net profits that would otherwise be included in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
         (b)   Include the pass-through entity's net profit or loss in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in Section
94.5.062 of this Chapter, include the property, payroll, and gross receipts of
the pass-through entity in the computation of the affiliated group's net profit
sitused to a municipal corporation. If the entity's net profit or loss is so
included, the entity shall not be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on
the basis of the entity's net profits that are included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
      (4)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having less than
eighty per cent of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled,
directly or indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in
that affiliated group's consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year,
all of the following shall apply:
         (a)   The corporation filing the consolidated municipal income tax
return shall exclude the pass-through entity's net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purposes of making the computations required in Section
94.5.062 of this Chapter, exclude the property, payroll, and gross receipts of
the pass-through entity in the computation of the affiliated group's net profit
sitused to a municipal corporation;
         (b)   The pass-through entity shall be subject to municipal income
taxation as a separate taxpayer in accordance with this chapter on the basis of
the entity's net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
   (F)   Corporations filing a consolidated municipal income tax return shall
make the computations required under Section
94.5.062 of this Chapter by substituting "consolidated federal taxable income
attributable to" for "net profit from" wherever "net profit from" appears in
that section and by substituting "affiliated group of corporations" for
"taxpayer" wherever "taxpayer" appears in that section.
   (G)   Each corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return is
jointly and severally liable for any tax, interest, penalties, fines, charges,
or other amounts imposed by a municipal corporation in accordance with this
chapter on the corporation, an affiliated group of which the corporation is a
member for any portion of the taxable year, or any one or more members of such
an affiliated group.
   (H)   Corporations and their affiliates that made an election or entered
into an agreement with a municipal corporation before January 1, 2016, to file
a consolidated or combined tax return with such municipal corporation may
continue to file consolidated or combined tax returns in accordance with such
election or agreement for taxable years beginning on and after January 1, 2016.
(Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.064 TAX CREDIT FOR BUSINESSES THAT FOSTER NEW JOBS IN OHIO.
   The Municipality, by Ordinance, may grant a refundable or nonrefundable
credit against its tax on income to a taxpayer to foster job creation in the
Municipality. If a credit is granted under this section, it shall be measured
as a percentage of the new income tax revenue the Municipality derives from new
employees of the taxpayer and shall be for a term not exceeding fifteen years.
Before the Municipality passes an ordinance granting a credit, the Municipality
and the taxpayer shall enter into an agreement specifying all the conditions of
the credit.
(Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.065 TAX CREDITS TO FOSTER JOB RETENTION.
   The Municipality, by Ordinance, may grant a refundable or nonrefundable
credit against its tax on income to a taxpayer for the purpose of fostering job
retention in the Municipality. If a credit is granted under this section, it
shall be measured as a percentage of the income tax revenue the Municipality
derives from the retained employees of the taxpayer, and shall be for a term
not exceeding fifteen years. Before the Municipality passes an ordinance
allowing such a credit, the Municipality and the taxpayer shall enter into an
agreement specifying all the conditions of the credit. (Ord. 3572. Passed 11-
24-15.)
§ 94.5.07 DECLARATION OF ESTIMATED TAX.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Estimated taxes" means the amount that the taxpayer reasonably
estimates to be the taxpayer's tax liability for a municipal corporation's
income tax for the current taxable year.
      (2)   "Tax liability" means the total taxes due to a municipal
corporation for the taxable year, after allowing any credit to which the
taxpayer is entitled, and after applying any estimated tax payment, withholding
payment, or credit from another taxable year.
   (B)   (1)   Every taxpayer shall make a declaration of estimated taxes for
the current taxable year, on the form prescribed by the Tax Administrator, if
the amount payable as estimated taxes is at least two hundred dollars. For the
purposes of this section:
         (a)   Taxes withheld from qualifying wages shall be considered as paid
to the municipal corporation for which the taxes were withheld in equal amounts
on each payment date. If the taxpayer establishes the dates on which all
amounts were actually withheld, the amounts withheld shall be considered as
paid on the dates on which the amounts were actually withheld.
         (b)   An overpayment of tax applied as a credit to a subsequent
taxable year is deemed to be paid on the date of the postmark stamped on the
cover in which the payment is mailed or, if the payment is made by electronic
funds transfer, the date the payment is submitted. As used in this division,
"date of the postmark" means, in the event there is more than one date on the
cover, the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
         (c)   A taxpayer having a taxable year of less than twelve months
shall make a declaration under rules prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
         (d)   Taxes withheld by a casino operator or by a lottery sales agent
under section 718.031 of the Ohio Revised Code are deemed to be paid to the
municipal corporation for which the taxes were withheld on the date the taxes
are withheld from the taxpayer's winnings.
      (2)   Taxpayers filing joint returns shall file joint declarations of
estimated taxes.
      (3)   The declaration of estimated taxes shall be filed on or before the
date prescribed for the filing of municipal income tax returns under division
(G) of Section
94.5.091 of this Chapter or on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month
of the first taxable year after the taxpayer becomes subject to tax for the
first time.
      (4)   Taxpayers reporting on a fiscal year basis shall file a declaration
on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the beginning of each
fiscal year or period.
      (5)   The original declaration or any subsequent amendment may be
increased or decreased on or before any subsequent quarterly payment day as
provided in this section.
   (C)   (1)   The required portion of the tax liability for the taxable year
that shall be paid through estimated taxes made payable to the Municipality or
Tax Administrator, including the application of tax refunds to estimated taxes
and withholding on or before the applicable payment date, shall be as follows:
         (a)   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, twenty-two and one-half per cent of the tax
liability for the taxable year;
         (b)   On or before the fifteenth day of the sixth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, forty-five per cent of the tax liability for the
taxable year;
         (c)   On or before the fifteenth day of the ninth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, sixty-seven and one-half per cent of the tax
liability for the taxable year;
         (d)   On or before the fifteenth day of the twelfth month of the
taxable year, ninety per cent of the tax liability for the taxable year.
      (2)   A taxpayer may amend a declaration under rules prescribed by the
Tax Administrator. When an amended declaration has been filed, the unpaid
balance shown due on the amended declaration shall be paid in equal
installments on or before the remaining payment dates. The amended declaration
must be filed on the next applicable due date as outlined in (C)(1)(a) through
(d) of this section.
      (3)   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month of the year
following that for which the declaration or amended declaration was filed, an
annual return shall be filed and any balance which may be due shall be paid
with the return in accordance with section
94.5.091 of this Chapter.
         (a)   For taxpayers who are individuals, or who are not individuals
and are reporting and filing on a calendar year basis, the annual tax return is
due on the same date as the filing of the federal tax return, unless extended
pursuant to division (G) of section 5747.08 of the Revised Code.
         (b)   For taxpayers who are not individuals, and are reporting and
filing on a fiscal year basis or any period other than a calendar year, the
annual return is due on the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the end
of the taxable year or period.
      (4)   An amended declaration is required whenever the taxpayer's
estimated tax liability changes during the taxable year. A change in estimated
tax liability may either increase or decrease the estimated tax liability for
the taxable year.
   (D)   (1)   In the case of any underpayment of any portion of a tax
liability, penalty and interest may be imposed pursuant to section
94.5.10 of this Chapter upon the amount of underpayment for the period of
underpayment, unless the underpayment is due to reasonable cause as described
in division (E) of this section. The amount of the underpayment shall be
determined as follows:
         (a)   For the first payment of estimated taxes each year, twenty-two
and one-half per cent of the tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by
the date prescribed for that payment;
         (b)   For the second payment of estimated taxes each year, forty-five
per cent of the tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date
prescribed for that payment;
         (c)   For the third payment of estimated taxes each year, sixty-seven
and one-half per cent of the tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by
the date prescribed for that payment;
         (d)   For the fourth payment of estimated taxes each year, ninety per
cent of the tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed
for that payment.
      (2)   The period of the underpayment shall run from the day the estimated
payment was required to be made to the date on which the payment is made. For
purposes of this section, a payment of estimated taxes on or before any payment
date shall be considered a payment of any previous underpayment only to the
extent the payment of estimated taxes exceeds the amount of the payment
presently required to be paid to avoid any penalty.
   (E)   An underpayment of any portion of tax liability determined under
division (D) of this section shall be due to reasonable cause and the penalty
imposed by this section shall not be added to the taxes for the taxable year if
any of the following apply:
      (1)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least ninety
per cent of the tax liability for the current taxable year, determined by
annualizing the income received during the year up to the end of the month
immediately preceding the month in which the payment is due.
      (2)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least one
hundred per cent of the tax liability shown on the return of the taxpayer for
the preceding taxable year, provided that the immediately preceding taxable
year reflected a period of twelve months and the taxpayer filed a return with
the municipal corporation under Section
94.5.091 of this Chapter for that year.
      (3)   The taxpayer is an individual who resides in the Municipality but
was not domiciled there on the first day of January of the calendar year that
includes the first day of the taxable year.
   (F)   A Tax Administrator may waive the requirement for filing a declaration
of estimated taxes for any class of taxpayers after finding that the waiver is
reasonable and proper in view of administrative costs and other factors. (Ord.
3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.08 CREDIT FOR TAX PAID.
§ 94.5.081 CREDIT FOR TAX PAID TO ANOTHER MUNICIPALITY.
   (A)   Every individual taxpayer who resides in the City but who received net
profits, qualified wages, commissions or other compensation for work done or
services performed or rendered outside of the City, if he has paid a municipal
income tax or Joint Economic Development District tax based on income, on such
net profits, qualified wages, commissions or other compensation in another
municipality, shall be allowed a credit for the amount so paid by him or in his
behalf in such municipality. The credit shall not exceed the tax assessed by
this Ordinance on such income earned in such other municipality or
municipalities where such tax is paid.
   (B)   Not withstanding the provisions contained in this Ordinance hereof, or
any other provisions inconsistent herewith, a claim for refund or credit under
this section shall be made in such manner as the Finance Director or his
delegate may, by regulation, provide.
(Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.082 REFUNDABLE CREDIT FOR QUALIFYING LOSS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Nonqualified deferred compensation plan" means a compensation plan
described in section 3121(v)(2)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (A)(2)(b) of this section,
"qualifying loss" means the excess, if any, of the total amount of compensation
the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred
compensation plan over the total amount of income the taxpayer has recognized
for federal income tax purposes for all taxable years on a cumulative basis as
compensation with respect to the taxpayer's receipt of money and property
attributable to distributions in connection with the nonqualified deferred
compensation plan.
         (b)   If, for one or more taxable years, the taxpayer has not paid to
one or more municipal corporations income tax imposed on the entire amount of
compensation the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan, then the "qualifying loss" is the product of the
amount resulting from the calculation described in division (A)(2)(a) of this
section computed without regard to division (A)(2)(b) of this section and a
fraction the numerator of which is the portion of such compensation on which
the taxpayer has paid income tax to one or more municipal corporations and the
denominator of which is the total amount of compensation the payment of which
is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
         (c)   With respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the
taxpayer sustains a qualifying loss only in the taxable year in which the
taxpayer receives the final distribution of money and property pursuant to that
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      (3)   "Qualifying tax rate" means the applicable tax rate for the taxable
year for the which the taxpayer paid income tax to a municipal corporation with
respect to any portion of the total amount of compensation the payment of which
is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan. If different
tax rates applied for different taxable years, then the "qualifying tax rate"
is a weighted average of those different tax rates. The weighted average shall
be based upon the tax paid to the municipal corporation each year with respect
to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, a refundable
credit shall be allowed against the income tax imposed by a municipal
corporation for each qualifying loss sustained by a taxpayer during the taxable
year. The amount of the credit shall be equal to the product of the qualifying
loss and the qualifying tax rate.
      (2)   A taxpayer shall claim the credit allowed under this section from
each municipal corporation to which the taxpayer paid municipal income tax with
respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan in one or more taxable
years.
      (3)   If a taxpayer has paid tax to more than one municipal corporation
with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the amount of the
credit that a taxpayer may claim from each municipal corporation shall be
calculated on the basis of each municipal corporation's proportionate share of
the total municipal corporation income tax paid by the taxpayer to all
municipal corporations with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation
plan.
      (4)   In no case shall the amount of the credit allowed under this
section exceed the cumulative income tax that a taxpayer has paid to a
municipal corporation for all taxable years with respect to the nonqualified
deferred compensation plan.
   (C)   (1)   For purposes of this section, municipal corporation income tax
that has been withheld with respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation
plan shall be considered to have been paid by the taxpayer with respect to the
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      (2)   Any municipal income tax that has been refunded or otherwise
credited for the benefit of the taxpayer with respect to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan shall not be considered to have been paid to the
municipal corporation by the taxpayer.
   (D)   The credit allowed under this section is allowed only to the extent
the taxpayer's qualifying loss is attributable to:
      (1)   The insolvency or bankruptcy of the employer who had established
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan; or
      (2)   The employee's failure or inability to satisfy all of the
employer's terms and conditions necessary to receive the nonqualified deferred
compensation.
(Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.083 CREDIT FOR PERSON WORKING IN JOINT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT OR
ZONE.
   A Municipality shall grant a credit against its tax on income to a resident
of the Municipality who works in a joint economic development zone created
under section 715.691 or a joint economic development district created under
section 715.70, 715.71, or 715.72 of the Ohio Revised Code to the same extent
that it grants a credit against its tax on income to its residents who are
employed in another municipal corporation, pursuant to Section
94.5.081 of this Chapter. (Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.084 CREDIT FOR TAX BEYOND STATUTE FOR OBTAINING REFUND.
   (A)   Income tax that has been deposited or paid to the Municipality, but
should have been deposited or paid to another municipal corporation, is
allowable by the Municipality as a refund, but is subject to the three-year
limitation on refunds as provided in Section
94.5.096 of this Chapter.
   (B)   Income tax that should have been deposited or paid to the
Municipality, but was deposited or paid to another municipal corporation, shall
be subject to collection and recovery by the Municipality. To the extent a
refund of such tax or withholding is barred by the limitation on refunds as
provided in section
94.5.096, the Municipality will allow a non-refundable credit equal to the tax
or withholding paid to the other municipality against the income tax the
Municipality claims is due. If the Municipality's tax rate is higher, the tax
representing the net difference of the tax rates is also subject to collection
by the Municipality, along with any penalty and interest accruing during the
period of nonpayment.
   (C)   No carryforward of credit will be permitted when the overpayment is
beyond the three-year limitation for refunding of same as provided in Section
94.5.096 of this Chapter.
   (D)   Nothing in this section requires a Municipality to allow credit for
tax paid to another municipal corporation if the Municipality has reduced
credit for tax paid to another municipal corporation. Section
94.5.081 of this Chapter regarding any limitation on credit shall prevail.
(Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.09 ANNUAL RETURN.
§ 94.5.091 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   An annual return with respect to the income tax levied on
Municipal Taxable Income by the Municipality shall be completed and filed by
every taxpayer for any taxable year for which the taxpayer is subject to the
tax, regardless of whether or not income tax is due.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall accept on behalf of all nonresident
individual taxpayers a return filed by an employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer located in the Municipality under subsection
94.5.051(C) of this Chapter when the nonresident individual taxpayer's sole
income subject to the tax is the qualifying wages reported by the employer,
agent of an employer, or other payer, and no additional tax is due to the
Municipality.
      (3)   All resident individual taxpayers, 18 years of age and older, shall
file an annual municipal income tax return with the Municipality, regardless of
income or liability.
   (B)   If an individual is deceased, any return or notice required of that
individual shall be completed and filed by that decedent's executor,
administrator, or other person charged with the property of that decedent.
   (C)   If an individual is unable to complete and file a return or notice
required by the Municipality in accordance with this chapter, the return or
notice required of that individual shall be completed and filed by the
individual's duly authorized agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary, or other
person charged with the care of the person or property of that individual. Such
duly authorized agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary, or other person
charged with the care of the person or property of that individual shall
provide, with the filing of the return, appropriate documentation to support
that they are authorized to file a return or notice on behalf of the taxpayer.
This notice shall include any legally binding authorizations, and contact
information including name, address, and phone number of the duly authorized
agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary, or other person.
   (D)   Returns or notices required of an estate or a trust shall be completed
and filed by the fiduciary of the estate or trust. Such fiduciary shall
provide, with the filing of the return, appropriate documentation to support
that they are authorized to file a return or notice on behalf of the taxpayer.
This notice shall include any legally binding authorizations, and contact
information including name, address, and phone number of the fiduciary.
   (E)   No municipal corporation shall deny spouses the ability to file a
joint return.
   (F)   (1)   Each return required to be filed under this section shall
contain the signature of the taxpayer or the taxpayer's duly authorized agent
and of the person who prepared the return for the taxpayer, and shall include
the taxpayer's social security number or taxpayer identification number. Each
return shall be verified by a declaration under penalty of perjury.
      (2)   A taxpayer who is an individual is required to include, with each
annual return, amended return, or request for refund required under this
section, copies of only the following documents: all of the taxpayer's Internal
Revenue Service form W-2, "Wage and Tax Statements," including all information
reported on the taxpayer's federal W-2, as well as taxable wages reported or
withheld for any municipal corporation; the taxpayer's Internal Revenue Service
form 1040 or, in the case of a return or request required by a qualified
municipal corporation, Ohio IT 1040; and, with respect to an amended tax return
or refund request, any other documentation necessary to support the refund
request or the adjustments made in the amended return. An individual taxpayer
who files the annual return required by this section electronically is not
required to provide paper copies of any of the foregoing to the Tax
Administrator unless the Tax Administrator requests such copies after the
return has been filed.
      (3)   A taxpayer that is not an individual is required to include, with
each annual net profit return, amended net profit return, or request for refund
required under this section, copies of only the following documents: the
taxpayer's Internal Revenue Service form 1041, form 1065, form 1120, form 1120-
REIT, form 1120F, or form 1120S, and, with respect to an amended tax return or
refund request, any other documentation necessary to support the refund request
or the adjustments made in the amended return.
      (4)   A taxpayer that is not an individual and that files an annual net
profit return electronically through the Ohio business gateway or in some other
manner shall either mail the documents required under this division to the Tax
Administrator at the time of filing or, if electronic submission is available,
submit the documents electronically through the Ohio business gateway or a
portal provided by Municipality. The department of taxation shall publish a
method of electronically submitting the documents required under this division
through the Ohio business gateway on or before January 1, 2016. The department
shall transmit all documents submitted electronically under this division to
the appropriate Tax Administrator.
      (5)   After a taxpayer files a tax return, the Tax Administrator shall
request, and the taxpayer shall provide, any information, statements, or
documents required by the Municipality to determine and verify the taxpayer's
municipal income tax liability. The requirements imposed under division (F) of
this section apply regardless of whether the taxpayer files on a generic form
or on a form prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
      (6)   Any other documentation, including schedules, other municipal
income tax returns, or other supporting documentation necessary to verify
credits, income, losses, or other pertinent factors on the return shall also be
included to avoid delay in processing, or disallowance by the Tax Administrator
of undocumented credits or losses.
   (G)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each
individual income tax return required to be filed under this section shall be
completed and filed as required by the Tax Administrator on or before the date
prescribed for the filing of state individual income tax returns under division
(G) of section 5747.08 of the Ohio Revised Code. The taxpayer shall complete
and file the return or notice on forms prescribed by the Tax Administrator or
on generic forms, together with remittance made payable to the Municipality or
Tax Administrator.
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each annual net
profit income tax return required to be filed under this section by a taxpayer
that is not an individual shall be completed and filed as required by the tax
administrator on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the
end of the taxpayer's taxable year or period. The taxpayer shall complete and
file the return or notice on forms prescribed by the tax administrator or on
generic forms, together with remittance made payable to the Municipality or Tax
Administrator.
         (c)   In the case of individual income tax return required to be filed
by an individual, and net profit income tax return required to be filed by a
taxpayer who is not an individual, no remittance is required if the amount
shown to be due is ten dollars or less.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator considers it necessary in order to ensure
the payment of the tax imposed by the Municipality in accordance with this
chapter, the Tax Administrator may require taxpayers to file returns and make
payments otherwise than as provided in this section, including taxpayers not
otherwise required to file annual returns.
      (3)   With respect to taxpayers to whom Section
94.5.092 of this Chapter applies, to the extent that any provision in this
division conflicts with any provision in Section
94.5.092 of this Chapter, the provision in Section
94.5.092 of this Chapter prevails.
   (H)   (1)   For taxable years beginning after 2015, the Municipality shall
not require a taxpayer to remit tax with respect to net profits if the amount
due is ten dollars or less.
      (2)   Any taxpayer not required to remit tax to the Municipality for a
taxable year pursuant to division (H)(1) of this section shall file with the
Municipality an annual net profit return under division (F)(3) and (4) of this
section.
   (I)   This division shall not apply to payments required to be made under
division (B)(1)(b) or (c) of Section
94.5.051 of this Chapter.
      (1)   If any report, claim, statement, or other document required to be
filed, or any payment required to be made, within a prescribed period or on or
before a prescribed date under this chapter is delivered after that period or
that to the Tax Administrator or other municipal official with which the
report, claim, statement, or other document is required to be filed, or to
which the payment is required to be made, the date of the postmark stamped on
the cover in which the report, claim, statement, or other document, or payment
is mailed shall be deemed to be the date of delivery or the date of payment.
"The date of postmark" means, in the event there is more than one date on the
cover, the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
      (2)   If a payment is required to be made by electronic funds transfer,
the payment is considered to be made when the payment is credited to an account
designated by the Tax Administrator for the receipt of tax payments, except
that, when a payment made by electronic funds transfer is delayed due to
circumstances not under the control of the taxpayer, the payment is considered
to be made when the taxpayer submitted the payment. For purposes of this
section, "submitted the payment" means the date which the taxpayer has
designated for the delivery of payment, which may or may not be the same date
as the date the payment was initiated by the taxpayer.
   (J)   The amounts withheld for the Municipality by an employer, the agent of
an employer, or other payer as described in section
94.5.051 of this Chapter shall be allowed to the recipient of the compensation
as credits against payment of the tax imposed on the recipient unless the
amounts withheld were not remitted to the Municipality and the recipient
colluded with the employer, agent, or other payer in connection with the
failure to remit the amounts withheld.
   (K)   Each return required by the Municipality to be filed in accordance
with this section shall include a box that the taxpayer may check to authorize
another person, including a tax return preparer who prepared the return, to
communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters pertaining to the return.
The return or instructions accompanying the return shall indicate that by
checking the box the taxpayer authorizes the Tax Administrator to contact the
preparer or other person concerning questions that arise during the examination
or other review of the return and authorizes the preparer or other person only
to provide the Tax Administrator with information that is missing from the
return, to contact the Tax Administrator for information about the examination
or other review of the return or the status of the taxpayer's refund or
payments, and to respond to notices about mathematical errors, offsets, or
return preparation that the taxpayer has received from the Tax Administrator
and has shown to the preparer or other person. Authorization by the taxpayer of
another person to communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters
pertaining to the return does not preclude the Tax Administrator from
contacting the taxpayer regarding such matters.
   (L)   The Tax Administrator of the Municipality shall accept for filing a
generic form of any income tax return, report, or document required by the
Municipality in accordance with this Chapter, provided that the generic form,
once completed and filed, contains all of the information required by
ordinances, resolutions, or rules adopted by the Municipality or Tax
Administrator, and provided that the taxpayer or tax return preparer filing the
generic form otherwise complies with the provisions of this Chapter and of the
Municipality's Ordinance or resolution governing the filing of returns,
reports, or documents.
   (M)   When income tax returns, reports, or other documents require the
signature of a tax return preparer, the Tax Administrator shall accept a
facsimile of such a signature in lieu of a manual signature.
   (N)   (1)   As used in this division, "worksite location" has the same
meaning as in section
94.5.052 of this chapter.
      (2)   A person may notify a tax administrator that the person does not
expect to be a taxpayer with respect to the municipal corporation for a taxable
year if both of the following conditions apply:
         (a)   The person was required to file a tax return with the municipal
corporation for the immediately preceding taxable year because the person
performed services at a worksite location within the municipal corporation, and
the person has filed all appropriate and required returns and remitted all
applicable income tax and withholding payments as provided by this chapter. The
tax administrator is not required to accept an affidavit from a taxpayer who
has not complied with the provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   The person no longer provides services in the municipal
corporation, and does not expect to be subject to the municipal corporation's
income tax for the taxable year.
            The person shall provide the notice in a signed affidavit that
briefly explains the person's circumstances, including the location of the
previous worksite location and the last date on which the person performed
services or made any sales within the municipal corporation. The affidavit also
shall include the following statement:
            "The affiant has no plans to perform any services within the
municipal corporation, make any sales in the municipal corporation, or
otherwise become subject to the tax levied by the municipal corporation during
the taxable year. If the affiant does become subject to the tax levied by the
municipal corporation for the taxable year, the affiant agrees to be considered
a taxpayer and to properly register as a taxpayer with the municipal
corporation, if such a registration is required by the municipal corporation's
resolutions, ordinances, or rules." The person shall sign the affidavit under
penalty of perjury.
         (c)   If a person submits an affidavit described in division (N)(2) of
this section, the tax administrator shall not require the person to file any
tax return for the taxable year unless the tax administrator possesses
information that conflicts with the affidavit or if the circumstances described
in the affidavit change, or the taxpayer has engaged in activity which results
in work being performed, services provided, sales made, or other activity that
results in municipal taxable income reportable to the Municipality in the
taxable year. It shall be the responsibility of the taxpayer to comply with the
provisions of this chapter relating to the reporting and filing of municipal
taxable income on an annual municipal income tax return, even if an affidavit
has been filed with the tax administrator for the taxable year. Nothing in
division (N) of this section prohibits the tax administrator from performing an
audit of the person. (Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.092 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX; INDIVIDUALS SERVING IN COMBAT ZONE.
   (A)   Each member of the national guard of any state and each member of a
reserve component of the armed forces of the United States called to active
duty pursuant to an executive order issued by the President of the United
States or an act of the Congress of the United States, and each civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the armed forces, may apply to the Tax Administrator of the
Municipality for both an extension of time for filing of the return and an
extension of time for payment of taxes required by the Municipality in
accordance with this chapter during the period of the member's or civilian's
duty service and for one hundred eighty days thereafter. The application shall
be filed on or before the one hundred eightieth day after the member's or
civilian's duty terminates. An applicant shall provide such evidence as the Tax
Administrator considers necessary to demonstrate eligibility for the extension.
   (B)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is
qualified for an extension under this section, the Tax Administrator shall
enter into a contract with the applicant for the payment of the tax in
installments that begin on the one hundred eighty-first day after the
applicant's active duty or service terminates. Except as provided in division
(B)(3) of this section, the Tax Administrator may prescribe such contract terms
as the Tax Administrator considers appropriate.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is qualified
for an extension under this section, the applicant shall neither be required to
file any return, report, or other tax document nor be required to pay any tax
otherwise due to the Municipality before the one hundred eighty-first day after
the applicant's active duty or service terminates.
      (3)   Taxes paid pursuant to a contract entered into under division (B)
(1) of this section are not delinquent. The Tax Administrator shall not require
any payments of penalties or interest in connection with those taxes for the
extension period.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this division denies to any person described in this
division the application of divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
      (2)   (a)   A qualifying taxpayer who is eligible for an extension under
the Internal Revenue Code shall receive both an extension of time in which to
file any return, report, or other tax document and an extension of time in
which to make any payment of taxes required by the Municipality in accordance
with this chapter. The length of any extension granted under division (C)(2)(a)
of this section shall be equal to the length of the corresponding extension
that the taxpayer receives under the Internal Revenue Code. As used in this
section, "qualifying taxpayer" means a member of the national guard or a member
of a reserve component of the armed forces of the United States called to
active duty pursuant to either an executive order issued by the President of
the United States or an act of the Congress of the United States, or a civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the armed forces.
         (b)   Taxes the payment of which is extended in accordance with
division (C)(2)(a) of this section are not delinquent during the extension
period. Such taxes become delinquent on the first day after the expiration of
the extension period if the taxes are not paid prior to that date. The Tax
Administrator shall not require any payment of penalties or interest in
connection with those taxes for the extension period. The Tax Administrator
shall not include any period of extension granted under division (C)(2)(a) of
this section in calculating the penalty or interest due on any unpaid tax.
   (D)   For each taxable year to which division (A), (B), or (C) of this
section applies to a taxpayer, the provisions of divisions (B)(2) and (3) or
(C) of this section, as applicable, apply to the spouse of that taxpayer if the
filing status of the spouse and the taxpayer is married filing jointly for that
year.
(Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.093 USE OF OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY; TYPES OF FILINGS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Any taxpayer subject to municipal income taxation with respect to the
taxpayer's net profit from a business or profession may file any municipal
income tax return or, estimated municipal income tax return, or extension for
filing a municipal income tax return, and may make payment of amounts shown to
be due on such returns, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
   (B)   Any employer, agent of an employer, or other payer may report the
amount of municipal income tax withheld from qualifying wages, and may make
remittance of such amounts, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
   (C)   Nothing in this section affects the due dates for filing employer
withholding tax returns or deposit of any required tax.
   (D)   The use of the Ohio Business Gateway by municipal corporations,
taxpayers, or other persons does not affect the legal rights of municipalities
or taxpayers as otherwise permitted by law. The State of Ohio shall not be a
party to the administration of municipal income taxes or to an appeal of a
municipal income tax matter, except as otherwise specifically provided by law.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting or removing the
authority of any municipal corporation to administer, audit, and enforce the
provisions of its municipal income tax.
(Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.094 EXTENSION OF TIME TO FILE.
   (A)   Any taxpayer that has duly requested an automatic six-month extension
for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax return shall automatically receive
an extension for the filing of a municipal income tax return. The extended due
date of the municipal income tax return shall be the fifteenth day of the tenth
month after the last day of the taxable year to which the return relates. For
tax years ending on or after January 11 2023, the extended due date of
municipal income tax return for a taxpayer that is not an individual shall be
the 15th day of the eleventh month after the last day of the taxable year to
which the return relates.
   (B)   Any taxpayer that qualifies for an automatic federal extension for a
period other than six-months for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax
return shall automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal
income tax return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return
shall be the same as that of the extended federal income tax return.
   (C)   A taxpayer that has not requested or received a six-month extension
for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax return may request that the tax
administrator grant the taxpayer a six-month extension of the date for filing
the taxpayer's municipal income tax return. If the request is received by the
tax administrator on or before the date the municipal income tax return is due,
the tax administrator shall grant the taxpayer's requested extension.
   (D)   An extension of time to file under this chapter is not an extension of
the time to pay any tax due unless the Tax Administrator grants an extension of
that date.
   (E)   If the State Tax Commissioner extends for all taxpayers the date for
filing state income tax returns under division (G) of section 5747.08 of the
Ohio Revised Code, a taxpayer shall automatically receive an extension for the
filing of a municipal income tax return. The extended due date of the municipal
income tax return shall be the same as the extended due date of the state
income tax return.
   (F)   If a taxpayer receives an extension for the filing of a municipal
income tax return under division (A), (B), (C), (D) or (E) of this section, the
tax administrator shall not make any inquiry or send any notice to the taxpayer
with regard to the return on or before the date the taxpayer files the return
or on or before the extended due date to file the return, whichever occurs
first.
      If a tax administrator violates division (F) of this section, the
municipal corporation shall reimburse the taxpayer for any reasonable costs
incurred to respond to such inquiry or notice, up to $150.
      Division (F) of this section does not apply to an extension received
under division (B) of this section if the tax administrator has actual
knowledge that the taxpayer failed to file for a federal extension as required
to receive the extension under division (B) of this section or failed to file
for an extension under division (C) of this section.
(Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15; Ord. 3759. Passed 11-28-23.)
§ 94.5.095 AMENDED RETURNS.
   (A)   (1)   A taxpayer shall file an amended return with the Tax
Administrator in such form as the Tax Administrator requires if any of the
facts, figures, computations, or attachments required in the taxpayer's annual
return to determine the tax due levied by the Municipality in accordance with
this chapter must be altered.
      (2)   Within sixty days after the final determination of any federal or
state tax liability affecting the taxpayer's municipal tax liability, that
taxpayer shall make and file an amended municipal return showing income subject
to the municipal income tax based upon such final determination of federal or
state tax liability, and pay any additional municipal income tax shown due
thereon or make a claim for refund of any overpayment, unless the tax or
overpayment is ten dollars or less.
      (3)   If a taxpayer intends to file an amended consolidated municipal
income tax return, or to amend its type of return from a separate return to a
consolidated return, based on the taxpayer's consolidated federal income tax
return, the taxpayer shall notify the Tax Administrator before filing the
amended return.
   (B)   (1)   In the case of an underpayment, the amended return shall be
accompanied by payment of any combined additional tax due together with any
penalty and interest thereon. If the combined tax shown to be due is ten
dollars or less, such amount need not accompany the amended return. Except as
provided under division (B)(2) of this section, the amended return shall not
reopen those facts, figures, computations, or attachments from a previously
filed return that are not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the
adjustment to the taxpayer's federal or state income tax return unless the
applicable statute of limitations for civil actions or prosecutions under
section
94.5.19 of this Chapter has not expired for a previously filed return.
      (2)   The additional tax to be paid shall not exceed the amount of tax
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations, and attachments were
reopened.
   (C)   (1)   In the case of an overpayment, a request for refund may be filed
under this division within the period prescribed by division (A)(2) of section
94.5.19 of this Chapter for filing the amended return even if it is filed
beyond the period prescribed in that division if it otherwise conforms to the
requirements of that division. If the amount of the refund is ten dollars or
less, no refund need be paid by the Municipality to the taxpayer. Except as set
forth in division (C)(2) of this section, a request filed under this division
shall claim refund of overpayments resulting from alterations to only those
facts, figures, computations, or attachments required in the taxpayer's annual
return that are affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to
the taxpayer's federal or state income tax return unless it is also filed
within the time prescribed in section
94.5.096 of this Chapter. Except as set forth in division (C)(2) of this
section, the request shall not reopen those facts, figures, computations, or
attachments that are not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the
adjustment to the taxpayer's federal or state income tax return.
      (2)   The amount to be refunded shall not exceed the amount of refund
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations, and attachments were
reopened. (Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.096 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a request for a refund, the Tax Administrator of the
Municipality, in accordance with this section, shall refund to employers,
agents of employers, other payers, or taxpayers, with respect to any income or
withholding tax levied by the Municipality:
      (1)   Overpayments of more than ten dollars;
       (2)   Amounts paid erroneously if the refund requested exceeds ten
dollars.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, returns setting
forth a request for refund shall be filed with the Tax Administrator, within
three years after the tax was due or paid, whichever is later. Any
documentation that substantiates the taxpayer's claim for a refund must be
included with the return filing. Failure to remit all documentation, including
schedules, other municipal income tax returns, or other supporting
documentation necessary to verify credits, income, losses or other pertinent
factors on the return will cause delay in processing, and / or disallowance of
undocumented credits or losses.
      (2)   On filing of the refund request, the Tax Administrator shall
determine the amount of refund due and certify such amount to the appropriate
municipal corporation official for payment. Except as provided in division (B)
(3) of this section, the administrator shall issue an assessment to any
taxpayer whose request for refund is fully or partially denied. The assessment
shall state the amount of the refund that was denied, the reasons for the
denial, and instructions for appealing the assessment.
      (3)   If a Tax Administrator denies in whole or in part a refund request
included within the taxpayer's originally filed annual income tax return, the
Tax Administrator shall notify the taxpayer, in writing, of the amount of the
refund that was denied, the reasons for the denial, and instructions for
requesting an assessment that may be appealed under Section
94.5.18 of this Chapter.
   (C)   A request for a refund that is received after the last day for filing
specified in division (B) of this section shall be considered to have been
filed in a timely manner if any of the following situations exist:
      (1)   The request is delivered by the postal service, and the earliest
postal service postmark on the cover in which the request is enclosed is not
later than the last day for filing the request.
      (2)   The request is delivered by the postal service, the only postmark
on the cover in which the request is enclosed was affixed by a private postal
meter, the date of that postmark is not later than the last day for filing the
request, and the request is received within seven days of such last day.
      (3)   The request is delivered by the postal service, no postmark date
was affixed to the cover in which the request is enclosed or the date of the
postmark so affixed is not legible, and the request is received within seven
days of the last day for making the request.
   (D) Interest shall be allowed and paid on any overpayment by a taxpayer of
any municipal income tax obligation from the date of the overpayment until the
date of the refund of the overpayment, except that if any overpayment is
refunded within ninety days after the final filing date of the annual return or
ninety days after the completed return is filed, whichever is later, no
interest shall be allowed on the refund. For the purpose of computing the
payment of interest on amounts overpaid, no amount of tax for any taxable year
shall be considered to have been paid before the date on which the return on
which the tax is reported is due, without regard to any extension of time for
filing that return. Interest shall be paid at the interest rate described in
division (A)(4) of Section
94.5.10 of this Chapter.
   (E)   As used in this section, "withholding tax" has the same meaning as in
section
94.5.10 of this Chapter. (Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.10 PENALTY, INTEREST, FEES, AND CHARGES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Applicable law" means this chapter, the resolutions, ordinances,
codes, directives, instructions, and rules adopted by the Municipality provided
such resolutions, ordinances, codes, directives, instructions, and rules impose
or directly or indirectly address the levy, payment, remittance, or filing
requirements of a municipal income tax.
      (2)   "Federal short-term rate" means the rate of the average market
yield on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States with remaining
periods to maturity of three years or less, as determined under section 1274 of
the Internal Revenue Code, for July of the current year.
      (3)   "Income tax," "estimated income tax," and "withholding tax" mean
any income tax, estimated income tax, and withholding tax imposed by a
municipal corporation pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before
January 1, 2016.
      (4)   "Interest rate as described in division (A) of this section" means
the federal short-term rate, rounded to the nearest whole number per cent, plus
five per cent. The rate shall apply for the calendar year next following the
July of the year in which the federal short-term rate is determined in
accordance with division (A)(2) of this section.
      (5)   "Return" includes any tax return, report, reconciliation, schedule,
and other document required to be filed with a Tax Administrator or municipal
corporation by a taxpayer, employer, any agent of the employer, or any other
payer pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before January 1, 2016.
      (6)   "Unpaid estimated income tax" means estimated income tax due but
not paid by the date the tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (7)   "Unpaid income tax" means income tax due but not paid by the date
the income tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (8)   "Unpaid withholding tax" means withholding tax due but not paid by
the date the withholding tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (9)   "Withholding tax" includes amounts an employer, any agent of an
employer, or any other payer did not withhold in whole or in part from an
employee's qualifying wages, but that, under applicable law, the employer,
agent, or other payer is required to withhold from an employee's qualifying
wages.
   (B)   (1)   This section shall apply to the following:
         (a)   Any return required to be filed under applicable law for taxable
years beginning on or after January 1, 2016;
         (b)   Income tax, estimated income tax, and withholding tax required
to be paid or remitted to the Municipality on or after January 1, 2016 for
taxable years beginning on or after January 1,
      (2)   This section does not apply to returns required to be filed or
payments required to be made before January 1, 2016, regardless of the filing
or payment date. Returns required to be filed or payments required to be made
before January 1, 2016, but filed or paid after that date shall be subject to
the ordinances or rules,, as adopted from time to time before January 1, 2016
of this Municipality..
   (C)   The Municipality shall impose on a taxpayer, employer, any agent of
the employer, and any other payer, and will attempt to collect, the interest
amounts and penalties prescribed in this section when the taxpayer, employer,
any agent of the employer, or any other payer for any reason fails, in whole or
in part, to make to the Municipality timely and full payment or remittance of
income tax, estimated income tax, or withholding tax or to file timely with the
Municipality any return required to be filed.
      (1)   Interest shall be imposed at the rate defined as "interest rate as
described in division (A) of this section", per annum, on all unpaid income
tax, unpaid estimated income tax, and unpaid withholding tax. This imposition
of interest shall be assessed per month, or fraction of a month.
      (2)   With respect to unpaid income tax and unpaid estimated income tax,
a penalty equal to fifteen percent of the amount not timely paid shall be
imposed.
      (3)   With respect to any unpaid withholding tax, a penalty equal to
fifty percent of the amount not timely paid shall be imposed.
      (4)   (a)   For tax years ending on or before December 31, 2022, with
respect to returns other than estimated income tax returns, the Municipality
shall impose a monthly penalty of twenty-five dollars for each failure to
timely file each return, regardless of the liability shown thereon for each
month, or any fraction thereof, during which the return remains unfiled
regardless of the liability shown thereon. The penalty shall not exceed a total
of one hundred fifty dollars in assessed penalty for each failure to timely
file a return.
         (b)   For tax years ending on or after January 1, 2023, with respect
to returns other than estimated income tax returns, the municipality may impose
a penalty not exceeding $25 for each failure to timely file each return,
regardless of the liability shown thereon, except that the municipality shall
abate or refund the penalty assessed on a taxpayer's first failure to timely
file a return after the taxpayer files that return.
   (D)   With respect to income taxes, estimated income taxes, withholding
taxes, and returns, the Municipality shall not impose, seek to collect, or
collect any penalty, amount of interest, charges or additional fees not
described in this section.
   (E)   With respect to income taxes, estimated income taxes, withholding
taxes, and returns, the Municipality shall not refund or credit any penalty,
amount of interest, charges, or additional fees that were properly imposed or
collected before January 1, 2016.
   (F)   The Tax Administrator may, in the Tax Administrator's sole discretion,
abate or partially abate penalties or interest imposed under this section when
the Tax Administrator deems such abatement or partial abatement to be
appropriate. Such abatement or partial abatement shall be properly documented
and maintained on the record of the taxpayer who received benefit of such
abatement or partial abatement.
   (G)   The Municipality may impose on the taxpayer, employer, any agent of
the employer, or any other payer the Municipality's post-judgment collection
costs and fees, including attorney's fees.
(Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15; Ord. 3759. Passed 11-28-23.)
§ 94.5.11 AUDIT.
   (A)   At or before the commencement of an audit, as defined in Section
94.5.03(3) of this Chapter, the Tax Administrator shall provide to the taxpayer
a written description of the roles of the Tax Administrator and of the taxpayer
during an audit and a statement of the taxpayer's rights, including any right
to obtain a refund of an overpayment of tax. At or before the commencement of
an audit, the Tax Administrator shall inform the taxpayer when the audit is
considered to have commenced.
   (B)   Except in cases involving suspected criminal activity, the Tax
Administrator shall conduct an audit of a taxpayer during regular business
hours and after providing reasonable notice to the taxpayer. A taxpayer who is
unable to comply with a proposed time for an audit on the grounds that the
proposed time would cause inconvenience or hardship must offer reasonable
alternative dates for the audit.
   (C)   At all stages of an audit by the Tax Administrator, a taxpayer is
entitled to be assisted or represented by an attorney, accountant, bookkeeper,
or other tax practitioner. The Tax Administrator shall prescribe a form by
which a taxpayer may designate such a person to assist or represent the
taxpayer in the conduct of any proceedings resulting from actions by the Tax
Administrator. If a taxpayer has not submitted such a form, the Tax
Administrator may accept other evidence, as the Tax Administrator considers
appropriate, that a person is the authorized representative of a taxpayer.
      A taxpayer may refuse to answer any questions asked by the person
conducting an audit until the taxpayer has an opportunity to consult with the
taxpayer's attorney, accountant, bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner. This
division does not authorize the practice of law by a person who is not an
attorney.
   (D)   A taxpayer may record, electronically or otherwise, the audit
examination.
   (E)   The failure of the Tax Administrator to comply with a provision of
this section shall neither excuse a taxpayer from payment of any taxes owed by
the taxpayer nor cure any procedural defect in a taxpayer's case.
   (F)   If the Tax Administrator fails to substantially comply with the
provisions of this section, the Tax Administrator, upon application by the
taxpayer, shall excuse the taxpayer from penalties and interest arising from
the audit.
(Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.12 ROUNDING.
   A person may round to the nearest whole dollar all amounts the person is
required to enter on any return, report, voucher, or other document required
under this chapter. Any fractional part of a dollar that equals or exceeds
fifty cents shall be rounded to the next whole dollar, and any fractional part
of a dollar that is less than fifty cents shall be dropped, rounding down to
the nearest whole dollar. If a person chooses to round amounts entered on a
document, the person shall round all amounts entered on the document.
(Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.13 AUTHORITY AND POWERS OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
94.5.131 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS OF THE TAX
ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Tax Administrator has the authority to perform all duties and functions
necessary and appropriate to implement the provisions of this Chapter,
including without limitation:
   (A)   Exercise all powers whatsoever of an inquisitorial nature as provided
by law, including, the right to inspect books, accounts, records, memorandums,
and federal and state income tax returns, to examine persons under oath, to
issue orders or subpoenas for the production of books, accounts, papers,
records, documents, and testimony, to take depositions, to apply to a court for
attachment proceedings as for contempt, to approve vouchers for the fees of
officers and witnesses, and to administer oaths; provided that the powers
referred to in this division of this section shall be exercised by the Tax
Administrator only in connection with the performance of the duties
respectively assigned to the Tax Administrator under a municipal corporation
income tax ordinance or resolution adopted in accordance with this chapter;
   (B)   Appoint agents and prescribe their powers and duties;
   (C)   Confer and meet with officers of other municipal corporations and
states and officers of the United States on any matters pertaining to their
respective official duties as provided by law;
   (D)   Exercise the authority provided by law, including orders from
bankruptcy courts, relative to remitting or refunding taxes, including
penalties and interest thereon, illegally or erroneously imposed or collected,
or for any other reason overpaid, and, in addition, the Tax Administrator may
investigate any claim of overpayment and make a written statement of the Tax
Administrator's findings, and, if the Tax Administrator finds that there has
been an overpayment, approve and issue a refund payable to the taxpayer, the
taxpayer's assigns, or legal representative as provided in this chapter;
   (E)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to consenting to the
compromise and settlement of tax claims;
   (F)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to the use of
alternative apportionment methods by taxpayers in accordance with section
94.5.062 of this Chapter;
   (G)   Make all tax findings, determinations, computations, assessments and
orders the Tax Administrator is by law authorized and required to make and,
pursuant to time limitations provided by law, on the Tax Administrator's own
motion, review, redetermine, or correct any tax findings, determinations,
computations, assessments or orders the Tax Administrator has made, but the Tax
Administrator shall not review, redetermine, or correct any tax finding,
determination, computation, assessment or order which the Tax Administrator has
made for which an appeal has been filed with the Local Board of Tax Review or
other appropriate tribunal, unless such appeal or application is withdrawn by
the appellant or applicant, is dismissed, or is otherwise final;
   (H)   Destroy any or all returns or other tax documents in the manner
authorized by law;
   (I)   Enter into an agreement with a taxpayer to simplify the withholding
obligations described in section
94.5.051 of this Chapter.
(Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.132 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; COMPROMISE OF CLAIM AND PAYMENT OVER
TIME.
   (A)   As used in this section, "claim" means a claim for an amount payable
to the Municipality that arises pursuant to the municipal income tax imposed in
accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   The Tax Administrator may do either of the following if such action is
in the best interests of the Municipality:
      (1)   Compromise a claim;
      (2)   Extend for a reasonable period the time for payment of a claim by
agreeing to accept monthly or other periodic payments, upon such terms and
conditions as the Tax Administrator may require.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator's rejection of a compromise or payment-over-time
agreement proposed by a person with respect to a claim shall not be appealable.
   (D)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a claim
shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of only the parties to the
compromise or agreement, and shall not extinguish or otherwise affect the
liability of any other person.
   (E)   (1)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a
claim shall be void if the taxpayer defaults under the compromise or agreement
or if the compromise or agreement was obtained by fraud or by misrepresentation
of a material fact. Any amount that was due before the compromise or agreement
and that is unpaid shall remain due, and any penalties or interest that would
have accrued in the absence of the compromise or agreement shall continue to
accrue and be due.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall have sole discretion to determine
whether or not penalty, interest, charges or applicable fees will be assessed
through the duration of any compromise or payment-over-time agreement.
   (F)   The Tax Administrator may require that the taxpayer provide detailed
financial documentation and information, in order to determine whether or not a
payment-over-time agreement will be authorized. The taxpayer's failure to
provide the necessary and required information by the Tax Administrator shall
preclude consideration of a payment-over-time agreement.
(Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.133 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; RIGHT TO EXAMINE.
   (A)   The Tax Administrator, or any authorized agent or employee thereof may
examine the books, papers, records, and federal and state income tax returns of
any employer, taxpayer, or other person that is subject to, or that the Tax
Administrator believes is subject to, the provisions of this Chapter for the
purpose of verifying the accuracy of any return made or, if no return was
filed, to ascertain the tax due under this Chapter. Upon written request by the
Tax Administrator or a duly authorized agent or employee thereof, every
employer, taxpayer, or other person subject to this section is required to
furnish the opportunity for the Tax Administrator, authorized agent, or
employee to investigate and examine such books, papers, records, and federal
and state income tax returns at a reasonable time and place designated in the
request.
   (B)   The records and other documents of any taxpayer, employer, or other
person that is subject to, or that a Tax Administrator believes is subject to,
the provisions of this Chapter shall be open to the Tax Administrator's
inspection during business hours and shall be preserved for a period of six
years following the end of the taxable year to which the records or documents
relate, unless the Tax Administrator, in writing, consents to their destruction
within that period, or by order requires that they be kept longer. The Tax
Administrator of a municipal corporation may require any person, by notice
served on that person, to keep such records as the Tax Administrator determines
necessary to show whether or not that person is liable, and the extent of such
liability, for the income tax levied by the Municipality or for the withholding
of such tax.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator may examine under oath any person that the Tax
Administrator reasonably believes has knowledge concerning any income that was
or would have been returned for taxation or any transaction tending to affect
such income. The Tax Administrator may, for this purpose, compel any such
person to attend a hearing or examination and to produce any books, papers,
records, and federal and state income tax returns in such person's possession
or control. The person may be assisted or represented by an attorney,
accountant, bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner at any such hearing or
examination. This division does not authorize the practice of law by a person
who is not an attorney.
   (D) No person issued written notice by the Tax Administrator compelling
attendance at a hearing or examination or the production of books, papers,
records, or federal and state income tax returns under this section shall fail
to comply.
(Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.134 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; REQUIRING IDENTIFYING INFORMATION.
   (A)   The Tax Administrator may require any person filing a tax document
with the Tax Administrator to provide identifying information, which may
include the person's social security number, federal employer identification
number, or other identification number requested by the Tax Administrator. A
person required by the Tax Administrator to provide identifying information
that has experienced any change with respect to that information shall notify
the Tax Administrator of the change before, or upon, filing the next tax
document requiring the identifying information.
   (B)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator makes a request for identifying
information and the Tax Administrator does not receive valid identifying
information within thirty days of making the request, nothing in this chapter
prohibits the Tax Administrator from imposing a penalty upon the person to whom
the request was directed pursuant to section
94.5.10 of this Chapter, in addition to any applicable penalty described in
section
94.5.99 of this Chapter.
      (2)   If a person required by the Tax Administrator to provide
identifying information does not notify the Tax Administrator of a change with
respect to that information as required under division (A) of this section
within thirty days after filing the next tax document requiring such
identifying information, nothing in this chapter prohibits the Tax
Administrator from imposing a penalty pursuant to section
94.5.10 of this Chapter.
      (3)   The penalties provided for under divisions (B)(1) and (2) of this
section may be billed and imposed in the same manner as the tax or fee with
respect to which the identifying information is sought and are in addition to
any applicable criminal penalties described in section
94.5.99 of this Chapter for a violation of
94.5.15 of this Chapter, and any other penalties that may be imposed by the Tax
Administrator by law.
(Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.14 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   Any information gained as a result of returns, investigations,
hearings, or verifications required or authorized by ORC 718 or by the charter
or ordinance of the Municipality is confidential, and no person shall access or
disclose such information except in accordance with a proper judicial order or
in connection with the performance of that person's official duties or the
official business of the Municipality as authorized by ORC 718 or the charter
or ordinance authorizing the levy. The Tax Administrator of the Municipality or
a designee thereof may furnish copies of returns filed or otherwise received
under this chapter and other related tax information to the Internal Revenue
Service, the State Tax Commissioner, and Tax Administrators of other municipal
corporations.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit the Municipality from publishing or
disclosing statistics in a form that does not disclose information with respect
to particular taxpayers.
(Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.15 FRAUD.
   No person shall knowingly make, present, aid, or assist in the preparation
or presentation of a false or fraudulent report, return, schedule, statement,
claim, or document authorized or required by municipal corporation ordinance or
state law to be filed with the Tax Administrator, or knowingly procure,
counsel, or advise the preparation or presentation of such report, return,
schedule, statement, claim, or document, or knowingly change, alter, or amend,
or knowingly procure, counsel or advise such change, alteration, or amendment
of the records upon which such report, return, schedule, statement, claim, or
document is based with intent to defraud the Municipality or the Tax
Administrator.
(Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.16 OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   An "opinion of the Tax Administrator" means an opinion issued under
this section with respect to prospective municipal income tax liability. It
does not include ordinary correspondence of the Tax Administrator.
   (B)   A taxpayer may submit a written request for an opinion of the Tax
Administrator as to whether or how certain income, source of income, or a
certain activity or transaction will be taxed. The written response of the Tax
Administrator shall be an "opinion of the Tax Administrator" and shall bind the
Tax Administrator, in accordance with divisions (C), (G), and (H) of this
section, provided all of the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The taxpayer's request fully and accurately describes the specific
facts or circumstances relevant to a determination of the taxability of the
income, source of income, activity, or transaction, and, if an activity or
transaction, all parties involved in the activity or transaction are clearly
identified by name, location, or other pertinent facts.
      (2)   The request relates to a tax imposed by the Municipality in
accordance with this Chapter.
      (3)   The Tax Administrator's response is signed by the Tax Administrator
and designated as an "opinion of the Tax Administrator."
   (C)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator shall remain in effect and shall
protect the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and who reasonably
relies on it from liability for any taxes, penalty, or interest otherwise
chargeable on the activity or transaction specifically held by the Tax
Administrator's opinion to be taxable in a particular manner or not to be
subject to taxation for any taxable years that may be specified in the opinion,
or until the earliest of the following dates:
      (1)   The effective date of a written revocation by the Tax Administrator
sent to the taxpayer by certified mail, return receipt requested. The effective
date of the revocation shall be the taxpayer's date of receipt or one year
after the issuance of the opinion, whichever is later;
      (2)   The effective date of any amendment or enactment of a relevant
section of the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified state law, or the Municipality's
income tax ordinance that would substantially change the analysis and
conclusion of the opinion of the Tax Administrator;
      (3)   The date on which a court issues an opinion establishing or
changing relevant case law with respect to the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified
state law, or the Municipality's income tax ordinance;
      (4)   If the opinion of the Tax Administrator was based on the
interpretation of federal law, the effective date of any change in the relevant
federal statutes or regulations, or the date on which a court issues an opinion
establishing or changing relevant case law with respect to federal statutes or
regulations;
      (5) The effective date of any change in the taxpayer's material facts or
circumstances;
      (6)   The effective date of the expiration of the opinion, if specified
in the opinion.
   (D)   (1)   A taxpayer is not relieved of tax liability for any activity or
transaction related to a request for an opinion that contained any
misrepresentation or omission of one or more material facts.
      (2)   If the taxpayer knowingly has misrepresented the pertinent facts or
omitted material facts with intent to defraud the Municipality in order to
obtain a more favorable opinion, the taxpayer may be in violation of section
94.5.15 of this Chapter.
   (E)   If a Tax Administrator provides written advice under this section, the
opinion shall include a statement that:
      (1)   The tax consequences stated in the opinion may be subject to change
for any of the reasons stated in division (C) of this section;
      (2)   It is the duty of the taxpayer to be aware of such changes.
   (F)   A Tax Administrator may refuse to offer an opinion on any request
received under this section.
   (G)   This section binds a Tax Administrator only with respect to opinions
of the Tax Administrator issued on or after January 1, 2016.
   (H)   An opinion of a Tax Administrator binds that Tax Administrator only
with respect to the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and does not
bind the Tax Administrator of any other municipal corporation.
   (I)   A Tax Administrator shall make available the text of all opinions
issued under this section, except those opinions prepared for a taxpayer who
has requested that the text of the opinion remain confidential. In no event
shall the text of an opinion be made available until the Tax Administrator has
removed all information that identifies the taxpayer and any other parties
involved in the activity or transaction.
   (J)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator issued under this section or a
refusal to offer an opinion under subsection (F) may not be appealed.
(Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.17 ASSESSMENT; APPEAL BASED ON PRESUMPTION OF DELIVERY.
   (A)   (1)   The Tax Administrator shall serve an assessment either by
personal service, by certified mail, or by a delivery service authorized under
section 5703.056 of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator may deliver the assessment through
alternative means as provided in this section, including, but not limited to,
delivery by secure electronic mail. Such alternative delivery method must be
authorized by the person subject to the assessment.
      (3)   Once service of the assessment has been made by the Tax
Administrator or other municipal official, or the designee of either, the
person to whom the assessment is directed may protest the ruling of that
assessment by filing an appeal with the Local Board of Tax Review within sixty
days after the receipt of service. The delivery of an assessment of the Tax
Administrator as prescribed in Section 718.18 of the Revised Code is prima
facie evidence that delivery is complete and that the assessment is served.
   (B)   (1)   A person may challenge the presumption of delivery and service
as set forth in this division. A person disputing the presumption of delivery
and service under this section bears the burden of proving by a preponderance
of the evidence that the address to which the assessment was sent was not an
address with which the person was associated at the time the Tax Administrator
originally mailed the assessment by certified mail. For the purposes of this
section, a person is associated with an address at the time the Tax
Administrator originally mailed the assessment if, at that time, the person was
residing, receiving legal documents, or conducting business at the address; or
if, before that time, the person had conducted business at the address and,
when the assessment was mailed, the person's agent or the person's affiliate
was conducting business at the address. For the purposes of this section, a
person's affiliate is any other person that, at the time the assessment was
mailed, owned or controlled at least twenty per cent, as determined by voting
rights, of the addressee's business.
      (2)   If a person elects to appeal an assessment on the basis described
in division (B)(1) of this section, and if that assessment is subject to
collection and is not otherwise appealable, the person must do so within sixty
days after the initial contact by the Tax Administrator or other municipal
official, or the designee of either, with the person. Nothing in this division
prevents the Tax Administrator or other official from entering into a
compromise with the person if the person does not actually file such an appeal
with the Local Board of Tax Review.
(Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.18 LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW; APPEAL TO LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW.
   (A)   (1)   The legislative authority of the Municipality shall maintain a
Local Board of Tax Review to hear appeals as provided in Ohio Revised Code
Chapter 718.
      (2)   The Local Board of Tax Review shall consist of three members.
Members may be domiciled, but appointing authority may decide. The three
members of the Local Board of Tax Review may be domiciled in the Municipality,
but the appointing authority may consider membership from individuals who are
not domiciled within the Municipality.
         Two members shall be appointed by the legislative authority of the
Municipality, and may not be employees, elected officials, or contractors with
the Municipality at any time during their term or in the five years immediately
preceding the date of appointment. One member shall be appointed by the top
administrative official of the Municipality. This member may be an employee of
the Municipality, but may not be the Director of Finance or equivalent officer,
or the Tax Administrator or other similar official or an employee directly
involved in municipal tax matters, or any direct subordinate thereof.
      (3)   The term for members of the Local Board of Tax Review appointed by
the legislative authority of the Municipality shall be two years. There is no
limit on the number of terms that a member may serve should the member be
reappointed by the legislative authority. The board member appointed by the top
administrative official of the Municipality shall serve at the discretion of
the administrative official.
      (4)   Members of the Board of Tax Review appointed by the legislative
authority may be removed by the legislative authority as set forth in Section
718.11(A)(4) of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   A member of the board who, for any reason, ceases to meet the
qualifications for the position prescribed by this section shall resign
immediately by operation of law.
      (6)   A vacancy in an unexpired term shall be filled in the same manner
as the original appointment within sixty days of when the vacancy was created.
Any member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the
term for which the member's predecessor was appointed shall hold office for the
remainder of such term. No vacancy on the board shall impair the power and
authority of the remaining members to exercise all the powers of the board.
      (7)   If a member is temporarily unable to serve on the board due to a
conflict of interest, illness, absence, or similar reason, the legislative
authority or top administrative official that appointed the member shall
appoint another individual to temporarily serve on the board in the member's
place. This appointment shall be subject to the same requirements and
limitations as are applicable to the appointment of the member temporarily
unable to serve.
      (8)   No member of the Local Board of Tax Review shall receive
compensation, fee, or reimbursement of expenses for service on the board.
      (9) A member of a Local Board of Tax Review shall not be appointed to or
serve on another such board simultaneously.
   (B)   Whenever a Tax Administrator issues an assessment, the Tax
Administrator shall notify the taxpayer in writing at the same time of the
taxpayer's right to appeal the assessment, the manner in which the taxpayer may
appeal the assessment, and the address to which the appeal should be directed,
and to whom the appeal should be directed.
   (C)   Any person who has been issued an assessment may appeal the assessment
to the board by filing a request with the board. The request shall be in
writing, shall specify the reason or reasons why the assessment should be
deemed incorrect or unlawful, and shall be filed within sixty days after the
taxpayer receives the assessment.
   (D)   The Local Board of Tax Review shall schedule a hearing to be held
within sixty days after receiving an appeal of an assessment under division (C)
of this section, unless the taxpayer requests additional time to prepare or
waives a hearing. If the taxpayer does not waive the hearing, the taxpayer may
appear before the board and/or may be represented by an attorney at law,
certified public accountant, or other representative. The board may allow a
hearing to be continued as jointly agreed to by the parties. In such a case,
the hearing must be completed within one hundred twenty days after the first
day of the hearing unless the parties agree otherwise.
   (E)   The board may affirm, reverse, or modify the Tax Administrator's
assessment or any part of that assessment. The board shall issue a final
determination on the appeal within ninety days after the board's final hearing
on the appeal, and send a copy of its final determination by ordinary mail to
all of the parties to the appeal within fifteen days after issuing the final
determination. The taxpayer or the Tax Administrator may appeal the board's
final determination as provided in section 5717.011 of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (F)   The Local Board of Tax Review created pursuant to this section shall
adopt rules governing its procedures, including a schedule of related costs,
and shall keep a record of its transactions. The rules governing the Local
Board of Tax Review procedures shall be in writing, and may be amended as
needed by the Local Board of Tax Review. Such records are not public records
available for inspection under section 149.43 of the Ohio Revised Code. For
this reason, any documentation, copies of returns or reports, final
determinations, or working papers for each case must be maintained in a secure
location under the control of the Tax Administrator. No member of the Local
Board of Tax Review may remove such documentation, copies of returns or
reports, final determinations, or working papers from the hearing. Hearings
requested by a taxpayer before a Local Board of Tax Review created pursuant to
this section are not meetings of a public body subject to section 121.22 of the
Ohio Revised Code. For this reason, such hearings shall not be open to the
public, and only those parties to the case may be present during the hearing.
(Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.19 ACTIONS TO RECOVER; STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Civil actions to recover municipal income taxes and
penalties and interest on municipal income taxes shall be brought within the
latter of:
            (i)   Three years after the tax was due or the return was filed,
whichever is later; or
            (ii)   One year after the conclusion of the qualifying deferral
period, if any.
         (b)   The time limit described in division (A)(1)(a) of this section
may be extended at any time if both the Tax Administrator and the employer,
agent of the employer, other payer, or taxpayer consent in writing to the
extension. Any extension shall also extend for the same period of time the time
limit described in division (C) of this section.
      (2)   As used in this section, "qualifying deferral period" means a
period of time beginning and ending as follows:
         (a)   Beginning on the date a person who is aggrieved by an assessment
files with a Local Board of Tax Review the request described in Section
94.5.18 of this Chapter. That date shall not be affected by any subsequent
decision, finding, or holding by any administrative body or court that the
Local Board of Tax Review with which the aggrieved person filed the request did
not have jurisdiction to affirm, reverse, or modify the assessment or any part
of that assessment.
         (b)   Ending the later of the sixtieth day after the date on which the
final determination of the Local Board of Tax Review becomes final or, if any
party appeals from the determination of the Local Board of Tax Review, the
sixtieth day after the date on which the final determination of the Local Board
of Tax Review is either ultimately affirmed in whole or in part or ultimately
reversed and no further appeal of either that affirmation, in whole or in part,
or that reversal is available or taken.
   (B)   Prosecutions for an offense made punishable under a resolution or
ordinance imposing an income tax shall be commenced within three years after
the commission of the offense, provided that in the case of fraud, failure to
file a return, or the omission of twenty-five per cent or more of income
required to be reported, prosecutions may be commenced within six years after
the commission of the offense.
   (C)   A claim for a refund of municipal income taxes shall be brought within
the time limitation provided in Section
94.5.096 of this Chapter.
    (D)   (1)   Notwithstanding the fact that an appeal is pending, the
petitioner may pay all or a portion of the assessment that is the subject of
the appeal. The acceptance of a payment by the Municipality does not prejudice
any claim for refund upon final determination of the appeal.
      (2)   If upon final determination of the appeal an error in the
assessment is corrected by the Tax Administrator, upon an appeal so filed or
pursuant to a final determination of the Local Board of Tax Review created
under Section
94.5.18 of this Chapter, of the Ohio Board of Tax Appeals, or any court to
which the decision of the Ohio Board of Tax Appeals has been appealed, so that
the amount due from the party assessed under the corrected assessment is less
than the amount paid, there shall be issued to the appellant or to the
appellant's assigns or legal representative a refund in the amount of the
overpayment as provided by Section
94.5.096 of this Chapter, with interest on that amount as provided by division
(D) of this section.
   (E)   No civil action to recover municipal income tax or related penalties
or interest shall be brought during either of the following time periods:
      (1)   The period during which a taxpayer has a right to appeal the
imposition of that tax or interest or those penalties;
      (2)   The period during which an appeal related to the imposition of that
tax or interest or those penalties is pending.
(Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.20 ADOPTION OF RULES.
   (A)   Pursuant to Section 718.30 of the Ohio Revised Code, the Municipality,
pursuant to this Chapter, grants authority to the Tax Administrator to adopt
rules to administer the income tax imposed by the Municipality.
   (B)   All rules adopted under this section shall be published and posted on
the internet.
(Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.201 LANDLORD REPORTING.
   (A)   Every owner of two (2) or more rental units and every owner or
operator of a mobile home park is hereby directed and required to furnish to
the Finance Director or his delegate a yearly roster of the names and addresses
of persons residing in the rental units or mobile home park. The listing must
include any changes during the year. The yearly roster shall be filed in the
following year on or before January 31st. Larger entities may be required to
file on a quarterly or semi-annually basis at the Finance Director’s
discretion.
   (B)   Every condominium association, owners’ organizations of condominium
units, or other owners’/residents’ cooperative dwelling affiliations is hereby
required to furnish a yearly roster of the names and addresses of their members
that own, rent, or have an interest in properties located in the City of West
Carrollton to the Finance Director or his delegate. This roster must include
any changes during the year such as new owners or forwarding addresses. The
yearly roster shall be filed in the following year on or before January 31st.
Larger entities may be required to file on a quarterly or semi-annually basis
at the Finance Director’s discretion.
(Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.97 COLLECTION AFTER TERMINATION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   This chapter shall continue in full force and effect insofar as the
levy of taxes is concerned until repealed, and insofar as the collection of
taxes levied hereunder and actions and proceedings for collecting any tax so
levied or enforcing any provisions of this chapter are concerned, it shall
continue in full force and effect until all of the taxes levied in the
aforesaid period are fully paid and any and all suits and prosecutions for the
collection of taxes or for the punishment of violations of this chapter have
been fully terminated, subject to the limitations contained in Section
94.5.19.
   (B)   Annual returns due for all or any part of the last effective year of
this chapter shall be due on the date provided in Section
94.5.091 as though the same were continuing.
(Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-15.)
§ 94.5.98 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   If any sentence, clause, section or part of this chapter, or any tax imposed
against, or exemption from tax granted to, any taxpayer or forms of income
specified herein is found to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such
unconstitutionality, illegality, or invalidity shall affect only such clause,
sentence, section or part of this chapter so found and shall not affect or
impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections or other
parts of this chapter. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the
legislative authority of the Municipality that this chapter would have been
adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid sentence, clause, section
or part thereof not been included in this chapter. (Ord. 3572. Passed 11-24-
15.)
§ 94.5.99 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, whoever violates
Section
94.5.15 of this Chapter, division (A) of Section
94.5.14 of this Chapter, or Section
94.5.051 of this Chapter by failing to remit municipal income taxes deducted
and withheld from an employee, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree and shall be subject to a fine of not more than one thousand dollars or
imprisonment for a term of up to six months, or both. In addition, the
violation is punishable by dismissal from office or discharge from employment,
or both.
   (B)   Any person who discloses information received from the Internal
Revenue Service in violation of Internal Revenue Code Sec. 7213(a), 7213A, or
7431 shall be guilty of a felony of the fifth degree and shall be subject to a
fine of not more than five thousand dollars plus the costs of prosecution, or
imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years, or both. In addition, the
violation is punishable by dismissal from office or discharge from employment,
or both.
   (C)   Each instance of access or disclosure in violation of division (A) of
Section
94.5.14 of this Chapter constitutes a separate offense.
   (D)   Whoever violates any provision of this Chapter for which violation no
penalty is otherwise provided, is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree
on a first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first
offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree; on each
subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. By way of an illustrative
enumeration, violations of this Chapter shall include but not be limited to the
following acts, conduct, and/or omissions:
      (1)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any return or declaration required
by this Chapter; or
      (2)   Knowingly make any incomplete return; or
      (3)   Willfully fail, neglect, or refuse to pay the tax, penalties, and
interest, or any combination thereof, imposed by this Chapter; or
      (4)   Cause to not be remitted the city income tax withheld from
qualifying wages of employees to the Municipality municipal corporation as
required by Section
94.5.051; or
      (5)   Neglect or refuse to withhold or remit municipal income tax from
employees; or
      (6)   Refuse to permit the Tax Administrator or any duly authorized agent
or employee to examine his or her books, records, papers, federal and state
income tax returns, or any documentation relating to the income or net profits
of a taxpayer; or
      (7)   Fail to appear before the Tax Administrator and to produce his or
her books, records, papers, federal and state income tax returns, or any
documentation relating to the income or net profits of a taxpayer upon order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator; or
      (8)   Refuse to disclose to the Tax Administrator any information with
respect to such person's income or net profits, or in the case of a person
responsible for maintaining information relating to his or her employers'
income or net profits, such person's employer's income or net profits; or
      (9)   Fail to comply with the provisions of this chapter or any order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator; or
      (10)   To avoid imposition or collection of municipal income tax,
willfully give to an employer or prospective employer false information as to
his or her true name, correct social security number and residence address, or
willfully fail to promptly notify an employer or a prospective employer of any
change in residence address and date thereof; or
      (11)   Fail, as an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer, to
maintain proper records of employees residence addresses, total qualifying
wages paid and municipal tax withheld, or to knowingly give the Tax
Administrator false information; or
      (12)   Willfully fail, neglect, or refuse to make any payment of
estimated municipal income tax for any taxable year or any part of any taxable
year in accordance with this Chapter; or
      (13)   Attempt to do anything whatsoever to avoid the payment of the
whole or any part of the tax, penalties or interest imposed by this Chapter.
      (14)   For purposes of this Section, any violation that does not specify
a culpable mental state or intent, shall be one of strict liability and no
culpable mental state or intent shall be required for a person to be guilty of
that violation.
      (15)   For purposes of this Section, the term "person" shall, in addition
to the meaning prescribed in Section
94.5.03, include in the case of a corporation, association, pass-through entity
or unincorporated business entity not having any resident owner or officer
within the city, any employee or agent of such corporation, association, pass-
through entity or unincorporated business entity who has control or supervision
over or is charged with the responsibility of filing the municipal income tax
returns and making the payments of the municipal income tax as required by this
Chapter. (Ord. 3572. Passed 11- 24-15.)
§ 94.6.01 FILING NET PROFIT TAXES; ELECTION TO BE SUBJECT TO PROVISIONS OF
CHAPTER.
   (A)   A taxpayer may elect to be subject to sections 94.6.1 to
94.6.16 of the Codified Ordinances in lieu of the provisions set forth in the
remainder of this chapter. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter,
upon the taxpayer's election, both of the following shall apply:
      (1)   The state tax commissioner shall serve as the sole administrator of
the municipal net profit tax for which the taxpayer as defined in 94.6.02(C)
other than an individual of the Codified Ordinances is liable for the term of
the election;
      (2)   The commissioner shall administer the tax pursuant to sections
718.80 to 718.95 of the Revised Code, sections 94.6.1 to 94.6.16 of the
Codified Ordinances, and any applicable provision of Chapter 5703 of the
Revised Code.
   (B)   (1)   A taxpayer shall make the initial election on or before the
first day of the third month after the beginning of the taxpayer's taxable year
by notifying the tax commissioner and the City of West Carrollton, on a form
prescribed by the tax commissioner.
      (2)   (a)   The election, once made by the taxpayer, applies to the
taxable year in which the election is made and to each subsequent taxable year
until the taxpayer notifies the tax commissioner and the City of West
Carrollton of its termination of the election.
         (b)   A notification of termination shall be made, on a form
prescribed by the tax commissioner, on or before the first day of the third
month of any taxable year.
         (c)   Upon a timely and valid termination of the election, the
taxpayer is no longer subject to sections 94.6.1 to 94.6.16 of the Codified
Ordinances, and is instead subject to the provisions set forth in the remainder
of this chapter.
   (C)   The tax commissioner shall enforce and administer sections 94.6.1 to
94.6.16 of the Codified Ordinances. In addition to any other powers conferred
upon the tax commissioner by law, the tax commissioner may:
      (1)   Prescribe all forms necessary to administer those sections;
      (2)   Adopt such rules as the tax commissioner finds necessary to carry
out those sections;
      (3)   Appoint and employ such personnel as are necessary to carry out the
duties imposed upon the tax commissioner by those sections.
   (D)   The tax commissioner shall not be considered a tax administrator, as
that term is defined in section 718.01 of the Revised Code and Section
94.5.03(44) of the City of West Carrollton Codified Ordinances. (Ord. 3629.
Passed 2-27-18.)
§ 94.6.02 DEFINITIONS.
   If a term used in sections 94.6.1 to 94.6.16 of the Codified Ordinances that
is not otherwise defined in this chapter is used in a comparable context in
both the laws of the United States relating to federal income tax and in Title
LVII of the Revised Code and the use is not consistent, then the use of the
term in the laws of the United States relating to federal income tax shall have
control over the use of the term in Title LVII of the Revised Code, unless the
term is defined in Chapter 5703. of the Revised Code, in which case the
definition in that chapter shall control. Any reference in this chapter to the
Internal Revenue Code includes other laws of the United States related to
federal income taxes. If a term is defined in both this section and section
94.5.03 of the Codified Ordinances, the definition in this section shall
control for all uses of that term in sections 94.6.1 to 94.6.16 of the Codified
Ordinances.
   As used in sections 94.6.1 to 94.6.16 of the Codified Ordinances only:
   (A)   "Municipal taxable income" means income apportioned or sitused to the
municipal corporation under section
94.5.03(20)(A) of the Codified Ordinances, as applicable, reduced by any pre-
2017 net operating loss carryforward available to the person for the municipal
corporation.
   (B)   "Adjusted federal taxable income," for a person required to file as a
C corporation, or for a person that has elected to be taxed as a C corporation
as described in division (D)(5) of section 718.01 of the Revised Code and
section
94.5.03(1) of the Codified Ordinances, means a C corporation's federal taxable
income before net operating losses and special deductions as determined under
the Internal Revenue Code, adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Deduct intangible income to the extent included in federal taxable
income. The deduction shall be allowed regardless of whether the intangible
income relates to assets used in a trade or business or assets held for the
production of income.
      (2)   Add an amount equal to five per cent of intangible income deducted
under division (B)(1) of this section, but excluding that portion of intangible
income directly related to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of property
described in section 1221 of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (3)   Add any losses allowed as a deduction in the computation of federal
taxable income if the losses directly relate to the sale, exchange, or other
disposition of an asset described in section 1221 or 1231 of the Internal
Revenue Code.
   (4)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(4)(b) of this section, deduct
income and gain included in federal taxable income to the extent the income and
gain directly relate to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of an asset
described in section 1221 or 1231 of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (b)   Division (B)(4)(a) of this section does not apply to the extent the
income or gain is income or gain described in section 1245 or 1250 of the
Internal Revenue Code.
      (5)   Add taxes on or measured by net income allowed as a deduction in
the computation of federal taxable income.
      (6)   In the case of a real estate investment trust or regulated
investment company, add all amounts with respect to dividends to, distributions
to, or amounts set aside for or credited to the benefit of investors and
allowed as a deduction in the computation of federal taxable income.
      (7)   Deduct, to the extent not otherwise deducted or excluded in
computing federal taxable income, any income derived from a transfer agreement
or from the enterprise transferred under that agreement under section 4313.02
of the Revised Code.
      (8)   Deduct exempt income to the extent not otherwise deducted or
excluded in computing adjusted federal taxable income.
      (9)   Deduct any net profit of a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer's federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that net profit in
the group's federal taxable income in accordance with division E(3)(b)of
section
94.5.063 of the Codified Ordinances.
      (10)   Add any loss incurred by a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer's federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that loss in the
group's federal taxable income in accordance with division E(3)(b)of section
94.5.063 of the Codified Ordinances.
         If the taxpayer is not a C corporation, is not a disregarded entity
that has made the election described in division (A) of section
94.6.01 of the Codified Ordinances, and is not a publicly traded partnership
that has made the election described in division(A) of section
94.6.01 of the Codified Ordinances, the taxpayer shall compute adjusted federal
taxable income under this section as if the taxpayer were a C corporation,
except guaranteed payments and other similar amounts paid or accrued to a
partner, former partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former
member shall not be allowed as a deductible expense unless such payments are in
consideration for the use of capital and treated as payment of interest under
section 469 of the Internal Revenue Code or United States treasury regulations.
Amounts paid or accrued to a qualified self-employed retirement plan with
respect to a partner, former partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member,
or
former member of the taxpayer, amounts paid or accrued to or for health
insurance for a partner, former partner, shareholder, former shareholder,
member, or former member, and amounts paid or accrued to or for life insurance
for a partner, former partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member, or
former member shall not be allowed as a deduction.
         Nothing in division (B) of this section shall be construed as allowing
the taxpayer to add or deduct any amount more than once or shall be construed
as allowing any taxpayer to deduct any amount paid to or accrued for purposes
of federal self-employment tax.
   (C)   "Taxpayer" has the same meaning as in section
94.5.03(47)(A) of the Codified Ordinances, except that "taxpayer" does not
include natural persons or entities subject to the tax imposed under Chapter
5745. of the Revised Code. "Taxpayer" may include receivers, assignees, or
trustees in bankruptcy when such persons are required to assume the role of a
taxpayer.
   (D)   "Tax return" or "return" means the notifications and reports required
to be filed pursuant to sections 94.6.1 to 94.6.16 of the Codified Ordinances
for the purpose of reporting municipal income taxes, and includes declarations
of estimated tax.
   (E)   "Taxable year" means the calendar year or the taxpayer's fiscal year
ending during the calendar year, or fractional part thereof, upon which the
calculation of the taxpayer's adjusted federal taxable income is based pursuant
to this chapter. If a taxpayer's taxable year is changed for federal income tax
purposes, the taxable year for purposes of sections 94.6.1 to 94.6.16 of the
Codified Ordinances is changed accordingly but may consist of an aggregation of
more than one taxable year for federal income tax purposes. The tax
commissioner may prescribe by rule an appropriate period as the taxable year
for a taxpayer that has had a change of its taxable year for federal income tax
purposes, for a taxpayer that has two or more short taxable years for federal
income tax purposes as the result of a change of ownership, or for a new
taxpayer that would otherwise have no taxable year.
   (F)   "Assessment" means a notice of underpayment or nonpayment of a tax
issued pursuant to section
94.5.17 of the Codified Ordinances.
(Ord. 3629. Passed 2-27-18.)
§ 94.6.03 APPLICABILITY; TAXABLE SITUS; APPORTIONMENT.
   This section applies to any taxpayer that is engaged in a business or
profession in the City of West Carrollton and that has made the election under
section
94.6.01 of the Codified Ordinances.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (B) and (H) of this section,
net profit from a business or profession conducted both within and without the
boundaries of the City of West Carrollton shall be considered as having a
taxable situs in the City of West Carrollton for purposes of municipal income
taxation in the same proportion as the average ratio of the following:
      (1)   The average original cost of the real property and tangible
personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the business or profession
in the City of West Carrollton during the taxable period to the average
original cost of all of the real and tangible personal property owned or used
by the taxpayer in the business or profession during the same period, wherever
situated.
         As used in the preceding paragraph, tangible personal or real property
shall include property rented or leased by the taxpayer and the value of such
property shall be determined by multiplying the annual rental thereon by eight;
      (2)   Wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during the taxable
period to individuals employed in the business or profession for services
performed in the City of West Carrollton to wages, salaries, and other
compensation paid during the same period to individuals employed in the
business or profession, wherever the individual's services are performed,
excluding compensation from which taxes are not required to be withheld under
section
94.5.052 of the Codified Ordinances;
      (3)   Total gross receipts of the business or profession from sales and
rentals made and services performed during the taxable period in the City of
West Carrollton to total gross receipts of the business or profession during
the same period from sales, rentals, and services, wherever made or performed.
   (B)   (1)   If the apportionment factors described in division (A) of this
section do not fairly represent the extent of a taxpayer's business activity in
the City of West Carrollton, the taxpayer may request, or the tax commissioner
may require, that the taxpayer use, with respect to all or any portion of the
income of the taxpayer, an alternative apportionment method involving one or
more of the following:
         (a)   Separate accounting;
         (b)   The exclusion of one or more of the factors;
         (c)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors that would
provide for a more fair apportionment of the income of the taxpayer to the
municipal corporation;
         (d)   A modification of one or more of the factors.
      (2)   A taxpayer request to use an alternative apportionment method shall
be in writing and shall accompany a tax return, timely filed appeal of an
assessment, or timely filed amended tax return. The taxpayer may use the
requested alternative method unless the tax commissioner denies the request in
an assessment issued within the period prescribed by division (A) of section
94.6.03 of the Codified Ordinances.
      (3)   The tax commissioner may require a taxpayer to use an alternative
apportionment method as described in division (B)(1) of this section only by
issuing an assessment to the taxpayer within the period prescribed by division
(A) of section
94.6.03 of the Codified Ordinances.
   (C)   As used in division (A)(2) of this section, "wages, salaries, and
other compensation" includes only wages, salaries, or other compensation paid
to an employee for services performed at any of the following locations:
      (1)   A location that is owned, controlled, or used by, rented to, or
under the possession of one of the following:
         (a)   The employer;
         (b)   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of the employer, or a
related member of such a vendor, customer, client, or patient;
         (c)   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of a person described in
division (C)(1)(b) of this section, or a related member of such a vendor,
customer, client, or patient.
      (2)   Any location at which a trial, appeal, hearing, investigation,
inquiry, review, court-martial, or similar administrative, judicial, or
legislative matter or proceeding is being conducted, provided that the
compensation is paid for services performed for, or on behalf of, the employer
or that the employee's presence at the location directly or indirectly benefits
the employer;
      (3)   Any other location, if the tax commissioner determines that the
employer directed the employee to perform the services at the other location in
lieu of a location described in division (C)(1) or (2) of this section solely
in order to avoid or reduce the employer's municipal income tax liability. If
the tax commissioner makes such a determination, the employer may dispute the
determination by establishing, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the tax
commissioner's determination was unreasonable.
   (D)   For the purposes of division (A)(3) of this section, and except as
provided in division (H) of this section, receipts from sales and rentals made
and services performed shall be sitused to the City of West Carrollton as
follows:
      (1)   Gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property shall be
sitused to the City of West Carrollton only if, regardless of where title
passes, the property meets either of the following criteria:
         (a)   The property is shipped to or delivered within the City of West
Carrollton from a stock of goods located within the City of West Carrollton.
         (b)   The property is delivered within the City of West Carrollton
from a location outside the City of West Carrollton, provided the taxpayer is
regularly engaged through its own employees in the solicitation or promotion of
sales within the City of West Carrollton and the sales result from such
solicitation or promotion.
      (2)   Gross receipts from the sale of services shall be sitused to the
City of West Carrollton to the extent that such services are performed in the
City of West Carrollton.
      (3)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from the sale of
real property located in the City of West Carrollton shall be sitused to the
City of West Carrollton.
      (4)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from rents and
royalties from real property located in the City of West Carrollton shall be
sitused to the City of West Carrollton.
      (5)   Gross receipts from rents and royalties from tangible personal
property shall be sitused to the City of West Carrollton based upon the extent
to which the tangible personal property is used in the City of West Carrollton.
   (E)   Commissions received by a real estate agent or broker relating to the
sale, purchase, or lease of real estate shall be sitused to the City of West
Carrollton in which the real estate is located. Net profit reported by the real
estate agent or broker shall be allocated to the City of West Carrollton based
upon the ratio of the commissions the agent or broker received from the sale,
purchase, or lease of real estate located in the City of West Carrollton to the
commissions received from the sale, purchase, or lease of real estate
everywhere in the taxable year.
   (F)   If, in computing a taxpayer's adjusted federal taxable income, the
taxpayer deducted any amount with respect to a stock option granted to an
employee, and if the employee is not required to include in the employee's
income any such amount or a portion thereof because it is exempted from
taxation under divisions (C)(12) and (R)(1)(d) of section
94.6.03 of the Codified Ordinances by the City of West Carrollton or
substantially similar provision of the codified ordinances of another municipal
corporation, the taxpayer shall add the amount that is exempt from taxation to
the taxpayer's net profit that was apportioned to the City of West Carrollton.
In no case shall a taxpayer be required to add to its net profit that was
apportioned to the City of West Carrollton any amount other than the amount
upon which the employee would be required to pay tax were the amount related to
the stock option not exempted from taxation.
      This division applies solely for the purpose of making an adjustment to
the amount of a taxpayer's net profit that was apportioned to the City of West
Carrollton under this section.
   (G)   When calculating the ratios described in division (A) of this section
for the purposes of that division or division (B) of this section, the owner of
a disregarded entity shall include in the owner's ratios the property, payroll,
and gross receipts of such disregarded entity.
   (H)   (1)   As used in this division:
         (a)   QUALIFYING REMOTE EMPLOYEE OR OWNER means an individual who is
an employee of a taxpayer or who is a partner or member holding an ownership
interest in a taxpayer that is treated as a partnership for federal income tax
purposes, provided that the individual meets both of the following criteria:
            1.   The taxpayer has assigned the individual to a qualifying
reporting location.
            2.   The individual is permitted or required to perform services
for the taxpayer at a qualifying remote work location.
         (b)   QUALIFYING REMOTE WORK LOCATION means a permanent or temporary
location at which an employee or owner chooses or is required to perform
services for the taxpayer, other than a reporting location of the taxpayer or
any other location owned or controlled by a customer or client of the taxpayer.
"Qualifying remote work location" may include the residence of an employee or
owner and may be located outside of a municipal corporation that imposes an
income tax in accordance with this chapter. An employee or owner may have more
than one qualifying remote work location during a taxable year.
         (c)   REPORTING LOCATION means either of the following:
            1.   A permanent or temporary place of doing business, such as an
office, warehouse, storefront, construction site, or similar location, that is
owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the taxpayer;
            2.   Any location in this state owned or controlled by a customer
or client of the taxpayer, provided that the taxpayer is required to withhold
taxes under Section D of this chapter, on qualifying wages paid to an employee
for the performance of personal services at that location.
         (d)   QUALIFYING REPORTING LOCATION means one of the following:
            1.   The reporting location in this state at which an employee or
owner performs services for the taxpayer on a regular or periodic basis during
the taxable year;
            2.   If no reporting location exists in this state for an employee
or owner under division (G)(1)(d)1. of this section, the reporting location in
this state at which the employee's or owner's supervisor regularly or
periodically reports during the taxable year;
            3.   If no reporting location exists in this state for an employee
or owner under division (G)(1)(d)1. or 2. of this section, the location that
the taxpayer otherwise assigns as the employee's or owner's qualifying
reporting location, provided the assignment is made in good faith and is
recorded and maintained in the taxpayer's business records. A taxpayer may
change the qualifying reporting location designated for an employee or owner
under this division at any time.
      (2)   For tax years ending on or after December 31, 2023, a taxpayer may
elect to apply the provisions of this division to the apportionment of its net
profit from a business or profession. For taxpayers that make this election,
the provisions of division (F) of this section apply to such apportionment
except as otherwise provided in this division.
         A taxpayer shall make the election allowed under this division in
writing on or with the taxpayer's net profit return or, if applicable, a timely
filed amended net profit return or a timely filed appeal of an assessment. The
election applies to the taxable year for which that return or appeal is filed
and for all subsequent taxable years, until the taxpayer revokes the election.
         The taxpayer shall make the initial election with the tax
administrator of each municipal corporation with which, after applying the
apportionment provisions authorized in this division, the taxpayer is required
to file a net profit tax return for that taxable year. A taxpayer shall not be
required to notify the tax administrator of a municipal corporation in which a
qualifying remote employee's or owner's qualifying remote work location is
located, unless the taxpayer is otherwise required to file a net profit return
with that municipal corporation due to business operations that are unrelated
to the employee's or owner's activity at the qualifying remote work location.
         After the taxpayer makes the initial election, the election applies to
every municipal corporation in which the taxpayer conducts business. The
taxpayer shall not be required to file a net profit return with a municipal
corporation solely because a qualifying remote employee's or owner's qualifying
remote work location is located in such municipal corporation.
         Nothing in this division prohibits a taxpayer from making a new
election under this division after properly revoking a prior election.
      (3)   For the purpose of calculating the ratios described in division (F)
(1) of this section, all of the following apply to a taxpayer that has made the
election described in division (G)(2) of this section:
         (a)   For the purpose of division (F)(1)(a) of this section, the
average original cost of any tangible personal property used by a qualifying
remote employee or owner at that individual's qualifying remote work location
shall be sitused to that individual's qualifying reporting location.
         (b)   For the purpose of division (F)(1)(b) of this section, any
wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during the taxable period to a
qualifying remote employee or owner for services performed at that individual's
qualifying remote work location shall be sitused to that individual's
qualifying reporting location.
         (c)   For the purpose of division (F)(1)(c) of this section, and
notwithstanding division (F)(4) of this section, any gross receipts of the
business or profession from services performed during the taxable period by a
qualifying remote employee or owner for services performed at that individual's
qualifying remote work location shall be sitused to that individual's
qualifying reporting location.
      (4)   Nothing in this division prevents a taxpayer from requesting, or a
tax administrator from requiring, that the taxpayer use, with respect to all or
a portion of the income of the taxpayer, an alternative apportionment method as
described in division (F)(2) of this section. However, a tax administrator
shall not require an alternative apportionment method in such a manner that it
would require a taxpayer to file a net profit return with a municipal
corporation solely because a qualifying remote employee's or owner's qualifying
remote work location is located in that municipal corporation.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, nothing in this
division is intended to affect the withholding of taxes on qualifying wages
pursuant to Section D of this Chapter.
(Ord. 3629. Passed 2-27-18; Ord. 3759. Passed 11-28-23.)
§ 94.6.04 INFORMATION PROVIDED TO TAX ADMINISTRATORS; CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   Any information gained as a result of returns, investigations,
hearings, or verifications required or authorized by sections 94.6.1 to
94.6.16 of the Codified Ordinances is confidential, and no person shall
disclose such information, except for official purposes, in accordance with a
proper judicial order, or as provided in section 4123.271 or 5703.21 of the
Revised Code. The tax commissioner may furnish the internal revenue service
with copies of returns filed. This section does not prohibit the publication of
statistics in a form which does not disclose information with respect to
particular taxpayers.
   (B)   In May and November of each year, the tax commissioner shall provide
the City of West Carrollton tax administrator with the following information
for every taxpayer that filed tax returns with the commissioner under sections
to
94.6.16 of the Codified Ordinances and that had municipal taxable income
apportionable to the City of West Carrollton under this chapter for any prior
year:
      (1)   The taxpayer's name, address, and federal employer identification
number;
      (2)   The taxpayer's apportionment ratio for, and amount of municipal
taxable income apportionable to, the City of West Carrollton pursuant to
section
94.5.061 of the Codified Ordinances;
      (3)   The amount of any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward utilized
by the taxpayer;
      (4)   Whether the taxpayer requested that any overpayment be carried
forward to a future taxable year;
      (5)   The amount of any credit claimed under section 718.94 of the
Revised Code.
   (C)   Not later than thirty days after each distribution made to municipal
corporations under section 718.83 of the Revised Code, the tax commissioner
shall provide to the City of West Carrollton a report stating the name and
federal identification number of every taxpayer that made estimated payments
that are attributable to the City of West Carrollton and the amount of each
such taxpayer's estimated payment.
   (D)   The information described under divisions (B) and (C) of this section
shall be provided to the individual or individuals designated by the City of
West Carrollton tax administrator under section 718.83(D) of the Revised Code.
   (E)   (1)   The City of West Carrollton expects that the tax commissioner
will, pursuant to section 718.84(E) of the Revised Code, provide tax returns
and other information it receives in the performance of its administration of
the municipal net profits tax for taxpayers making the election provided in
section
94.6.01 of the Codified Ordinances. The tax administrator shall review these
returns and information, as well as the information received pursuant to
divisions (B) and (C) of this section, and has discretion to refer any taxpayer
for audit by the tax commissioner. Such referral shall be made on a form
prescribed by the commissioner and shall include any information that forms the
basis for the referral.
      (2)   if the tax commissioner declines to audit a taxpayer referred by
the tax administrator under this section, the City of West Carrollton reserves
its right to pursue any and all remedies, whether at law or in equity, to
ensure that the correct tax liability has been calculated and paid by the
taxpayer. (Ord. 3629. Passed 2-27-18.)
§ 94.6.05 FILING OF ANNUAL RETURN; REMITTANCE; DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   For each taxable year, every taxpayer shall file an annual
return. Such return, along with the amount of tax shown to be due on the return
less the amount paid for the taxable year under section
94.5.09 of the Codified Ordinances, shall be submitted to the tax commissioner,
on a form and in the manner prescribed by the commissioner, on or before the
fifteenth day of the fourth month following the end of the taxpayer's taxable
year.
      (2)   If a taxpayer has multiple taxable years ending within one calendar
year, the taxpayer shall aggregate the facts and figures necessary to compute
the tax due under this chapter, in accordance with the West Carrollton Codified
Ordinances onto its annual return.
      (3)   The remittance shall be made payable to the treasurer of state and
in the form prescribed by the tax commissioner. If the amount payable with the
tax return is ten dollars or less, no remittance is required.
   (B)   (1)   Each return required to be filed under this section shall
contain the signature of the taxpayer or the taxpayer's duly authorized agent
and of the person who prepared the return for the taxpayer, and shall include
the taxpayer's identification number. Each return shall be verified by a
declaration under penalty of perjury.
      (2)   (a)   The tax commissioner may require a taxpayer to include, with
each annual tax return, amended return, or request for refund filed with the
commissioner under sections
94.6.01 to 94.6.16 of the Codified Ordinances, copies of any relevant documents
or other information.
         (b)   A taxpayer that files an annual tax return electronically
through the Ohio business gateway or in another manner as prescribed by the tax
commissioner shall either submit the documents required under this division
electronically as prescribed at the time of filing or, if electronic submission
is not available, mail the documents to the tax commissioner. The department of
taxation shall publish a method of electronically submitting the documents
required under this division on or before January 1, 2019.
      (3)   After a taxpayer files a tax return, the tax commissioner may
request, and the taxpayer shall provide, any information, statements, or
documents required to determine and verify the taxpayer's municipal income tax.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   Any taxpayer that has duly requested an automatic
extension for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax return shall
automatically receive an extension for the filing of a tax return with the
commissioner under this section. The extended due date of the return shall be
the fifteenth day of the tenth month after the last day of the taxable year to
which the return relates.
         (b)   A taxpayer that has not requested or received a six-month
extension for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax return may request that
the commissioner grant the taxpayer a six-month extension of the date for
filing the taxpayer's municipal income tax return. If the commissioner receives
the request on or before the date the municipal income tax return is due, the
commissioner shall grant the taxpayer's extension request.
         (c)   An extension of time to file under division (D)(1) of this
section is not an extension of the time to pay any tax due unless the tax
commissioner grants an extension of that date.
      (2)   If the commissioner considers it necessary in order to ensure
payment of a tax imposed in accordance with the West Carrollton Codified
Ordinances, the commissioner may require taxpayers to file returns and make
payments otherwise than as provided in this section, including taxpayers not
otherwise required to file annual returns.
   (E)   Each return required to be filed in accordance with this section shall
include a box that the taxpayer may check to authorize another person,
including a tax return preparer who prepared the return, to communicate with
the tax commissioner about matters pertaining to the return. The return or
instructions accompanying the return shall indicate that by checking the box
the taxpayer authorizes the commissioner to contact the preparer or other
person concerning questions that arise during the examination or other review
of the return and authorizes the preparer or other person only to provide the
commissioner with information that is missing from the return, to contact the
commissioner for information about the examination or other review of the
return or the status of the taxpayer's refund or payments, and to respond to
notices about mathematical errors, offsets, or return preparation that the
taxpayer has received from the commissioner and has shown to the preparer or
other person.
   (F)   When income tax returns or other documents require the signature of a
tax return preparer, the tax commissioner shall accept a facsimile or
electronic version of such a signature in lieu of a manual signature.
(Ord. 3629. Passed 2-27-18.)
§ 94.6.06 ELECTRONIC FILING.
   (A)   All taxpayers that have made the election allowed under section
94.6.01 of the Codified Ordinances shall file any tax return or extension for
filing a tax return, and shall make payment of amounts shown to be due on such
returns, electronically, either through the Ohio business gateway or in another
manner as prescribed by the tax commissioner.
   (B)   A taxpayer may apply to the commissioner, on a form prescribed by the
commissioner, to be excused from the requirement to file returns and make
payments electronically. For good cause shown, the commissioner may excuse the
applicant from the requirement and permit the applicant to file the returns or
make the payments by nonelectronic means.
   (C)   The tax commissioner may adopt rules establishing the following:
      (1)   The format of documents to be used by taxpayers to file returns and
make payments by electronic means;
      (2)   The information taxpayers must submit when filing tax returns by
electronic means. (Ord. 3629. Passed 2-27-18.)
§ 94.6.07 CONSOLIDATED RETURNS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Affiliated group of corporations" means an affiliated group as
defined in section 1504 of the Internal Revenue Code, except that, if such a
group includes at least one incumbent local exchange carrier that is primarily
engaged in the business of providing local exchange telephone service in this
state, the affiliated group shall not include any incumbent local exchange
carrier that would otherwise be included in the group.
      (2)   "Consolidated federal income tax return" means a consolidated
return filed for federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 1501 of the
Internal Revenue Code.
      (3)   "Consolidated federal taxable income" means the consolidated
taxable income of an affiliated group of corporations, as computed for the
purposes of filing a consolidated federal income tax return, before
consideration of net operating losses or special deductions. "Consolidated
federal taxable income" does not include income or loss of an incumbent local
exchange carrier that is excluded from the affiliated group under division (A)
(1) of this section.
      (4)   "Incumbent local exchange carrier" has the same meaning as in
section 4927.01 of the Revised Code.
      (5)   "Local exchange telephone service" has the same meaning as in
section 5727.01 of the Revised Code.
   (B)   (1)   A taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of
corporations may elect to file a consolidated tax return for a taxable year if
at least one member of the affiliated group of corporations is subject to
municipal income tax in that taxable year and if the affiliated group of
corporations filed a consolidated federal income tax return with respect to
that taxable year. The election is binding for a five-year period beginning
with the first taxable year of the initial election unless a change in the
reporting method is required under federal law. The election continues to be
binding for each subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to
discontinue filing consolidated tax returns under division (B)(2) of this
section or a taxpayer receives permission from the tax commissioner. The tax
commissioner shall approve such a request for good cause shown.
      (2)   An election to discontinue filing consolidated tax returns under
this section must be made on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month of
the year following the last year of a five-year consolidated tax return
election period in effect under division (B)(1) of this section. The election
to discontinue filing a consolidated tax return is binding for a five-year
period beginning with the first taxable year of the election.
      (3)   An election made under division (B)(1) or (2) of this section is
binding on all members of the affiliated group of corporations subject to a
municipal income tax.
      (4)   When a taxpayer makes the election allowed under section
94.6.01 of the Codified Ordinances, a valid election made by the taxpayer under
division (B)(1) or (2) of section
94.6.07 of the Codified Ordinances is binding upon the tax commissioner for the
remainder of the five-year period.
      (5)   When an election made under section
94.6.01 of the Codified Ordinances is terminated, a valid election made under
this section is binding upon the tax administrator for the remainder of the
five-year period.
   (C)   A taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations
that filed a consolidated federal income tax return for a taxable year shall
file a consolidated tax return for that taxable year if the tax commissioner
determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, that intercompany transactions
have not been conducted at arm's length and that there has been a distortive
shifting of income or expenses with regard to allocation of net profits to a
municipal corporation. A taxpayer that is required to file a consolidated tax
return for a taxable year shall file a consolidated tax return for all
subsequent taxable years unless the taxpayer requests and receives written
permission from the commissioner to file a separate return or a taxpayer has
experienced a change in circumstances.
   (D)   A taxpayer shall prepare a consolidated tax return in the same manner
as is required under the United States department of treasury regulations that
prescribe procedures for the preparation of the consolidated federal income tax
return required to be filed by the common parent of the affiliated group of
which the taxpayer is a member.
   (E)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (E)(2), (3), and (4)
of this section, corporations that file a consolidated tax return shall compute
adjusted federal taxable income, as defined in section
94.6.02 of the Codified Ordinances, by substituting "consolidated federal
taxable income" for "federal taxable income" wherever "federal taxable income"
appears in that division and by substituting "an affiliated group of
corporation's" for "a C corporation's" wherever "a C corporation's" appears in
that division.
      (2)   No corporation filing a consolidated tax return shall make any
adjustment otherwise required under division (B) of section
94.6.07 of the Codified Ordinances to the extent that the item of income or
deduction otherwise subject to the adjustment has been eliminated or
consolidated in the computation of consolidated federal taxable income.
      (3)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having at least
eighty per cent of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled,
directly or indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in
that affiliated group's consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year,
the corporation filing a consolidated tax return shall do one of the following
with respect to that pass-through entity's net profit or loss for that taxable
year:
         (a)   Exclude the pass-through entity's net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in section
94.6.07 of the Codified Ordinances, exclude the property, payroll, and gross
receipts of the pass-through entity in the computation of the affiliated
group's net profit sitused to a municipal corporation. If the entity's net
profit or loss is so excluded, the entity shall be subject to taxation as a
separate taxpayer on the basis of the entity's net profits that would otherwise
be included in the consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
         (b)   Include the pass-through entity's net profit or loss in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in section
94.6.07 of the Codified Ordinances, include the property, payroll, and gross
receipts of the pass-through entity in the computation of the affiliated
group's net profit sitused to a municipal corporation. If the entity's net
profit or loss is so included, the entity shall not be subject to taxation as a
separate taxpayer on the basis of the entity's net profits that are included in
the consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
      (4)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having less than
eighty per cent of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled,
directly or indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in
that affiliated group's consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year,
all of the following shall apply:
         (a)   The corporation filing the consolidated tax return shall exclude
the pass-through entity's net profit or loss from the consolidated federal
taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the purposes of making the
computations required in section
94.6.07 of the Codified Ordinances, exclude the property, payroll, and gross
receipts of the pass-through entity in the computation of the affiliated
group's net profit sitused to a municipal corporation;
         (b)   The pass-through entity shall be subject to municipal income
taxation as a separate taxpayer in accordance with sections 94.6.1 to
 94.6.16 of the Codified Ordinances on the basis of the entity's net profits
that would otherwise be included in the consolidated federal taxable income of
the affiliated group.
   (F)   Corporations filing a consolidated tax return shall make the
computations required under section
94.6.07 of the Codified Ordinances by substituting "consolidated federal
taxable income attributable to" for "net profit from" wherever "net profit
from" appears in that section and by substituting "affiliated group of
corporations" for "taxpayer" wherever "taxpayer" appears in that section.
   (G)   Each corporation filing a consolidated tax return is jointly and
severally liable for any tax, interest, penalties, fines, charges, or other
amounts applicable under section 94.6.1 to
 94.6.16 of the Codified Ordinances or Chapter 5703. of the Revised Code to the
corporation, an affiliated group of which the corporation is a member for any
portion of the taxable year, or any one or more members of such an affiliated
group. (Ord. 3629. Passed 2-27-18.)
§ 94.6.08 FAILURE TO PAY TAX.
   If a taxpayer that has made the election allowed under 94.6.01 of the
Codified Ordinances fails to pay any tax as required under sections 94.6.1 to
94.6.16 of the Codified Ordinances, or any portion of that tax, on or before
the date prescribed for its payment, interest shall be assessed, collected, and
paid, in the same manner as the tax, upon such unpaid amount at the rate per
annum prescribed by section 5703.47 of the Revised Code from the date
prescribed for its payment until it is paid or until the date an assessment is
issued under section
94.6.11 of the Codified Ordinances, whichever occurs first.
(Ord. 3629. Passed 2-27-18.)
§ 94.6.09 DECLARATION OF ESTIMATED TAXES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Combined tax liability" means the total amount of a taxpayer's
income tax liabilities to all municipal corporations in this state for a
taxable year.
      (2)   "Estimated taxes" means the amount that the taxpayer reasonably
estimates to be the taxpayer's combined tax liability for the current taxable
year.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(4) of this section, every
taxpayer shall make a declaration of estimated taxes for the current taxable
year, on the form prescribed by the tax commissioner, if the amount payable as
estimated taxes is at least two hundred dollars.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(4) of this section, a taxpayer
having a taxable year of less than twelve months shall make a declaration under
rules prescribed by the commissioner.
      (3)   The declaration of estimated taxes shall be filed on or before the
fifteenth day of the fourth month after the beginning of the taxable year or on
or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the taxpayer becomes
subject to tax for the first time.
      (4)   The tax commissioner may waive the requirement for filing a
declaration of estimated taxes for any class of taxpayers after finding that
the waiver is reasonable and proper in view of administrative costs and other
factors.
   (C)   Each taxpayer shall file the declaration of estimated taxes with, and
remit estimated taxes to, the tax commissioner at the times and in the amounts
prescribed in division (C)(1) of this section. Remitted taxes shall be made
payable to the treasurer of state.
      (1)   The required portion of the combined tax liability for the taxable
year that shall be paid through estimated taxes shall be as follows:
         (a)   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, twenty-two and one-half per cent of the combined
tax liability for the taxable year;
         (b)   On or before the fifteenth day of the sixth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, forty-five per cent of the combined tax
liability for the taxable year;
         (c)   On or before the fifteenth day of the ninth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, sixty-seven and one-half per cent of the
combined tax liability for the taxable year;
         (d)   On or before the fifteenth day of the twelfth month of the
taxable year, ninety per cent of the combined tax liability for the taxable
year.
      (2)   If the taxpayer determines that its declaration of estimated taxes
will not accurately reflect the taxpayer's tax liability for the taxable year,
the taxpayer shall increase or decrease, as appropriate, its subsequent
payments in equal installments to result in a more accurate payment of
estimated taxes.
      (3)   (a)   Each taxpayer shall report on the declaration of estimated
taxes the portion of the remittance that the taxpayer estimates that it owes to
each municipal corporation for the taxable year.
         (b)   Upon receiving a payment of estimated taxes under this section,
the commissioner shall immediately forward the payment to the treasurer of
state. The treasurer shall credit the payment in the same manner as in division
(B) of section 718.85 of the Revised Code.
   (D)   (1)   In the case of any underpayment of estimated taxes, there shall
be added to the taxes an amount determined at the rate per annum prescribed by
section 5703.47 of the Revised Code upon the amount of underpayment for the
period of underpayment, unless the underpayment is due to reasonable cause as
described in division (E) of this section. The amount of the underpayment shall
be determined as follows:
         (a)   For the first payment of estimated taxes each year, twenty-two
and one-half per cent of the combined tax liability, less the amount of taxes
paid by the date prescribed for that payment;
         (b)   For the second payment of estimated taxes each year, forty-five
per cent of the combined tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the
date prescribed for that payment;
         (c)   For the third payment of estimated taxes each year, sixty-seven
and one-half per cent of the combined tax liability, less the amount of taxes
paid by the date prescribed for that payment;
         (d)   For the fourth payment of estimated taxes each year, ninety per
cent of the combined tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date
prescribed for that payment.
      (2)   The period of the underpayment shall run from the day the estimated
payment was required to be made to the date on which the payment is made. For
purposes of this section, a payment of estimated taxes on or before any payment
date shall be considered a payment of any previous underpayment only to the
extent the payment of estimated taxes exceeds the amount of the payment
presently due.
      (3)   All amounts collected under this section shall be considered as
taxes collected under sections 94.6.1 to
94.6.16 of the Codified Ordinances and shall be credited and distributed to
municipal corporations in accordance with section 718.83 of the Revised Code.
   (E)   An underpayment of any portion of a combined tax liability shall be
due to reasonable cause and the penalty imposed by this section shall not be
added to the taxes for the taxable year if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least ninety
per cent of the combined tax liability for the current taxable year, determined
by annualizing the income received during the year up to the end of the month
immediately preceding the month in which the payment is due.
      (2)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least one
hundred per cent of the tax liability shown on the return of the taxpayer for
the preceding taxable year, provided that the immediately preceding taxable
year reflected a period of twelve months and the taxpayer filed a municipal
income tax return for that year.
(Ord. 3629. Passed 2-27-18.)
§ 94.6.10 ADDITIONAL PENALTIES.
   (A)   In addition to any other penalty imposed by sections 94.6.1 to
94.6.16 of the Codified Ordinances or Chapter 5703. of the Revised Code, the
following penalties shall apply:
      (1)   If a taxpayer required to file a tax return under sections 94.6.1
to
94.6.16 of the Codified Ordinances fails to make and file the return within the
time prescribed, including any extensions of time granted by the tax
commissioner, the commissioner may impose a penalty not exceeding twenty-five
dollars per month or fraction of a month, for each month or fraction of a month
elapsing between the due date, including extensions of the due date, and the
date on which the return is filed. The aggregate penalty, per instance, under
this division shall not exceed one hundred fifty dollars.
      (2)   If a person required to file a tax return electronically under
sections 94.6.1 to
94.6.16 of the Codified Ordinances fails to do so, the commissioner may impose
a penalty not to exceed the following:
         (a)   For each of the first two failures, five per cent of the amount
required to be reported on the return;
         (b)   For the third and any subsequent failure, ten per cent of the
amount required to be reported on the return.
      (3)   If a taxpayer that has made the election allowed under section
94.6.01 of the Codified Ordinances fails to timely pay an amount of tax
required to be paid under this chapter, the commissioner may impose a penalty
equal to fifteen per cent of the amount not timely paid.
      (4)   If a taxpayer files what purports to be a tax return required by
sections 94.6.1 to
94.6.16 of the Codified Ordinances that does not contain information upon which
the substantial correctness of the return may be judged or contains information
that on its face indicates that the return is substantially incorrect, and the
filing of the return in that manner is due to a position that is frivolous or a
desire that is apparent from the return to delay or impede the administration
of sections 94.6.1 to
94.6.16 of the Codified Ordinances, a penalty of up to five hundred dollars may
be imposed.
      (5)   If a taxpayer makes a fraudulent attempt to evade the reporting or
payment of the tax required to be shown on any return required under sections
94.6.1 to
94.6.16 of the Codified Ordinances, a penalty may be imposed not exceeding the
greater of one thousand dollars or one hundred per cent of the tax required to
be shown on the return.
      (6)   If any person makes a false or fraudulent claim for a refund under
the West Carrollton Codified Ordinances, a penalty may be imposed not exceeding
the greater of one thousand dollars or one hundred per cent of the claim. Any
penalty imposed under this division, any refund issued on the claim, and
interest on any refund from the date of the refund, may be assessed under
section
94.6.11 of the Codified Ordinances without regard to any time limitation for
the assessment imposed by division (A) of that section.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the tax required to be shown on a tax
return shall be reduced by the amount of any part of the tax paid on or before
the date, including any extensions of the date, prescribed for filing the
return.
   (C)   Each penalty imposed under this section shall be in addition to any
other penalty imposed under this section. All or part of any penalty imposed
under this section may be abated by the tax commissioner. The commissioner may
adopt rules governing the imposition and abatement of such penalties.
   (D)   All amounts collected under this section shall be considered as taxes
collected under sections 94.6.1 to
94.6.16 of the Codified Ordinances and shall be credited and distributed to
municipal corporations in the same proportion as the underlying tax liability
is required to be distributed to such municipal corporations under section
718.83 of the Revised Code.
(Ord. 3629. Passed 2-27-18.)
§ 94.6.11 ASSESSMENTS AGAINST TAXPAYER.
   (A)   If any taxpayer required to file a return under section 94.6.1 to
94.6.16 of the Codified Ordinances fails to file the return within the time
prescribed, files an incorrect return, or fails to remit the full amount of the
tax due for the period covered by the return, the tax commissioner may make an
assessment against the taxpayer for any deficiency for the period for which the
return or tax is due, based upon any information in the commissioner's
possession.
      The tax commissioner shall not make or issue an assessment against a
taxpayer more than three years after the later of the date the return subject
to assessment was required to be filed or the date the return was filed. Such
time limit may be extended if both the taxpayer and the commissioner consent in
writing to the extension. Any such extension shall extend the three-year time
limit in section
94.5.19 of the Codified Ordinances for the same period of time. There shall be
no bar or limit to an assessment against a taxpayer that fails to file a return
subject to assessment as required by sections 94.6.1 to
94.6.16 of the Codified Ordinances, or that files a fraudulent return. The
commissioner shall give the taxpayer assessed written notice of the assessment
as provided in section 5703.37 of the Revised Code. With the notice, the
commissioner shall provide instructions on how to petition for reassessment and
request a hearing on the petition.
   (B)   Unless the taxpayer assessed files with the tax commissioner within
sixty days after service of the notice of assessment, either personally or by
certified mail, a written petition for reassessment signed by the authorized
agent of the taxpayer assessed having knowledge of the facts, the assessment
becomes final, and the amount of the assessment is due and payable from the
taxpayer to the treasurer of state. The petition shall indicate the taxpayer's
objections, but additional objections may be raised in writing if received by
the commissioner prior to the date shown on the final determination. If the
petition has been properly filed, the commissioner shall proceed under section
5703.60 of the Revised Code.
   (C)   After an assessment becomes final, if any portion of the assessment
remains unpaid, including accrued interest, a certified copy of the tax
commissioner's entry making the assessment final may be filed in the office of
the clerk of the court of common pleas in the county in which the taxpayer has
an office or place of business in this state, the county in which the
taxpayer's statutory agent is located, or Franklin county.
      Immediately upon the filing of the entry, the clerk shall enter a
judgment against the taxpayer assessed in the amount shown on the entry. The
judgment may be filed by the clerk in a loose-leaf book entitled "special
judgments for municipal income taxes," and shall have the same effect as other
judgments. Execution shall issue upon the judgment upon the request of the tax
commissioner, and all laws applicable to sales on execution shall apply to
sales made under the judgment.
      If the assessment is not paid in its entirety within sixty days after the
day the assessment was issued, the portion of the assessment consisting of tax
due shall bear interest at the rate per annum prescribed by section 5703.47 of
the Revised Code from the day the commissioner issues the assessment until the
assessment is paid or until it is certified to the attorney general for
collection under section 131.02 of the Revised Code, whichever comes first. If
the unpaid portion of the assessment is certified to the attorney general for
collection, the entire unpaid portion of the assessment shall bear interest at
the rate per annum prescribed by section 5703.47 of the Revised Code from the
date of certification until the date it is paid in its entirety. Interest shall
be paid in the same manner as the tax and may be collected by issuing an
assessment under this section.
   (D)   All money collected under this section shall be credited to the
municipal income tax fund and distributed to the municipal corporation to which
the money is owed based on the assessment issued under this section.
   (E)   If the tax commissioner believes that collection of the tax will be
jeopardized unless proceedings to collect or secure collection of the tax are
instituted without delay, the commissioner may issue a jeopardy assessment
against the taxpayer liable for the tax. Immediately upon the issuance of the
jeopardy assessment, the commissioner shall file an entry with the clerk of the
court of common pleas in the manner prescribed by division (C) of this section.
Notice of the jeopardy assessment shall be served on the taxpayer assessed or
the taxpayer's legal representative in the manner provided in section 5703.37
of the Revised Code within five days of the filing of the entry with the clerk.
The total amount assessed is immediately due and payable, unless the taxpayer
assessed files a petition for reassessment in accordance with division (B) of
this section and provides security in a form satisfactory to the commissioner
and in an amount sufficient to satisfy the unpaid balance of the assessment.
Full or partial payment of the assessment does not prejudice the commissioner's
consideration of the petition for reassessment.
   (F)   Notwithstanding the fact that a petition for reassessment is pending,
the taxpayer may pay all or a portion of the assessment that is the subject of
the petition. The acceptance of a payment by the treasurer of state does not
prejudice any claim for refund upon final determination of the petition.
      If upon final determination of the petition an error in the assessment is
corrected by the tax commissioner, upon petition so filed or pursuant to a
decision of the board of tax appeals or any court to which the determination or
decision has been appealed, so that the amount due from the taxpayer under the
corrected assessment is less than the portion paid, there shall be issued to
the taxpayer, its assigns, or legal representative a refund in the amount of
the overpayment as provided by section 95.5.19 of the Codified Ordinances, with
interest on that amount as provided by that section.
(Ord. 3629. Passed 2-27-18.)
§ 94.6.12 REFUND APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   An application to refund to a taxpayer the amount of taxes paid on any
illegal, erroneous, or excessive payment of tax under sections 94.6.1 to
94.6.16 of the Codified Ordinances, including assessments, shall be filed with
the tax commissioner within three years after the date of the illegal,
erroneous, or excessive payment of the tax, or within any additional period
allowed by division (A) of section
94.6.11 of the Codified Ordinances. The application shall be filed in the form
prescribed by the tax commissioner.
   (B)   (1)   On the filing of a refund application, the tax commissioner
shall determine the amount of refund to which the applicant is entitled. The
amount determined shall be based on the amount overpaid per return or
assessment. If the amount is greater than ten dollars and not less than that
claimed, the commissioner shall certify that amount to the director of budget
and management and the treasurer of state for payment from the tax refund fund
created in section 5703.052 of the Revised Code. If the amount is greater than
ten dollars but less than that claimed, the commissioner shall proceed in
accordance with section 5703.70 of the Revised Code.
      (2)   Upon issuance of a refund under this section, the commissioner
shall notify each municipal corporation of the amount refunded to the taxpayer
attributable to that municipal corporation, which shall be deducted from the
municipal corporation's next distribution under section 718.83 of the Revised
Code.
   (C)   Any portion of a refund determined under division (B) of this section
that is not issued within ninety days after such determination shall bear
interest at the rate per annum prescribed by section 5703.47 of the Revised
Code from the ninety-first day after such determination until the day the
refund is paid or credited. On an illegal or erroneous assessment, interest
shall be paid at that rate from the date of payment on the illegal or erroneous
assessment until the day the refund is paid or credited.
(Ord. 3629. Passed 2-27-18.)
§ 94.6.13 AMENDED RETURNS.
   (A)   If any of the facts, figures, computations, or attachments required in
an annual return filed by a taxpayer that has made the election allowed under
section
94.6.01 of the Codified Ordinances and used to determine the tax due under
sections 94.6.1 to
94.6.16 of the Codified Ordinances must be altered as the result of an
adjustment to the taxpayer's federal income tax return, whether initiated by
the taxpayer or the internal revenue service, and such alteration affects the
taxpayer's tax liability under those sections, the taxpayer shall file an
amended return with the tax commissioner in such form as the commissioner
requires. The amended return shall be filed not later than sixty days after the
adjustment is agreed upon or finally determined for federal income tax purposes
or after any federal income tax deficiency or refund, or the abatement or
credit resulting therefrom, has been assessed or paid, whichever occurs first.
If a taxpayer intends to file an amended consolidated municipal income tax
return, or to amend its type of return from a separate return to a consolidated
return, based on the taxpayer's consolidated federal income tax return, the
taxpayer shall notify the commissioner before filing the amended return.
   (B)   In the case of an underpayment, the amended return shall be
accompanied by payment of any combined additional tax due together with any
penalty and interest thereon. An amended return required by this section is a
return subject to assessment under section
94.6.11 of the Codified Ordinances for the purpose of assessing any additional
tax due under this section, together with any applicable penalty and interest.
The amended return shall not reopen those facts, figures, computations, or
attachments from a previously filed return no longer subject to assessment that
are not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the
taxpayer's federal tax return.
   (C)   In the case of an overpayment, an application for refund may be filed
under this division within the sixty-day period prescribed for filing the
amended return, even if that period extends beyond the period prescribed in
section
94.6.12 of the Codified Ordinances, if the application otherwise conforms to
the requirements of that section. An application filed under this division
shall claim refund of overpayments resulting from alterations to only those
facts, figures, computations, or attachments required in the taxpayer's annual
return that are affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to
the taxpayer's federal income tax return unless it is also filed within the
time prescribed in section
94.6.12 of the Codified Ordinances. The application shall not reopen those
facts, figures, computations, or attachments that are not affected, either
directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the taxpayer's federal income tax
return.
(Ord. 3629. Passed 2-27-18.)
§ 94.6.14 EXAMINATION OF RECORDS AND OTHER DOCUMENTS AND PERSONS.
   (A)   The tax commissioner, or any authorized agent or employee thereof, may
examine the books, papers, records, and federal and state income tax returns of
any taxpayer or other person that is subject to sections 94.6.1 to
94.6.16 of the Codified Ordinances for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of
any return made or, if no return was filed, to ascertain the tax due as
required under those sections. Upon written request by the commissioner or a
duly authorized agent or employee thereof, every taxpayer or other person
subject to this section is required to furnish the opportunity for the
commissioner, authorized agent, or employee to investigate and examine such
books, papers, records, and federal and state income tax returns at a
reasonable time and place designated in the request.
   (B)   The records and other documents of any taxpayer or other person that
is subject to sections 94.6.1 to
94.6.16 of the Codified Ordinances shall be open to the tax commissioner's
inspection during business hours and shall be preserved for a period of six
years following the end of the taxable year to which the records or documents
relate, unless the commissioner, in writing, consents to their destruction
within that period, or by order requires that they be kept longer. The
commissioner may require any person, by notice served on that person, to keep
such records as the commissioner determines necessary to show whether or not
that person is liable, and the extent of such liability, for the income tax
levied by a municipal corporation.
   (C)   The tax commissioner may examine under oath any person that the
commissioner reasonably believes has knowledge concerning any income that was
or would have been returned for taxation or any transaction tending to affect
such income. The commissioner may, for this purpose, compel any such person to
attend a hearing or examination and to produce any books, papers, records, and
federal income tax returns in such person's possession or control. The person
may be assisted or represented by an attorney, accountant, bookkeeper, or other
tax practitioner at any such hearing or examination. This division does not
authorize the practice of law by a person who is not an attorney.
   (D)   No person issued written notice by the tax commissioner compelling
attendance at a hearing or examination or the production of books, papers,
records, or federal income tax returns under this section shall fail to comply.
(Ord. 3629. Passed 2-27-18.)
§ 94.6.15 CREDITS.
   (A)   A credit, granted by resolution or ordinance of the City of West
Carrollton pursuant to section
94.5.064 or
94.5.065 of the Codified Ordinances, shall be available to a taxpayer that has
made the election allowed under section
94.6.01 of the Codified Ordinances, against the municipal corporation's tax on
income. A municipal corporation shall submit the following information to the
tax commissioner on or before the later of January 31, 2018, or the thirty-
first day of January of the first year in which the taxpayer is eligible to
receive the credit:
      (1)   A copy of the agreement entered into by the City of West Carrollton
and taxpayer under section
94.5.064 or
94.5.065 of the Codified Ordinances;
      (2)   A copy of the ordinance or resolution authorizing the agreement
entered into between the City of West Carrollton and the taxpayer.
   (B)   (1)   Each taxpayer that claims a credit shall submit, with the
taxpayer's tax return, documentation issued by the City of West Carrollton
granting the credit that confirms the eligibility of the taxpayer for the
credit, the amount of the credit for which the taxpayer is eligible, and the
tax year to which the credit is to be applied.
      (2)   Such documentation shall be provided in the form prescribed by the
tax commissioner.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize the tax
commissioner to enter into an agreement with a taxpayer to grant a credit, to
determine if a taxpayer meets the conditions of a tax credit agreement entered
into by the City of West Carrollton and taxpayer under section
94.5.064 or
94.5.065 of the Codified Ordinances, or to modify the terms or conditions of
any such existing agreement.
(Ord. 3629. Passed 2-27-18.)
§ 94.6.16 RECKLESS VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, whoever recklessly
violates division (A) of section
94.6.11 of the Codified Ordinances shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree and shall be subject to a fine of not more than one thousand
dollars or imprisonment for a term of up to six months, or both.
   (B)   Each instance of access or disclosure in violation of division (A) of
section
94.6.11 of the Codified Ordinances constitutes a separate offense.
   (C)   These specific penalties shall not be construed to prevent the City of
West Carrollton from prosecuting any and all other offenses that may apply.
(Ord. 3629. Passed 2-27-18.)
CHAPTER 95: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Rates
95.01   Fees and charges related to the Parks and Recreation Department
95.02   Use and conformance with rules and regulations
95.03   Softball tournament fees
Rules and Regulations
95.10   Removal, destruction of property
95.11   Deposit of materials
95.12   Fires
95.13   Camping
95.14   Weapons
95.15   Commercial activities
95.16   Hours
95.17   Traffic
95.18   Water areas
95.19   Beer or intoxicating liquor
95.20   Horses and other animals; hunting
95.21   Applicability of other ordinances
Swimming Pool
95.30   Fees
95.99   Penalty
RATES
§ 95.01 FEES AND CHARGES RELATED TO THE PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT.
   The following fees and charges are hereby established:
         Resident   Non-Resident
   (A)   Softball Diamonds (Per Diamond):
      (1)   Reservation and clean-up deposit (refundable)   $50.00      $50.00
      (2)   Fee per field per day         50.00      70.00
      This reservation fee will automatically become the damage and clean-up
fee which will be returned if everything is in order.
   (B)   Youth Sports:
      (1)   Basketball.
      (2)   Cheerleading.
      (3)   Swim Team.
   Fees to be established by the corresponding Board of Directors with review
by Parks and Recreation Director.
   (C)   Recreation Fund Programs (70%/15%/15%):
      (1)   Contractual instructors: Fees to be established by the contractor
with review by the Parks and Recreation Director. Fifteen percent (15%) of all
fees collected shall be paid to the City’s General Fund, and fifteen percent
(15%) of all fees collected shall remain in the Recreation Fund.
      (2)   Adult sports:
         (a)   Softball.
         (b)   Volleyball.
   Fees to be established annually by the Parks and Recreation Director with
the approval of the City Manager. Fifteen percent (15%) of all fees collected
shall be paid to the City’s General Fund, and fifteen percent (15%) of all fees
collected shall remain in the Recreation Fund.
      Resident   Non-Resident
   (D)   Reservation fee and deposit for use of Senior Citizens/Community
Center:
      (1)   Deposit (refundable)
         $50.00   $50.00
      (2)   Fee
         50.00   100.00
      Both deposit and fee are required to reserve the facility. If the
facility is clean and returned to its original condition, $50.00 will be
refunded.
      Non-profit resident civic groups and churches are not required to pay the
$50.00 usage fee, but are still required to put up a $50.00 deposit.
   (E)   The resident fee will be extended to non-residents who either pay West
Carrollton City income tax or property taxes on property which they own within
the City.
(Res. 3-2005. Passed 2-8-05.)
§ 95.02 USE AND CONFORMANCE WITH RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Time and manner of use of the recreation facilities will be according to
rules and regulations established and approved by the parks and recreation
director. The right to waive fees for special events and groups shall be
recommended by the parks and recreation director, and approved by the city
manager. (Ord. 1831, passed 3-12-74) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 SOFTBALL TOURNAMENT FEES.
   The following softball tournament fees are hereby established:
   (A)   Reservation fee. $50 is required to hold the fields for each
tournament. This reservation fee will automatically become the damage and clean
up fee which will be returned if everything is in order.
   (B)   Diamond fee. $25 per diamond per day for residents; $35 per diamond
per day for nonresidents.
(Res. 7-83, passed 3-8-83; amend. Res. 6-94, passed 2-8-94)
RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 95.10 REMOVAL, DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall remove from a park or write upon, cut, mutilate,
deface, or damage any building, equipment, or other property which is owned,
leased, or otherwise controlled by the city.
   (B)   No person shall dig, move, or carry away any rock, stone, sod, sand,
earth, tree, wood, shrub, plant, flowers, or seed in a park, or trample upon,
injure, destroy, break, cut, chop, or deface any stone, tree, shrub, plant, or
flower in a park.
   (C)   No person shall remove any property, or part thereof which is owned,
leased, or otherwise controlled by the city from a park, without the written
permission of the city.
   (D)   The divisions of this section shall not apply to the city in the
development, construction, maintenance, and conservation of park areas or
activities performed in the best interest of the city.
(Ord. 2056, passed 1-24-78) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.11 DEPOSIT OF MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person shall deposit or discard in or adjacent to a park any paper,
garbage, fireplace or stove ashes, refuse, or other noxious or waste material,
other than in receptacles provided for the disposal of these materials.
   (B)   No person shall bring into a park any garbage, ashes, refuse, or other
noxious or waste material, and deposit or discard the same in or adjacent to a
park.
   (C)   No person shall, while in or adjacent to a park, discharge, throw,
drop, or cause to flow into park waters any noxious or deleterious substance,
either solid or liquid.
   (D)   The divisions of this section shall not apply to the city in the
development, construction, maintenance, and conservation of park areas or
activities performed in the best interest of the city.
(Ord. 2056, passed 1-24-78) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.12 FIRES.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Start or maintain a fire in a park, except in a fireplace or at a site
designated;
   (B)   Start a fire in a park, and leave the vicinity without fully
extinguishing the fire;
   (C)   Scatter coals other than in receptacles provided; or
   (D)   Burn wood found in a park, except as provided by the city in
designated containers. (Ord. 2056, passed 1-24-78) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.13 CAMPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to camp in a park other than in an area
designated, and with the written permission of the city.
(Ord. 2056, passed 1-24-78) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.14 WEAPONS.
   No person in a park shall carry on or about his person firearms, air or gas
guns, or discharge any missile throwing device except in areas so designated
for archery purposes. This section shall not apply to any duly appointed or
acting law enforcement officer while in the lawful performance of his duties.
(Ord. 2056, passed l-24-78) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.15 COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES.
   No person shall sell or offer for sale any article, privilege, or service in
a park, without written permission from the city.
(Ord. 2056, passed 1-24-78) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.16 HOURS.
   No person shall enter into or remain in an area of a park at the time when
the area is not open to the public. Hours shall be established by the city
manager, and posted in the park. The parks and recreation director or police
shift supervisor in charge at the time shall be authorized to close a park if
the public safety requires. (Ord. 2056, passed 1-24-78) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.17 TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Operate a motor vehicle, whether licensed or unlicensed, in a park,
except on and within the paths and roads provided for motor vehicles. No person
shall drive a motor vehicle, licensed or unlicensed, on paths or roads to be
only for the use of specific types of vehicles.
      (2)   Operate a motor vehicle in a park in excess of the posted speed
limit.
      (3)   Park any vehicle in a park except in places designated by the city
for that purpose.
      (4)   Park or leave a vehicle in an area of a park at a time when the
area is not open to the public.
      (5)   Drive a vehicle on a road or path in a park in a direction other
than the direction indicated by signs designating the road or path a one-way
road.
      (6)   Operate a motorized bicycle, commonly known as a “Moped,” as the
term is defined in R.C. § 4511.01(G), on lands, paved walks, or paths on any
property owned or controlled by the city, except within those areas
specifically designated for motorized vehicular traffic.
      (7)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to vehicles used in
the maintenance of city property, nor to city vehicles operated on city
property by city employees, nor to vehicles operated on city property pursuant
to a public event sponsored or approved by the city, nor to emergency or police
vehicles.
   (B)   Any vehicle parked in violation of this section may be removed by a
police officer to the nearest garage or other place of safety. (Ord. 2056,
passed 1-24-78) Penalty, see §
95.99
Cross-reference:
   Use of motor vehicles in city parks, §
72.41
§ 95.18 WATER AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to swim in any park pond, or to operate
any boat on any park ponds, except with written permission.
(Ord. 2056, passed 1-24-78) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.19 BEER OR INTOXICATING LIQUOR.
   (A)   No person shall sell or consume any intoxicating liquor or beer in or
upon a city owned or controlled park, playground, building, or other premises.
   (B)   No person shall possess or have control over any intoxicating liquor
or beer in or upon any city owned or controlled park, playground, building, or
other premises. (Ord. 2056, passed 1-24-78) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.20 HORSES AND OTHER ANIMALS; HUNTING.
   (A)   No person being the owner of or having charge or care of a horse,
mule, jackass, or other animal, shall take them or permit them to be in or upon
any city owned or operated park or recreational facility.
   (B)   No person shall hunt, trap, or in any other way abuse, molest, injure,
or chase or destroy any animal or bird within a park. This section shall not
apply to any public safety or humane society officers acting within the scope
of their authority.
(Ord. 2056, passed 1-24-78) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.21 APPLICABILITY OF OTHER ORDINANCES.
   This chapter shall not be construed to preclude the applicability of any
other provision of the city ordinances or state statutes, unless the provision
is inconsistent with the terms of this chapter. (Ord. 2056, passed 1-24-78)
Penalty, see §
95.99
SWIMMING POOL
§ 95.30 FEES.
   (A)   The following fees are hereby established for use of the West
Carrollton Swimming Pool:
      (1)   Daily Admission Rates
         Resident   Resident (after 5 p.m.)
         Children (0 - 3 years of age) Free   Free
         Youth (age 4 to 17)   $3.00   $1.50
         Adult (age 18 and over)   $3.75   $2.00    
         Senior (age 55 and over)   $3.00   $1.50
         Non-Resident   Non-Resident (after 5 p.m.)
         Children (0 - 3 years of age) Free   Free
         Youth (age 4 to 17)   $4.25   $2.25
         Adult (age 18 and over)   $5.00   $2.50    
         Senior (age 55 and over)   $4.25   $2.25
      (2)   10 Admission Passes
         Resident   Non-Resident
         Youth (age 4 - 17)   $27.00   $38.25
         Adult (age 18 and over)    33.75   45.00
         Senior (age 55 and over)    27.00   38.25
      (3)   Pre-Season Passes (Prior to Pool Opening)
         Youth         $55.00   $70.00
         Adult          65.00   80.00
         Senior          55.00   70.00
         Family (4 pass limit)   140.00   170.00
         (each extra person over limit)    20.00   30.00
      (4)   Season Passes (After Pool Opens)
         Youth         $60.00   $75.00
         Adult          70.00    85.00
         Senior          60.00    75.00
         Family (4 pass limit)   150.00   180.00
         (each extra person over limit   20.00   30.00
      Family Pass is limited to a maximum of 4 passes in any combination of
adult(s) or children permanently residing in the same household. Additional
adult(s) or children permanently residing in same household are subject to the
above “extra person” fee.
         Note: 50% discount on season pass purchase after July 24, 2006, for
the 2006 pool season.
         West Carrollton YMCA Discount:
            Current members of the West Carrollton YMCA shall receive a 15%
discount on the purchase of both pre- season and season pool passes. This
includes both resident rates and non-resident rates.
(Res. 5-2006. Passed 2-28-05.)
         City Employee Discount:
            Employees of the City of West Carrollton shall receive a 50%
discount on both Pre-Season Passes and Season Passes.
(Res. 20-2006. Passed 6-27-06.)
      (5)   Swim Lessons
         Youth and adult   $30.00   $35.00
      (6)   Birthday Party Rates:
         Youth         $5.25   $6.00
         Adult         6.00   6.75
      (7)    Special Group Rental Fee
         (a)   Residents: $175.00 per hour, minimum charge $350.00, plus a
$50.00 deposit, for 100 or fewer persons; $200.00 per hour, minimum charge
$400.00, plus a $50.00 deposit, for more than 100 persons; $225.00 per hour,
minimum charge $450.00, plus a $50.00 deposit, for more than 300 persons.
         (b)   Non-residents: $175.00 per hour; minimum charge $350.00, plus a
$50.00 deposit, for 100 or fewer persons; $200.00 per hour, minimum charge
$400.00, plus a $50.00 deposit, for more than 100 persons; $225.00 per hour,
minimum charge $450.00, plus a $50.00 deposit for more than 300 persons.
   (B)   The resident fee will be given to nonresidents who either pay city
income tax or property taxes on property which they own within the city.
   (C)   Time and manner of use will be according to rules and regulations
established and approved by the Director of Parks and Recreation.
(Res. 5-2006. Passed 2-28-06.)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not already provided shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor, and shall be fined
not more than $100.
(Ord. 2056, passed 1-24-78)
CHAPTER 96: LOST OR ABANDONED PROPERTY
Section
96.01   City's possession of lost or abandoned property
96.02   Locating the owner
96.03   Establishing right to property
96.04   Disposal of unclaimed property
§ 96.01 CITY'S POSSESSION OF LOST OR ABANDONED PROPERTY.
   When the city comes into possession of property that has been lost,
abandoned, stolen, or lawfully seized or forfeited, the property shall be
safely kept until it is no longer needed as evidence and then disposed of
according to rules and regulations established by the City Manager.
(Ord. 2465, passed 9-11-84)
§ 96.02 LOCATING THE OWNER.
   The city shall make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or person
entitled to possession of the property and to notify him of when and where it
may be claimed. If the owner or person entitled to possession of the property
is unknown, the city shall advertise in a newspaper of general circulation in
the city once per week for three consecutive weeks, briefly describing the
property in possession of the city, and inviting persons to view and establish
their right to it.
(Ord. 2465, passed 9-11-84)
§ 96.03 ESTABLISHING RIGHT TO PROPERTY.
   In order to establish his right to such property, a person must file a claim
with the city within 30 days of the date of the last publication notice and
shall be filed under rules and regulations adopted by the City Manager.
(Ord. 2465, passed 9-11-84)
§ 96.04 DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY.
   If no claim to such property is filed within the time herein stated, or if
the City Manager determines that no valid claim to such property has been
filed, then the property shall be disposed of according to rules and
regulations adopted by the City Manager.
(Ord. 2465, passed 9-11-84)
CHAPTER 97: RIGHTS OF WAY
Section
97.01   Declaration of findings and purpose, scope and definitions
97.02   General requirements
97.03   Certification of registration applications and responsibilities
97.04   Termination of certificate of registration
97.05   Revocable street permit requirements
97.06   Indemnification and liability
97.07   Penalties for violation, liquidated damages and rights of appeal.
§ 97.01 DECLARATION OF FINDINGS AND PURPOSE, SCOPE AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Findings and Purpose.
      (1)   The City of West Carrollton, Ohio is vitally concerned with the use
of the various Rights of Way in the City as such Rights of Way are a valuable
and limited resource, which must be utilized to promote the public health,
safety and welfare, including the economic development of the City.
      (2)   Changes in the utilities and communication industries have
increased the demand and need for access to Public Rights of Way and placement
of Facilities and structures herein.
      (3)   It is necessary to comprehensively plan and manage access to, and
structures and Facilities in, the Public Rights of Way to promote efficiency,
lessen the public inconvenience of uncoordinated work in the Rights of Way, and
promote public safety.
      (4)   In recognition of the limited space available in the City Rights of
Way, the City shall promote the collocation of utilities to minimize intrusions
into the Rights of Way.
      (5)   While not a principal purpose of this chapter, an ingredient or
component of this chapter is to protect the public welfare by protecting real
estate from impairment and destruction of value by taking into account
aesthetic considerations in the requirement by the City, when it would be
practical in the opinion of the City, the underground placement of any Element
of a public or private Utility System located in the Public Rights of Way may
be required.
      (6)   The City has rights under the Laws and Constitution of the State of
Ohio, including but not limited to Article 18, Sections 3, 4, and 7, to
regulate public and private entities which use the Public Rights of Way.
   (B)   Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all users of the
Rights of Way as provided herein, except as provided elsewhere in the Codified
Ordinances of City of West Carrollton. To the extent that any provision in this
chapter conflicts with other provisions of the Codified Ordinances of West
Carrollton, or provisions of the Ohio Revised Code, the provisions of this
chapter shall control.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter of the Codified
Ordinances of City of West Carrollton, the following terms, phrases, words, and
their derivations shall have the meanings as set forth herein. When not
inconsistent with the context, words in the present tense include the future
tense, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words in the
singular number include the plural number. The words "shall" and "will" are
mandatory and "may" is permissive. Words not defined shall be given their
common and ordinary meanings. References hereafter to "Sections" are, unless
otherwise specified, references to Sections in this chapter. Defined terms
remain defined terms whether or not capitalized.
      (1)   Certificate of Registration means a document issued by the City to
a Utility Service Provider required before any Element of its Utility System is
permitted to be located in the City Public Right of Way.
      (2)   City means the City of West Carrollton, Ohio.
      (3)   City Council means the elected legislative decision-making body for
the City of West Carrollton, Ohio.
      (4)   City Manager means the administrative head of the municipal
government known as the City of West Carrollton, Ohio, or the official designee
appointed by the City Manager to implement all or some of the provisions of
this chapter.
      (5)   Codified Ordinances means the Code of Ordinances of the City of
West Carrollton, Ohio.
      (6)   Element means any tangible thing located in the Public Right of Way
that is part of a Utility System. Electromagnetic radiation that is not visible
to the human eye shall not be considered a tangible thing.
      (7)   Equipment means any Element of a Utility System.
      (8)   Facility or Facilities means any tangible thing located in the
Public Right of Way that is part of a Utility System. Electromagnetic radiation
that is not visible to the human eye shall not be considered a tangible thing.
      (9)   Law(s) means any local, state, or federal legislation, judicial or
administrative order, certificates, statute, constitution, ordinance,
resolution, regulation, rule, tariff, or other requirement in effect either at
the time of execution of this Title or at any time during the location of, and/
or while a Provider's Facilities are located in, the Public Rights of Way.
      (10)   Permit means a Revocable Street Permit.
      (11)   Person means any natural or corporate person, business
association, or other business entity including, but not limited to, a
partnership, a sole proprietorship, a political subdivision, a public or
private agency of any kind, a utility, a successor or assign of any of the
foregoing, or any other legal entity.
      (12)   Provider means a Utility Service Provider.
      (13)   Public Right(s) of Way or Right(s) of Way means the surface and
space in, on, above, within, over, below, under or through any real property in
which the City has an interest in Law or equity, whether held in fee, or other
estate or interest, or as a trustee for the public, including, but not limited
to any public street, boulevard, road, highway, freeway, lane, alley, court,
sidewalk, path, parkway, river, tunnel, viaduct, bridge, conduit, easement, or
any other place, area, or real property owned by or under the legal or
equitable control of the City that, consistent with the purposes for which it
was dedicated, may be used for the purposes of constructing, operating,
repairing or replacing a public or private Utility System. Public Rights of Way
shall not include a public building, public park, or other public property or
easement that has not been dedicated to a compatible use, except to the extent
the use or occupation of such property is specifically granted in a Permit or
approved by Law.
      (14)   Revocable Street Permit means the Permit for special licenses and
privileges that must be obtained from the City Manager pursuant to City of West
Carrollton Codified Ordinance Chapter 92, et seq., which is entitled "Street
and Sidewalk Excavations and Obstructions"and to this chapter of the Codified
Ordinances.
      (15)   System means a Utility System.
      (16)   Title means a Chapter or Title of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton, Ohio.
      (17)   Utility Service Provider means a Person that owns, operates, or
controls a Utility System.
      (18)   Utility System means a functionally related group of Facilities or
Elements that deliver a service, such as but not limited to, water, sanitary
sewage collection, storm water collection, gas, fuel, heat, steam, electricity,
electric powered trolley bus, electric powered light or heavy rail transit,
telephone, integrated service digital network (ISDN), cellular telephone,
personal communication services (PCS), competitive access Providers (CAPs) or
competitive local exchange carriers (CLECs) that provide telephone service,
paging and signaling systems, satellite phone service, radio, television, cable
television, digital television (DTV), video, open video services (OVS),
wireless television systems, direct broadcast satellite (DBS) video systems,
telecommunications, data transmission, fibre optic network information
transmission, private fibre optic data transmission lines between buildings,
computer interconnection, roadway traffic signal interconnection, Internet
computer access including e-mail communications, rail transportation, or water
transportation. (Ord. 3166. Passed 8-8-2000.)
§ 97.02 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Administration. The City Manager shall be the principal City official
responsible for the administration of this chapter except as otherwise provided
herein. The City Manager may delegate any or all of the duties hereunder to an
official designee.
   (B)   Utility Service Provider Required to Have Certificate of Registration.
No Utility Service Provider shall occupy or use the City Public Rights of Way
without having a valid Certificate of Registration issued by City pursuant to
this chapter. Use shall include construction, maintenance, or the performance
of any work on a Utility System.
   (C)   Utility System in Place Without a Valid Certificate of Registration.
Beginning one year after the effective date of this section, any Utility System
or Element of a Utility System located in a Public Right of Way in the City for
which a valid Certificate of Registration for the Utility Service Provider is
required and has not been obtained from the City shall be deemed to be a
nuisance and an unauthorized use of the Public Right of Way. The City may
exercise any remedies or rights it has, including, but not limited to abating
the nuisance; taking possession of the Utility System or any Element of the
Utility System; and/or prosecuting the violator.
   (D)   When Permit Required by a Utility Service Provider.
      (1)   If the location or proposed location of any Element of a public or
private Utility System is in a Public Right of Way, then, the consent of the
City, evidenced by the issuance by the City of a Revocable Street Permit in
accordance with Chapter 92 of the Codified Ordinances, must be obtained by that
Utility Service Provider before the construction, demolition or removal of any
Element of the Utility System is permitted or any excavation by that Utility
Service Provider in the Public Right of Way is permitted.
      (2)   This chapter does not require any Utility Service Provider that, as
of the effective date of this section, occupies, or has obtained the consent of
a City to occupy, a Public Right of Way in the City, to apply for additional or
continued consent of the City as to any existing lines, poles, pipes, conduits,
ducts, Equipment, and related appurtenances and Facilities that are in place on
the effective date of this section.
   (E)   Utility Service Provider Not Exempt from Permit Requirement or
Revocation of The Permit. No language or provisions set forth in City of West
Carrollton Codified Ordinance Chapter 92, et seq. shall be interpreted as
exempting a Utility Service Provider from the requirement of obtaining a
Revocable Street Permit or providing a Utility Service Provider an exception to
the power of the City Manager to revoke any such Permit issued.
   (F)   Exemptions.
      (1)   The City shall not be required to obtain a Certificate of
Registration for any Utility System for which the City is the Utility Service
Provider.
      (2)   In the case where a Utility Service Provider has a valid franchise
agreement with the City and the City Manager is of the opinion that one or more
of the requirements of this chapter of the Codified Ordinances are adequately
addressed in that franchise agreement; then, the City Manager, at his or her
sole discretion, may exempt such a Utility Service Provider from one or more of
the requirements of this chapter of the Codified Ordinances.
   (G)   Severability. If any Section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or
portion of this chapter is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by
any court or administrative agency of competent jurisdiction, such portion
shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision and such holding
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions thereof. If a
regulatory body or a court of competent jurisdiction should determine by a
final, non-appealable order that any Permit, right or any portions of this
chapter are illegal or unenforceable, then any such Permit or right granted or
deemed to exist hereunder shall be considered as a Revocable Street Permit with
a mutual right in either party to terminate without cause upon giving sixty
(60) days written notice to the other. The requirements and conditions of such
a Revocable Street Permit shall be the same requirements and conditions as set
forth in the Permit, right or registration, respectively, except for conditions
relating to the term of the Permit and the right of termination. If a Permit or
right shall be considered a Revocable Street Permit as provided herein, the
Provider must acknowledge the authority of the City to issue such Permit and
the power to revoke it.
   (H)   Reservation of Regulatory And Police Powers. The City, by the granting
of a Permit, or by issuing a Certificate of Registration under this Title, does
not surrender or to any extent lose, waive, impair, or lessen the lawful powers
and rights, which it has or may hereafter have, which are vested in the City
under the Constitution and Laws of the United States, state of Ohio, and under
the Charter of the City of West Carrollton to regulate the use of the Rights of
Way. The Provider by its acceptance of a Permit, or by applying for and being
issued a Certificate of Registration, agrees that all lawful powers and rights,
regulatory power, or police power, or otherwise as are or the same may be from
time to time vested in or reserved to the City, shall be in full force and
effect and subject to the exercise thereof by the City at any time. A Provider
is deemed to acknowledge that its rights are subject to the regulatory and
police powers of the City to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to
the safety and welfare of the public and is deemed to agree to comply with all
applicable general Laws enacted by the City pursuant to such powers.
   (I)   Method of Service. Any notice or order of the City or City Manager
shall be deemed to be properly served if a copy thereof is delivered
personally; or successfully transmitted via facsimile transmission to the last
known fax number of the Person to be served; or left at the usual place of
business of the Person to whom it is to be served upon and with someone who is
18 years of age or order; or sent by certified, pre-paid U.S. mail to the last
known address; or if the notice is attempted to be served by certified, pre-
paid U.S. mail and then returned showing that the letter was not delivered, or
the certified letter is not returned within fourteen (14) days after the date
of mailing, then notice may be sent by regular, pre- paid, first-class U.S.
mail; or if the notice is attempted to be served by regular, first class U.S.
mail, postage prepaid, the letter is then returned showing that the letter was
not delivered, or is not returned within fourteen (14) days after the date of
mailing, then notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about the
structure, building, premises or property affected by such notice.
   (J)   Applies to All Providers. This Title shall apply to all Providers
unless expressly exempted.
   (K)    Police Powers. All Persons’ rights are subject to the police powers
of the City to adopt and enforce ordinances necessary to protect the health,
safety, and welfare of the public. All Persons shall comply with all applicable
Laws enacted by the City pursuant to its police or other powers. In particular,
all Persons shall comply with City zoning and other land use requirements
pertaining to the placement and specifications of Facilities.
   (L)   Compliance. No Person shall be relieved of his/her obligation to
comply with any of the provisions of this Title by reason of any failure of the
City to enforce prompt compliance.
   (M)   Choice of Law And Forum. This Title and the terms and conditions of
any Certificate of Registration or Permit shall be construed and enforced in
accordance with the substantive Laws of the State of Ohio. All Providers, as a
condition for the grant of any Permit or issuance of any Certificate of
Registration, agree that all disputes shall be resolved in the court of
competent jurisdiction in Montgomery County, Ohio or as otherwise agreed to in
writing by the City.
   (N)   Force Majeure. In the event any Person's performance of any of the
terms, conditions, or obligations required by this chapter is prevented by a
cause or event not within such Person's control, such inability to perform
shall be deemed excused and no penalties or sanctions shall be imposed as a
result thereof. For the purpose of this Chapter, causes or events not within
the control of a Provider shall include, without limitation, acts of God,
strikes, sabotage, riots or civil disturbances, explosions, acts of public
enemies, and natural disasters such as floods, earthquakes, landslides, and
fires.
   (O)   No Warranty. The City makes no representation or warranty regarding
its right to authorize the construction of Facilities on any particular Rights
of Way. The burden and responsibility for making such determination shall be
upon the Person constructing Facilities in the Rights of Way.
   (P)   Continuing Obligation and Holdover. In the event a Provider continues
to operate all or any part of the Facilities after the term of a Certificate of
Registration, such Provider shall continue to comply with all applicable
provisions of this Title and other laws throughout the period of such continued
operation, provided that any such continued operation shall in no way be
construed as a renewal or other extension of the Certificate of Registration,
nor as a limitation on the remedies, if any, available to the City as a result
of such continued operation after the term, including, but not limited to,
damages and restitution. Any conflict between the issuance of a Certificate of
Registration or of a Permit and any other present or future lawful exercise of
the City's regulatory or police powers shall be resolved in favor of the
latter.
   (Q)   Appeals. All appeals provided for by this chapter and any notification
to the City required by this chapter shall be in writing and sent via certified
mail to the City Manager as specified in Section 97.07.
   (R)   City Standards. As part of City required standards wherever Rights of
Way are under construction, if deemed advisable and practicable by the City
Manager, the City may install all such Facilities deemed necessary to
accommodate future Provider needs. Any such installed Facilities shall be City
property and may be conveyed to any Person under such terms and conditions as
are deemed advisable by the City Manager.
   (S)   Chapter And Section Headings. Chapter and Section headings are for
convenience only and shall not be used to interpret any portion of this
chapter.
(Ord. 3166. Passed 8-8-2000.)
§ 97.03 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION APPLICATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Certificate of Registration Applications.
      (1)   Unless exempted in this chapter, a valid Certificate of
Registration shall be required for each Utility Service Provider with any
Element of a Utility System located in a Public Right of Way in the City.
      (2)   The Utility Service Provider shall apply to the City Manager for a
Certificate of Registration or the renewal of a Certificate of Registration.
The City Manager shall determine the form of the application. An application
shall include the following information and fee:
         (a)   Detailed identification information about the Utility Service
Provider; a copy of the current incorporation certificate of the applicant, if
applicable; both regular and emergency contact information for the Utility
Service Provider; a brief description of each utility service provided or
proposed to be provided; a copy of each approval required by law, by any
applicable authority, to provide any utility service described in the
application; evidence of reasonable insurance coverage by the Utility Service
Provider; and, any other relevant information the City Manager deems necessary
to determine the fitness of the Utility Service Provider.
         (b)   If requested by the City Manager or the applicant, the applicant
Utility Service Provider and the City shall meet to coordinate future plans for
the Public Right of Way between the Utility Service Provider and the City.
         (c)   An application fee of five hundred dollars ($500.00) shall be
paid to the City at the time an application for a Certificate of Registration
is filed with the City. No part of an application fee is returnable to the
applicant.
   (B)   Maximum Decision Time. Unless the applicant agrees to an extension of
the maximum decision time, the City shall have a maximum time period of one
hundred twenty (120) consecutive calender days from the date a complete
application for a Certificate of Registration by a Utility Service Provider is
received by the City to make a decision on the application. Unless the
applicant agrees to an extension of the maximum decision time, failure of the
City to make a decision on an application for a Certificate of Registration
shall be considered the same as an approval of the application by the City.
   (C)   Criteria for Issuance. In deciding whether to issue a Certificate of
Registration, the City Manager shall consider: whether the issuing of the
Certificate of Registration will contribute to the health, safety, and welfare
of the City and its citizens; whether issuing of the Certificate of
Registration will be consistent with this chapter; whether the applicant has
submitted a complete application and has secured all certificates and other
authorizations required by law in order to construct and operate a system in
the manner proposed by the applicant; whether the applicant is delinquent on
any taxes or other obligations owed to the City, Montgomery County, Ohio, or
the State of Ohio; whether the applicant has the requisite financial,
managerial, and technical ability to fulfill all the obligations under this
Ordinance and the issuance of a Certificate of Registration; and, any other
applicable law.
   (D)   Denial of Application. The City Manager shall have right to deny an
application for a Certificate of Registration for adequate cause. If requested
in writing by the applicant, the City Manager must provide to the applicant in
written form specific factual findings in support of the decision by the City
Manager to deny the application for a Certificate of Registration. Any decision
by the City Manager to deny an application for a Certificate of Registration is
appealable by the applicant to the City Council in the manner set forth in
Section
97.07.
   (E)   Expiration of Certificate of Registration. Unless terminated by the
City at an earlier date, a Certificate of Registration shall expire one year
from the date of issuance by the City.
   (F)   Responsibilities of a Utility Service Provider With a Valid
Certificate of Registration.
      (1)   When required by the Codified Ordinances, a Utility Service
Provider with a valid Certificate of Registration must obtain a Revocable
Street Permit.
      (2)   The Provider must keep all information required in the application
by the City current.
      (3)   When requested by the City, a public or private Utility Service
Provider with a Utility System Element located or proposed to be located in a
Public Right of Way in the City must meet with the City to coordinate future
plans for the Public Right of Way between the Utility Service Provider and the
City.
      (4)   A Utility Service Provider with any Utility System Element located
or proposed to be located in a Right of Way in the City must provide the City
with up-to- date accurate plans in sufficient detail and in a format acceptable
to the City showing the location of all Elements of the Utility System located
in the Right of Way in the City.
      (5)   In addition to a Certificate of Registration, Providers shall
obtain any and all regulatory approvals, permits, authorizations, or licenses
necessary for the offering or provision of such services from the appropriate
federal, state and local authorities and upon the City's reasonable request,
shall provide copies of such documents to the City.
      (6)   A Certificate of Registration issued pursuant to this chapter shall
not entitle a Provider to use, alter, convert to, or interfere with, the
Facilities, easements, poles, conduits, lines, pipelines, wires, fiber, cable,
or any other real or personal property of any kind whatsoever under the
management or control of the City or under the management or control of another
Utility Provider that is legally occupying the City Right of Way.
   (G)   Nature of Issuance. A Certificate of Registration shall not convey
equitable or legal title in the Rights of Way. A Certificate of Registration is
only the nonexclusive, limited right to occupy Rights of Way in the City for
the limited purpose and for the limited period stated in the Certificate of
Registration and in accordance with this chapter and any associated Permit. For
those Providers with a valid gas or electric franchise, the provisions of a
Certificate of Registration shall be deemed as regulatory in nature and shall
not be interpreted to limit the right to occupy the Rights of Way which may
have been granted by such franchise. The rights to occupy the Right of Way
itself may not be subdivided or subleased; provided, however, that two or more
Providers may collocate Facilities in the same area of the Rights of Way so
long as each such Provider complies with the provisions of this chapter. A
Certificate of Registration does not excuse a Provider from obtaining
appropriate access or pole attachment agreements before collocating its
Facilities on Facilities of others, including the City's Facilities. A
Certificate of Registration does not prevent a Provider from leasing space in
or on the Provider's System, so long as the sharing of Facilities does not
cause a violation of Law, including the provisions of this chapter. A
Certificate of Registration does not excuse a Provider from complying with any
provisions of this chapter and other applicable Law.
   (H)   Relocation of Equipment. 
      (1)   A Provider must promptly and at its own expense, with due regard
for seasonal working conditions, permanently remove and relocate its Equipment
and Facilities in the Right of Way whenever the City Manager requests such
removal and relocation, and shall restore the Right of Way to the same
condition it was in prior to said removal or relocation.
      The City Manager may make such request to prevent interference by the
Company's Equipment or Facilities with (i) a present or future City use of the
Right of Way, (ii) a public improvement undertaken by the City, (iii) an
economic development project in which the City has an interest or investment,
(iv) when the public health, safety and welfare require it, or (v) when
necessary to prevent interference with the safety and convenience of ordinary
travel over the Right of Way.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Person shall not be required to
remove or relocate its Equipment from any Right of Way which has been vacated
in favor of a non-municipal entity unless and until the reasonable costs
thereof are first paid to the Person therefor.
   (I)   Pre-excavation Equipment Location. Before the start date of any Right
of Way excavation, each Provider who has Equipment in the area to be excavated
shall contact Ohio Utility Protection Service (OUPS) and shall mark the
horizontal and approximate vertical placement of all said Equipment. Any
Provider whose Equipment is estimated to be less than twenty (20) inches below
a concrete or asphalt surface shall notify and work closely with the excavation
contractor to establish the exact location of its Equipment and the best
procedure for excavation.
   (J)   Damage to Other Equipment.
      (1)   When the City does or causes to be done work in the Right of Way
and finds it necessary to maintain, support, or move a Provider's Equipment to
protect it, the City Manager shall notify the local representative as early as
is reasonably possible. The costs associated therewith will be billed to that
Provider and must be paid within thirty (30) days from the date of billing.
      (2)   Each Provider shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any
Equipment in the Right of Way which it or its Equipment damages. Each Provider
shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any damage to the Equipment of
another Provider caused during the City's response to an emergency occasioned
by that Provider's Equipment.
   (K)   Right of Way Vacation.
      (1)   If the City vacates a Right of Way which contains the Equipment of
a Provider, and if the vacation does not require the relocation of the
Provider's Equipment, the City shall reserve, to and for itself and all
Providers having Equipment in the vacated Right of Way, the right to install,
maintain and operate any Equipment in the vacated Right of Way and to enter
upon such Right of Way at any time for the purpose of reconstructing,
inspecting, maintaining or repairing the same.
      (2)   If the vacation requires the relocation of the Provider's
Equipment; and (a) if the vacation proceedings are initiated by the Provider,
the Provider must pay the relocation costs; or (b) if the vacation proceedings
are initiated by the City, the Provider must pay the relocation costs unless
otherwise agreed to by the City and the Provider; or (c) if the vacation
proceedings are initiated by a Person or Persons other than the Provider, such
other Person or Persons must pay the relocation costs.
   (L)   Discontinued Operations And Abandoned Equipment.
      (1)   Discontinued Operations. A Provider who has determined to
discontinue its operations in the City must either:
         (a)   Provide information satisfactory to the City Manager that the
Provider's obligations for its Equipment in the Right of Way under this Title
have been lawfully assumed by another Provider; or
         (b)   Submit to the City Manager a proposal and instruments for
transferring ownership of its Equipment to the City. If a Provider proceeds
under this clause, the City may, at its option: purchase the Equipment; require
the Provider, at its own expense, to remove it; or require the Provider to post
a bond in an amount sufficient to reimburse the City for reasonably anticipated
costs to be incurred in removing the Equipment.
      (2)   Abandoned Equipment. Equipment of a Provider who fails to comply
with the discontinued operations provisions of this chapter and which remains
unused shall be deemed to be abandoned. Unused Equipment means Facilities
located in the Rights of Way which have remained unused for a period of two
years and for which the Provider is unable to: (i) provide the City with a
credible plan detailing the procedure by which the Provider intends to begin
actively using such Facilities within the next twelve months; or (ii) that it
has a potential purchaser or user of the Facilities who will be actively using
the Facilities within the next twelve months; or (iii) that the availability of
such Facilities is required by the Provider to adequately and efficiently
operate its System. Abandoned Equipment is deemed to be a nuisance. The City
may exercise any remedies or rights it has at law or in equity, including, but
not limited to: (i) abating the nuisance; (ii) taking possession of the
Equipment and restoring it to a useable condition; or (iii) requiring removal
of the Equipment by the Provider, or the Provider's successor in interest.
      (3)   Removal. Any Provider who has unused and abandoned Equipment in any
Right of Way shall remove it from that Right of Way during the next scheduled
excavation, or at such different time as designated by the City Manager, unless
this requirement is waived by the City Manager.
      (4)   In the event of any conflict with the provisions of subsection (L)
hereof with Federal law known as the Miller Act, the provisions of the Miller
Act shall control.
(Ord. 3166. Passed 8-8-2000.)
§ 97.04 TERMINATION OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Written Notice of Violation. The City Manager shall give written
notice of violation to a Provider if it is determined that a Provider has:
violated any material provision or requirement of the issuance or acceptance of
a Certificate of Registration or any Law of the City, state, or federal
government; or attempted to evade any provision or requirement of the issuance
of a Certificate of Registration or the acceptance of it; or practiced any
fraud or deceit upon the City; or made a material misrepresentation of fact in
its Application for a Certificate of Registration.
   (B)   Failure to Cure Violation. If a Provider fails to cure a violation
within thirty (30) calendar days after such notice is served by the City then
such violation shall be a material breach and City may exercise any remedies or
rights it has at Law or in equity to terminate the Certificate of Registration.
If the City Manager decides there is cause or reason to terminate, the
following procedure shall be followed:
      (1)   City shall serve a Provider with a written notice of the reason or
cause for proposed termination and shall allow a Provider a minimum of ten (10)
calendar days to cure its breach.
      (2)   If the Provider fails to cure within ten (10) calendar days, the
City Manager may declare the Certificate of Registration terminated.
      (3)   The determination of the City Manager shall be final.
(Ord. 3166. Passed 8-8-2000.)
§ 97.05 REVOCABLE STREET PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application for Permit. An application for a Revocable Street Permit
shall be in accordance with Chapter 92 of the Codified Ordinances including any
additional requirements contained in this Chapter 97 of the Codified
Ordinances.
   (B)   Permit Requirements. The requirements in this chapter shall be in
addition to any requirement set forth in Codified Ordinances Chapter 92, et
seq.
      (1)   A Utility Service Provider must have a valid Certificate of
Registration on File with the City, or be exempt under Section
97.02(F), before the City may issue a Revocable Street Permit.
      (2)   The construction, demolition, or removal of any Element of a
Utility System in a Public Right of Way by a Utility Service Provider must be
accomplished in a practical manner which, in the opinion of the City, results
in the least potential amount of damage and disruption of the Public Right of
Way.
      (3)   The Permit applicant shall provide a specific timetable for the
work covered under the Permit application to be accomplished including:
detailed plans, accurate scale drawings, and specifications in sufficient
detail acceptable to the City to describe the area of work covered in the
Permit application. In addition, the City may require the applicant to provide
up-to-date, accurate, comprehensive master plans of the existing and proposed
Utility System. These master plans are intended to allow the City to consider
the broader context of the Utility Service Provider's plans upon which the
Permit application is based.
   (C)   Limitations on Placement of Utility System Elements And/or Permissive
Denial of Permit.
      (1)   To protect the public health, safety, and welfare in recognition of
the limitation of space in the Public Right of Way, the City Manager shall have
the power to prohibit or limit the placement of a new Utility System or
additional Elements of an existing Utility System within a Public Right of Way
if there is insufficient space to accommodate all of the requests of Persons to
occupy and use the Public Right of Way. In making such decisions, the City
Manager shall strive to the extent possible to accommodate all existing and
potential users of the Public Right of Way, but shall be guided primarily by
considerations of the public interest, the public's needs for the particular
utility service, the condition of the Public Right of Way, the time of year
with respect to essential utilities, the protection of existing Elements of
Utility Systems in the Public Right of Way, and future City plans for public
improvements and development projects which have been determined to be in the
public interest.
      (2)   The City Manager may deny a Permit to protect the public health,
safety and welfare, to prevent interference with the safety and convenience of
ordinary travel over the Public Right of Way, or when necessary to protect the
Public Right of Way and its users. The City Manager, in his or her discretion,
may consider one of more of the following factors: the extent to which Public
Right of Way space where the Permit is sought is available; the competing
demands for the particular space in the Right of Way; the availability of other
locations in the Public Right of Way or in other public rights of way for the
Utility System Elements of the Permit applicant; the applicability of ordinance
or other regulations of the Right of Way that affect location of Utility System
Elements in the Right of Way; the degree of compliance of the applicant with
the terms and conditions of its franchise, this Title, and other applicable
ordinances and regulations; the degree of disruption to surrounding communities
and businesses that will result from the use of that part of the Public Right
of Way; the condition and age of the Public Right of Way, and whether and when
it is scheduled for total or partial reconstruction; the balancing of the costs
of disruption to the public and damage to the Public Right of Way, against the
benefits to that part of the public served by the expansion into additional
parts of the Public Right of Way; and the feasibility of accomplishing the
desired goal outside of the Public Right of Way.
   (D)   Underground Utility Areas within the Public Right-of-way.
      (1)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to establish
general procedures and standards for underground utility areas within the City
of West Carrollton, Ohio rights-of-way.
      (2)   Underground utility areas. From the effective date of this section,
all Utility System Elements located in the public right-of-way, except poles,
shall be placed underground within the following areas which shall be described
as “Underground Utility Areas”;
         (a)   Central Avenue:
            1.   North side from Cedar Street to North Locust Street.
            2.   North side from North Elm Street to Weir Street.
         (b)   Fame Road.
         (c)   Fortune Road.
         (d)   Progress Road.
         (e)   Gargrave Road.
      (3)   Annexed property. All property annexed into the city after the
effective date of this legislation shall be automatically deemed as an
Underground Utility Area.
      (4)   Waiver. In the event of practical difficulties, the City Manager
may grant a waiver from the requirements of this section for good cause shown.
(Ord. 3166. Passed 8-8-2000; Ord. 3636. Passed 7-10-18.)
§ 97.06 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   City Does Not Accept Liability. By reason of the acceptance of an
application or the grant of a Permit, the City does not assume any liability:
for injuries to Persons, damage to property, or loss of Service claims; or for
claims or penalties of any sort resulting from the installation, presence,
maintenance, or operation of Facilities.
   (B)   Indemnification. By applying for and being issued a Certificate of
Registration with the City a Provider agrees, or by accepting a Permit a
Provider is required and agrees, to defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the
City's agents, elected officials, officers, employees, volunteers and
subcontractors from all costs, liabilities, claims, and suits for damages of
any kind arising out of the construction, presence, installation, maintenance,
repair or operation of its Facilities, or out of any activity undertaken in or
near a Rights of Way, whether any act or omission complained of is authorized,
allowed, or prohibited by a Permit, excepting only negligent acts or omissions
that are willful and wanton or intentional torts and for which immunity is not
provided by the Ohio Revised Code for such acts, omissions, or intentional
torts. This exception shall not extend to acts, omissions, or intentional torts
occurring as a result of or in response to an emergency. A Provider further
agrees that it will not bring, nor cause to be brought, any action, suit or
other proceeding claiming damages, or seeking any other relief against the
City's agents, elected officials, officers, employees, volunteers and
subcontractors or any claim nor for any award arising out of the presence,
installation, maintenance or operation of its Facilities, or any activity
undertaken in or near a Right of Way, whether the act or omission complained of
is authorized, allowed or prohibited by a Permit. This Chapter is not, as to
third parties, a waiver of any defense or immunity otherwise available to the
Provider or to the City; and the Provider, in defending any action on behalf of
the City, if allowable by Law, shall be entitled to assert in any action every
defense or immunity that the City could assert in its own behalf. Any and all
exercises of the above shall be consistent with, but not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   To the fullest extent permitted by Law, each Provider shall, at its
sole cost and expense, fully indemnify, defend and hold harmless the City, its
agents, elected officials, officers, employees, volunteers and subcontractors
from and against any and all lawsuits, claims (including without limitation
Workers’ Compensation claims against the City or others), causes of action,
liability, and judgments for injury or damages including but not limited to
expenses for reasonable legal fees and disbursements assumed by the City
related to the following:
         (a)   Injuries or damages to persons or property, in any way arising
out of or through the acts or omissions of Provider, its subcontractors, agents
or employees attributable to the occupation by the Provider of the Rights of
Way, to which Provider's negligence shall in any way contribute, and regardless
of whether the City's negligence or the negligence of any other party shall
have contributed to such claim, cause of action, judgment, injury or damage.
         (b)   Arising out of any claim for invasion of the right of privacy,
for defamation of Person, firm or corporation, or the violation or infringement
of any copyright, trademark, trade name, service mark or patent or any other
right of any Person, firm and corporation by the Provider, by excluding claims
arising out of or related to City programming.
         (c)   Arising out of Provider's failure to comply with the provisions
of any Law applicable to the Provider.
      (2)   The foregoing indemnification is conditioned upon the City:
         (a)   Giving Provider reasonable notice of any claim or the
commencement of any action, suit or proceeding for which indemnification is
sought;
         (b)   Affording the Provider the opportunity to fully participate in
any discussions concerning any compromise, settlement, or other resolution or
disposition of
any claim or proceeding subject to indemnification, as well as the sole right
to approve any compromise or settlement or financial commitment, which approval
shall not be unreasonably withheld;
         (c)   Cooperating in the defense of such claim and making available to
the Provider all pertinent information under the City's control.
      (3)   The City shall have the right to employ separate counsel in any
such action or proceeding and to participate in the investigation and defense
thereof, and the Provider shall pay all reasonable fees and expense of such
separate counsel if employed.
(Ord. 3166. Passed 8-8-2000.)
§ 97.07 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION, LIQUIDATED DAMAGES, AND RIGHTS OF APPEAL.
   (A)   Penalties For Violation. It shall be unlawful to violate any provision
of this chapter. Violation of any provision of this chapter or failure to
comply with any requirement of this chapter (including a violation of a
condition or safeguard established in connection with a Certificate of
Registration, Permit, or any other City approval) shall constitute a
misdemeanor of the second degree. Each and every failure to comply shall be
considered a distinct and separate offense. Each day a violation continues
shall be considered a distinct and separate offense.
   (B)   Non-exclusive Remedy. The remedies provided in this chapter are not
exclusive or in lieu of other rights and remedies that the City may have. The
City is hereby authorized at any time to seek legal and equitable relief for
actual or threatened injury to the Rights of Way, including damages to the
Rights of Way, whether caused by a violation or any of the provisions of this
Title or other provisions of applicable Law.
   (C)   Liquidated Damages. In addition to any other penalties set forth in
this chapter, and the remedy of specific performance which may be enforced in a
court of competent jurisdiction, the City Manager may assess an additional
penalty of civil forfeiture for failure to comply with any provision of this
chapter. Said penalty shall be a monetary sum, payable to the City, in the
amount of Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00) per twenty-four (24) hour day of
violation and any subsequent portion of a day less than twenty-four (24) hours
in length. Prior to assessing said penalty, the City Manager shall provide
written notice to the Provider detailing the failure to comply with a specific
provision of this chapter. Said notice shall indicate that said penalty shall
be assessed in fifteen (15) calendar days after receipt of service of the
notice if compliance is not achieved. If a Provider desires to challenge said
penalty, Provider shall request a hearing before the City Manager within ten
(10) days of service of the notice. Said hearing shall be held within thirty
(30) days of the Provider's request. If Provider requests such hearing before
the City Manager, said penalty shall be temporarily suspended. However, if,
after the hearing, the City Manager determines that Provider failed to comply
with the specific provision of this chapter referenced in the notice, said
penalty shall be assessed starting fifteen (15) calendar days after service of
the notice referenced in this Chapter and continuing for each day thereafter
until compliance is achieved. The determination of the City Manager shall be
final.
   (D)   Rights of Appeal.
      (1)   Authorization. The following decisions of the City Manager pursuant
to this chapter are appealable to the City Council: (i) the decision of the
City Manager with respect to the issuance of an exemption to the requirement of
a Certificate of Registration under Section
 97.02(F)(2); (ii) the denial of an application for a Certificate of
Registration under Section
97.03(D); (iii) denial of a Permit under Section 97.05(C)(2) and (iv) denial of
an exception under Section
97.02(F). An appeal from the decision of the City Manager with respect to any
of these decisions may be taken to the City Council by any aggrieved Provider.
      (2)   Filing Fee. The filing fee for any appeal under this chapter shall
be One Hundred and 00/100 Dollars ($100.00).
      (3)   Time for Appeals. Appeals to the City Council shall be filed within
thirty (30) days from the decision of the City Manager by filing a written
notice of appeal with the Clerk of the City Council. The notice of appeal shall
specify the grounds for such appeal, and shall be on the form prescribed by the
Clerk of the City Council. Upon receipt of an appropriately completed notice of
appeal and filing fee, the Clerk of the City Council shall transmit to the
members of the City Council all papers constituting the record upon which the
decisions being appealed were based.
      (4)   Hearing on Appeal. The City Council shall schedule the hearing for
the appeal within a reasonable period of time at a regularly-scheduled City
Council meeting or at a special City Council meeting. Written notice of the
hearing shall be sent to the aggrieved Provider at least ten (10) days prior to
the hearing. The failure of delivery of such notice, however, shall not
invalidate any subsequent proceedings. The aggrieved Provider or its
representative may appear and be heard at the hearing, and present any evidence
the Provider desires in support of its position.
      (5)   Decision on Appeals. The City Council may affirm, reverse, or
modify, in whole or in part, the decision appealed from, and to that end, the
City Council shall have all the powers of the City Manager with respect to such
decision. The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the City Council
shall be necessary to reverse or modify any decision of the City Manager under
this chapter. The City Council shall render a written decision on the appeal
without unreasonable delay after the close of the hearing, and in all cases
within thirty (30) days after the close of the hearing.
      (6)   Records of Appeals. The Clerk of the City Council shall maintain
complete records of all actions of the City Council with respect to appeals.
(Ord. 3166. Passed 8-8-2000.)
CHAPTER 98: EMERGENCY SERVICES
Section
98.01   Fees; policies.
§ 98.01 FEES; POLICIES.
   (A)   The fees as set forth and established in Section
37.19 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton, are to be charged for the provision of public safety
services at the scenes of motor vehicle accidents and other emergency services
provided by the City.
   (B)   The following policies are hereby established by Council to govern the
collection procedures to be used by the City in recovering said charges:
      (1)   City personnel will make reasonable efforts to obtain the address
and insurance information of all recipients of emergency services at scenes of
motor vehicle accidents and other emergency services.
      (2)   All recipients of emergency services will be sent an informational
letter explaining the charges established herein and requesting additional
insurance information as necessary.
      (3)   Claims will be filed with recipients’ insurance carriers for
reimbursement of charges.
      (4)   Recipients will be furnished a statement showing insurance payment
collected.
      (5)   Under no circumstances will threats of litigation be issued or
suits be filed by the City in an effort to collect charges established herein,
without prior approval of Council.
   (C)   All revenue for emergency services collected by the City shall be used
for the purpose of providing and maintaining emergency services within the
City. (Ord. 3268. Passed 5-11-04; amend. Ord. 3436. Passed 12-22- 09.)
CHAPTER 99: SMALL CELL FACILITIES AND WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURES
Section
99.01   Purpose and intent
99.02   Applicability
99.03   Definitions
99.04   Application required
99.05   Application review timeframes and process
99.06   Small cell design guidelines
99.07   Standard conditions of permit approval
99.08   Safety requirements
99.09   Recovery of costs
99.10   Nonconformity
99.11   Revocation
99.12   Appeals
99.13   Severability
99.99   Penalty
§ 99.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish general procedures and
standards, consistent with all applicable federal, state, and local laws, for
the siting, construction, installation, collocation, modification, operation,
and removal of small cell facilities and wireless support structures within the
right-of-way.
   (B)   The intent of this chapter is to:
      (1)   Establish basic criteria for applications to locate small cell
facilities and wireless support structures in the right-of-way and authorize
the City Manager or his or her designee to develop, publish, and from time to
time amend applications and other associated materials to provide clear
guidance to applicants;
      (2)   Ensure that small cell facilities and wireless support structures
are carefully designed, constructed, modified, maintained, and removed when no
longer in use in conformance with all applicable health and safety regulations;
      (3)   Preserve the character of the City of West Carrollton by minimizing
the potentially adverse visual impact of small cell facilities and wireless
support structures through careful design, siting, landscaping and camouflaging
techniques to blend these facilities into their environment to the maximum
extent practicable;
      (4)   Enhance the ability of wireless service providers to deploy small
cell facilities and wireless support structures in the city quickly,
effectively, and efficiently so that residents, businesses, and visitors
benefit from ubiquitous and robust wireless service availability;
      (5)   Establish an application process and structure for payment of fees
and charges to be uniformly applied to all applicants, operators and owners of
small cell facilities and wireless support structures for such facilities; and
      (6)   Comply with, and not conflict with or preempt, all applicable state
and federal laws, including without limitation Section 101(a) and Section 704
of the Telecommunications Act, Pub. L. 104104, 101 Stats. 56, 70 (Feb. 8, 1996)
(codified as 47 U.S.C. §§ 253(a), 332(c)(7)), as may be amended or superseded,
and Section 6409(a) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act, Pub.
L. 112-96, 126 Stat. 156 (Feb. 22, 2012) (codified as 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a)), as
may be amended or superseded, and all FCC rules and regulations to interpret
and implement applicable federal statutes.
(Ord. 3636, passed 7-10-18)
§ 99.02 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Subject to the Ohio Revised Code and approval of an application under
this chapter, an operator may collocate a small cell facility and construct,
maintain, modify, operate, or replace wireless support structures in, along,
across, upon, and under the city right-of-way as follows:
      (1)   An operator shall comply with generally applicable standards that
are consistent with Chapter 97: Rights of Way and this chapter and any rules,
regulations, and design guidelines adopted by the city for the collocation of a
small cell facility and construction, maintenance, modification, operation, or
replacement of wireless support structures in, along, across, upon, and under
the city right- of-way, unless otherwise prohibited by state or federal law.
      (2)   All wireless support structures and small cell facilities shall be
constructed and maintained so as not to impede or impair public safety or the
legal use of the right- of-way by the city, the traveling public, or other
public utilities.
   (B)   Exclusions.
      (1)   Amateur radio facilities. This chapter shall not govern the
installation of any amateur radio facility that is owned or operated by a
federally licensed amateur radio station operator or is used exclusively for
receive-only antennas.
      (2)   Certain over-the-air receiving devices (OTARD). This chapter shall
not govern the installation of any OTARD antennas covered under FCC regulations
codified in 47 C.F.R. §§ 1.4000 et seq., as may be amended or superseded. OTARD
antennas include, without limitation, direct-to-home satellite dish antennas
less than one meter in diameter, television antennas and wireless cable
antennas.
      (3)   Handsets and user equipment. This chapter shall not govern the use
of personal wireless devices (e.g., cell phones) or other consumer-grade mobile
user equipment used in the right-of-way.
   (C)   The permitting procedures and authorizations set forth herein shall
apply only to small cell facilities and wireless support structures in the
right-of-way, and do not authorize the construction and operation of a wireline
backhaul facility, which continues to be governed by Chapter 97: Rights of Way.
   (D)   Relationship to other chapters. This chapter shall supersede all
conflicting requirements of other titles and chapters of this Code regarding
the locating and permitting of small cell facilities and wireless support
structures in the right-of-way.
   (E)   Nothing in this chapter precludes the city from applying its generally
applicable health, safety, and welfare regulations when granting consent for a
small cell facility or wireless support structure in the city right-of-way.
(Ord. 3636, passed 7-10-18)
§ 99.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General use of terms.
      (1)   The terms, phrases, words, and their derivations used in this
chapter shall have the meanings given in this section.
      (2)   When consistent with the context, words used in the present tense
also include the future tense; words in the plural number include the singular
number; and words in the singular number include the plural number.
      (3)   All terms used in the definition of any other term shall have their
meaning as otherwise defined in this section.
      (4)   The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory and "may" is permissive.
      (5)   Words not defined shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
   (B)   Defined terms.
      ABANDONED. Any small cell facilities or wireless support structures that
are unused for a period of 365 days without the operator otherwise notifying
the city and receiving the city's approval.
      AFFILIATE. When used in relation to any person, means another person who
owns or controls, is owned or controlled by, or is under common ownership or
control with, such person.
      AGENT. A person that provides the city written authorization to work on
behalf of a public utility.
      ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives radio
frequency signals in the provision of wireless service.
      APPLICANT. Any person that submits an application to the city to site,
install, construct, collocate, modify, and/or operate a small cell facility or
wireless support structure in the right-of-way according to the requirements of
this chapter.
      CABLE OPERATOR. Any person or group of persons: (1) who provides cable
service over a cable system and directly or through one or more affiliates owns
a significant interest in such cable system, or (2) who otherwise controls or
is responsible for, through any arrangement, the management and operation of
such a cable system.
      CABLE SERVICE.
         (a)   The one-way transmission to subscribers of (i) video
programming, or (ii) other programming service; and
         (b)   Subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the
selection of such video programming or other programming service.
      CABLE FRANCHISE. An initial authorization, or renewal thereof (including
a renewal of an authorization which has been granted subject to 47 U.S.C. 522
Section 546), issued by a franchising authority, whether such authorization is
designated as a franchise, permit, license, resolution, contract, certificate,
agreement, or otherwise, which authorizes the construction or operation of a
cable system.
      CITY. The municipal government known as the City of West Carrollton,
Ohio.
      CITY MANAGER. The administrative head of the municipal government known
as the City of West Carrollton, Ohio, or the official designee appointed by the
City Manager to implement all or some of the provisions of this chapter.
      CLEAR ZONE. The unobstructed, traversable area provided beyond the edge
of the through traveled way for the recovery of errant vehicles. The clear zone
includes shoulders, bike lanes, and auxiliary lanes, except those auxiliary
lanes that function like through lanes. As defined in the ODOT Location and
Design Manual, Volume 1, Section 600—Roadside Design.
      COLLOCATION or COLLOCATE. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate,
or replace wireless small cell facilities on a wireless support structure.
      DECORATIVE POLE. A pole, arch, or structure other than a street light
pole placed in the public way specifically designed and placed for aesthetic
purposes and on which no appurtenances or attachments have been placed except
for any of the following: (1) Electric lighting; (2) Specially designed
informational or directional signage; (3) Temporary holiday or special event
attachments.
      DESIGN GUIDELINES. Those detailed design guidelines, specifications and
examples promulgated by the City Manager for the design and installation of
small cell facilities and wireless support structures, which are effective
insofar as they do not conflict with federal and state law, rule and
regulations.
      ELIGIBLE FACILITIES REQUEST. The same as defined by the FCC in 47 U.S.C.
1455 (a)(2), as may be amended, which defines that term as any request for
modification of an existing support structure that does not substantially
change the physical dimensions of such support structure, involving: (1)
Collocation of new small cell facilities; (2) Removal of small cell facilities;
or (3) Replacement of small cell facilities.
      FRANCHISE AUTHORITY. See CABLE FRANCHISE.
      FCC. The U.S. Federal Communications Commission and any legally
appointed, designated, or elected agent or successor.
      HISTORIC DISTRICT. A building, property, or site, or group of buildings,
properties, or sites that are either of the following: (1) Listed in the
National Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for
listing by the Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been
delegated the authority by the federal agency to list properties and determine
their eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with section
VI.D.1.a.i-v of the nationwide programmatic agreement codified at 47 C.F.R.
part 1, Appendix C; (2) A registered historic district as defined in R.C. §
149.311.
      MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small cell facility that is not more than 24
inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height and that does not
have an exterior antenna more than 11 inches in length suspended on cable
strung between wireless support structures.
      MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE. The structures, facilities, fixtures, and other
such appurtenances owned by the city, including but not limited to: poles,
fixtures, manholes, pipes, wires, fiber, transformers, hydrants, valves, catch
basins, roadways, traffic signals, sidewalks, curb and gutters, street signs,
junction boxes.
      OHIO MANUAL OF UNIFORM TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES (OMUTCD). The uniform
system of traffic control devices promulgated by the Ohio Department of
Transportation.
      OCCUPY or USE. With respect to the right-of- way, to place a tangible
thing in the right-of-way for any purpose, including, but not limited to,
constructing, repairing, positioning, maintaining, or operating lines, poles,
pipes, conduits, ducts, equipment, or other structures, appurtenances, or
facilities necessary for the delivery of public utility services or any
services provided by a cable operator.
      OPERATOR. A wireless service provider, cable operator, or a video service
provider that operates a small cell facility and provides wireless service. For
the purpose of this chapter, OPERATOR includes a wireless service provider,
cable operator, or a video service provider that provides information services
as defined in the "Telecommunications Act of 1996," 110 Stat. 59, 47 U.S.C.
153(20), and services that are fixed in nature or use unlicensed spectrum.
      PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, or partnership and also includes
any governmental entity.
      PUBLIC UTILITY or UTILITY. A facilities-based provider of wireless
service to one or more end users in this state, or any company described in
R.C. § 4905.03 and as further defined in R.C. § 4905.02, including but not
limited to the following types of companies: telephone, electric light, gas,
natural gas, pipe-lines, water-works, and sewage disposal systems.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. The surface of and the space above and below the paved or
unpaved portions of any public street, public road, public highway, public
freeway, public lane, public path, public bike path, public way, public alley,
public court, public sidewalk, public boulevard, public parkway, public drive
and any other land dedicated or otherwise designated for the same now or
hereafter held by the city "right-of-way" shall not include private easements
or public property, except to the extent the use or occupation of public
property is specifically granted in a right-of-way permit or by administrative
regulation.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT, GENERAL. A permit issued by the city, subject to
Chapter 97: Rights of Way, that must be obtained in order to perform any work
in, on, above, within, over, below, under, or through any part of the right-of-
way, including, but not limited to, the act or process of digging, boring,
tunneling, trenching, excavating, obstructing, or installing, as well as the
act of opening and cutting into the surface of any paved or improved surface
that is part of the right-of-way. Also, a permit issued by the city that must
be obtained in order to occupy the city right- of-way.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT, SMALL CELL. A permit issued by the city for the
collocation, construction, maintenance, operation, or replacement of small cell
facility(ies) and/or wireless support structures in, along, across, upon and
under the right-of-way.
      SMALL CELL FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the following
requirements:
         (a)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of not more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an enclosure of
not more than six cubic feet in volume.
         (b)   All other wireless equipment associated with the facility is
cumulatively not more than 28 cubic feet in volume. The calculation of
equipment volume shall not include electric meters, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation boxes, grounding equipment, power transfer
switches, cut-off switches, and vertical cable runs for the connection of power
and other services.
      SUBSTANTIAL CHANGE. Has the same meaning as described in 47 C.F.R. §
1.40001(b)(7).
      TOLLING or TOLL PERIOD. The pausing or delaying of the running of a
required time period.
      UTILITY POLE. A structure that is designed for, or used for the purpose
of, carrying lines, cables, or wires for electric or telecommunications
service. UTILITY POLE excludes street signs and decorative poles.
      VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER. A person granted a video service authorization
under R.C. §§ 1332.21 to 1332.34.
      WIRELESS FACILITY.
         (a)   Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including
all of the following:
            1.   Equipment associated with wireless communications;
            2.   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable,
regular and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration.
         (b)   The term includes small cell facilities.
         (c)   The term does not include any of the following:
            1.   The structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated;
            2.   Coaxial or fiber-optic cable that is between wireless support
structures or utility poles or that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with a particular antenna.
      WIRELESS SERVICE. Any services using licensed or unlicensed wireless
spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile, provided to the public using
wireless facilities.
      WIRELESS SERVICE PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless service as
defined herein.
      WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A pole, street light pole, traffic signal
pole, a 15-foot or taller sign pole, or utility pole capable of supporting
small cell facilities, excluding utility poles or other facilities used to
supply traction power to public transit systems, including railways, trams,
streetcars, and trolleybuses.
      WIRELINE BACKHAUL FACILITY. A facility used for the transport of
communications service or any other electronic communications by coaxial,
fiber-optic cable, or any other wire.
(Ord. 3636, passed 7-10-18)
§ 99.04 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   General requirements. The following requirements shall apply to all
small cell facilities and wireless support structures proposed within the
right-of- way.
      (1)   No person shall occupy or use the right-of- way except in
accordance with law.
      (2)   In occupying or using the right-of-way, no person shall
unreasonably compromise the public health, safety, and welfare.
      (3)   No person shall occupy or use the right-of- way without first
obtaining, under this chapter, Chapter 97: Rights of Way, or R.C. § 1332.24 or
4939.031, any requisite consent of the city. Before placing small cell
facilities or wireless support structures in the right-of-way, an operator must
apply for and receive a general right-of- way permit as provided by Chapter 97:
Rights of Way.
   (B)   Pre-application conference. Applicants are strongly encouraged to
contact the city and request a pre-application conference. This meeting will
provide an opportunity for early coordination regarding proposed small cell
facilities and wireless support structure locations and design, and the
application submittal and review process, in order to avoid any potential
delays in the processing of an application and deployment of small cell
facilities and wireless support structures in the city.
   (C)   Application required. In accordance with federal and state law and the
city code, an operator may apply to the city to collocate a small cell facility
on an existing wireless support structure and to construct, maintain, modify,
operate, or replace wireless support structures in, along, across, upon, and
under the city rights-of-way. Anyone seeking to collocate a small cell facility
on an existing wireless support structure and/or to construct, maintain,
modify, operate, or replace wireless support structures in, along, across,
upon, and under the city rights-of-way shall first duly file a written
application with the city, in accordance with the requirements in this section
and additional requirements set forth in the Design Guidelines as modified from
time to time by the City Manager.
   (D)   Required application materials. Unless otherwise required by state or
federal law, all applicants shall submit to the city materials and information
associated with each application as outlined in the Design Guidelines in order
for the application to be considered complete.
(Ord. 3636, passed 7-10-18)
§ 99.05 APPLICATION REVIEW TIMEFRAMES AND PROCESS.
   (A)   Permit application review timeframes.
      (1)   Collocation of small cell facilities on existing wireless support
structures. The city shall grant or deny its consent for requests to collocate,
or to replace or modify a small cell facility on, or associated with, an
existing wireless support structure not later than 90 days after the date of
filing by an entity of a completed application.
      (2)   New wireless support structures and associated small cell
facilities. The city shall grant or deny its consent for requests to construct,
modify, or replace a wireless support structure associated with a small cell
facility within the right-of-way not later than 120 days after the date of
filing by an entity of a completed application.
      (3)   Wireless support structure and/or small cell facilities removal.
The city shall grant or deny its consent for requests to remove wireless
support structures associated with small cell facilities from the right-of-way
typical to the review timeframes for the general right-of-way permit required
for this activity.
      (4)   Eligible facilities request. The city shall approve eligible
facilities requests in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4939, 47 C.F.R. § 1.40001,
and with this chapter not later than 60 days after the date of filing by an
entity of a submitted application.
   (B)   Failure to grant or deny within prescribed timeframes. If the city
fails to approve or deny a request for consent under this section or a request
for a relevant work permit within the timeframes required under division (A) of
this section, provided the time period is not tolled under division (D) of this
section or extended with the written consent of the applicant and the City
Manager, the request shall be deemed granted upon the requesting entity
providing notice to the city that the time period for acting on the request has
lapsed.
   (C)   Application denials.
      (1)   The city shall not unreasonably withhold or deny consent for small
cell facilities and wireless support structures within the right-of-way.
      (2)   If a request for consent is denied, the city shall provide in
writing its reasons for denying the request, supported by substantial,
competent evidence, and such information as the applicant may reasonably
request to obtain consent. The denial of consent shall not unreasonably
discriminate against the entity requesting the consent.
      (3)   Except in the case of a public utility subject to the jurisdiction
and recognized on the rolls of the public utilities commission or of a cable
operator possessing a valid franchise awarded pursuant to the "Cable
Communications Policy Act of 1984," 98 Stat. 2779, 47 U.S.C.A. 541, the city,
for good cause shown, may withhold, deny, or delay its consent to any person
based upon the person's failure to possess the financial, technical, and
managerial resources necessary to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare.
   (D)   Tolling of required timeframes.
      (1)   The time periods required in division (A) of this section may be
tolled only:
         (a)   By mutual agreement between the entity requesting consent and
the city;
         (b)   In cases where the city determines that the application is
incomplete; or
         (c)   If the number of requests for consent for small cell facilities
or wireless support structures received is likely to result in difficulty
processing applications within the time limits set forth in division (A) of
this section due to the lack of resources of the city, then the city may toll
the time limits as follows:
            1.   The time period may be tolled for up to 21 days for the first
15 small cell facility or wireless support structure requests received by the
city above the thresholds provided in the table below within any consecutive
30-day period:
 
Population of City at Time Small Cell Facility or    Number of Applications
Wireless Support Structure Applications are Received
30,000 persons or less                               15 applications or more
30,001 to 40,000 persons                             20 applications or more
40,001 to 50,000 persons                             25 applications or more
50,001 to 60,000 persons                             30 applications or more
60,001 to 100,000 persons                            60 applications or more
 
            2.   Further, for every additional 15 requests that the city
receives above the thresholds provided in the table above the city may toll the
time period for those requests for up to 15 days in addition to the time period
provided in division (D)(1)(c)1. of this section.
            3.   In no instance shall the city toll the time period for any
small cell facility or wireless support structure request by more than 90
consecutive days. Upon request, the city shall provide an operator written
notice of the time limit for a small cell facility or wireless support
structure request.
      (2)   To toll the time period for incompleteness, the city shall provide
written notice to the person requesting consent not later than 30 days after
receiving the request, clearly and specifically delineating all missing
documents or information. The missing documents or information shall be
reasonably related to determining whether the request meets the requirements of
applicable federal and state law. Any notice of incompleteness requiring other
information or documentation, including information of the type described in
R.C. § 4939.0313 or documentation intended to illustrate the need for the
request or to justify the business decision for the request, in accordance with
state and federal law, does not toll the time period for incompleteness.
      (3)   The time period for granting or denying consent resumes when the
entity makes a supplemental submission in response to the city's notice of
incompleteness.
      (4)   If a supplemental submission is inadequate, the city shall notify
the entity not later than ten days after receiving the supplemental submission
that the supplemental submission did not provide the information identified in
the original notice that delineated missing documents or information. The time
period may be tolled in the case of second or subsequent notices under the
procedures identified in divisions (D)(1) to (D)(3) of this section. Second or
subsequent notices of incompleteness may not specify missing documents or
information that was not delineated in the original notice of incompleteness.
   (E)   Consolidated application for multiple small cell facilities and/or
wireless support structures.
      (1)   Applicants seeking to construct, modify, collocate, or replace more
than one small cell facility or more than one wireless support structure may
file, at the applicant's discretion, a consolidated application for up to 30
small cell facility requests or up to 30 wireless support structure requests in
a single application and receive a single permit for the construction,
modification, collocation, or replacement of the small cell facilities or
wireless support structures subject to the following:
         (a)   This single application may be filed for multiple small cell
facilities or multiple wireless support structures only if they are of
substantially the same type.
         (b)   The city may separately address small cell facility collocations
or wireless support structures for which incomplete information has been
received or which are denied.
      (2)   In the case of a consolidated application, the fees provided for in
R.C. § 4939.0316 and §
99.04 may be cumulative. However, the city, at its discretion may opt to reduce
such fees in order to encourage consolidated application submittals.
      (3)   In the case of a consolidated application, each small cell facility
or wireless support structure proposed to be constructed, modified, collocated
on, or replaced shall constitute a separate request for consent for purposes of
tolling the response deadline as authorized under R.C. § 4939.036 and division
(D)(1) of this section. A request by a single operator for a new or replacement
wireless support structure and associated small cell facility constitutes one
request.
      (4)   If multiple applications are received by the city to install two or
more wireless support structures that would violate the requirements of §
99.06 Design Guidelines, or to collocate two or more small cell facilities on
the same wireless support structure, the city shall process and render a
decision in the order they are received.
      (5)   In the event that an application is received by the city to install
a wireless support structure or small cell facility in a location in common
with another application for a facility in the ROW, preference shall be granted
in the following order of service provided:
         (a)   Municipal infrastructure
         (b)   Water
         (c)   Electricity
         (d)   Gas
         (e)   Landline telephone
         (f)   Fiber
         (g)   CATV
         (h)   Petroleum pipelines
         (i)   Wireless service
   (F)   Timeframe for completion of permit.
      (1)   Collocations of small cell facilities on existing wireless support
structures and the construction of new wireless support structures and/or
associated small cell facilities for which permits have been granted shall be
completed by the operator or its agent within 180 days after issuance of the
permit, unless:
         (a)   The city and the operator agree to extend this period; or
         (b)   A delay is caused by make-ready work for a city-owned wireless
support structure or decorative pole or by the lack of commercial power or
backhaul availability at the site, provided that:
            1.   The operator has made a timely request within 60 days after
the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul services; and
            2.   The additional time to complete installation does not exceed
360 days after issuance of the permit.
      (2)   If divisions (F)(1)(a) and (b) of this section cannot be met, the
permit shall be void unless the city grants an extension in writing to the
operator.
   (G)   Small cell facility and wireless support structure activities not
requiring consent.
      (1)   City consent shall not be required for either of the following
activities conducted in the right-of-way:
         (a)   Routine maintenance of wireless facilities;
         (b)   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are consistent with the city's current design requirements and guidelines
and that are either:
            1.   Substantially similar to the existing wireless facilities; or
            2.   The same size or smaller than the existing wireless
facilities.
      (2)   The city may require a general right-of-way permit for any activity
described in division (G)(1) of this section and for any activity for which
consent is authorized herein and in accordance with state and federal law.
   (H)   Amendments. Amendments to an application in process which are not part
of a response to a notice of incompleteness or a correction notice shall be
treated as a new application.
(Ord. 3636, passed 7-10-18)
§ 99.06 SMALL CELL DESIGN GUIDELINES.
   (A)   The City Manager shall promulgate detailed Design Guidelines with
objective, technically feasible criteria applied in a non-discriminatory manner
that reasonably match the aesthetics and character of the immediate area
regarding all of the following, which the city shall consider in reviewing an
application:
      (1)   The location of any ground-mounted small cell facilities;
      (2)   The location of a small cell facility on a wireless support
structure;
      (3)   The appearance and concealment of small cell facilities, including
those relating to materials used for arranging, screening, and landscaping;
      (4)   The design and appearance of a wireless support structure.
   (B)   The Design Guidelines shall describe small cell facilities
preferences.
   (C)   The provisions in this section shall not limit or prohibit the City
Manager's discretion to promulgate and make publicly available other
information, materials or requirements in addition to, and separate from,
Design Guidelines so long as the information, materials, or requirements do not
conflict with state or federal law.
   (D)   The City Manager shall have authority to update or supplement the
Design Guidelines to address relevant changes in law, technology, or
administrative processes. In the event of any conflict between the Design
Guidelines and the standards articulated in this chapter, the language of this
chapter shall take precedence over the language of the Design Guidelines.
(Ord. 3636, passed 7-10-18)
§ 99.07 STANDARD CONDITIONS OF PERMIT APPROVAL.
   (A)   Standard conditions of approval. Permission to site small cell
facilities and wireless support structures in the right-of-way shall be
conditioned on compliance with the standard conditions of approval provided in
this section. The City Manager or his or her designee may add or modify
conditions of approval as necessary or appropriate to protect and promote the
public health, safety, and welfare.
   (B)   Small cell facility permit duration.
      (1)   The city's approval term of an attachment to a wireless support
structure shall be for a period of not less than ten years, with presumption of
renewal for successive five year terms, subject to terms providing for early
termination or nonrenewal for cause or by mutual agreement and unless otherwise
agreed to by both the operator and the city, except for generally applied
permitting to safeguard the public health, safety, and welfare. An operator may
remove its small cell facilities at any time subject to applicable permit
requirements and may stop paying annual charges or fees under division (M) of
this section.
      (2)   In the event that any court of competent jurisdiction invalidates
any portion of state or federal law which mandates approval of any permit, such
permit shall automatically expire one year from the date of the judicial order
and all appeals have been exhausted.
   (C)   Compliance with all applicable laws.
      (1)   Permittee shall at all times maintain compliance with all
applicable federal, state and local laws, regulations, ordinances, or other
rules.
      (2)   If state or federal standards and regulations are amended, the
owners of the small cell facilities and/or wireless support structures governed
by this chapter shall bring any facilities and/or structures into compliance
with the revised standards and regulations within six months of the effective
date of the standards and regulations, unless a different compliance schedule
is mandated by the regulating agency. Failure to bring small cell facilities
and/or wireless support structures into compliance with any revised standards
and regulations shall constitute grounds for removal at the owner's expense.
   (D)   Inspections; emergencies. The city or its designee may inspect small
cell facilities and wireless support structures in the right-of-way upon
reasonable notice to the permittee. The permittee shall cooperate with all
inspections. The city reserves the right to support, repair, disable, or remove
any elements of the facility in emergencies or when the facility threatens
imminent harm to persons or property.
   (E)   Relocation or adjustment as requested by city. If requested by the
city, in order to accomplish construction and maintenance activities directly
related to improvements for the health, safety, and welfare of the public, an
operator shall relocate or adjust its facilities within the right-of-way at no
cost to the city, as long as such request similarly binds all users in or on
such public way. Such relocation or adjustment shall be completed in accordance
with law.
   (F)   Contact information for responsible parties. Permittee shall at all
times maintain accurate contact information for all parties responsible for the
facility, which shall include a phone number, street mailing address, and email
address for at least one natural person. All such contact information for
responsible parties shall be provided to the City Manager.
   (G)   Indemnification. Any operator who owns or operates small cell
facilities or wireless support structures in the right-of-way shall indemnify,
protect, defend, and hold the city and its elected officials, officers,
employees, agents, and volunteers harmless against any and all claims,
lawsuits, judgments, costs, liens, losses, expenses, fees to include reasonable
attorney fees and costs of defense, proceedings, actions, demands, causes of
action, liability and suits of any kind and nature, including personal or
bodily injury or death, property damage or other harm for which recovery of
damages is sought, to the extent that it is caused by the negligence of the
operator who owns or operates small cell facilities and wireless service in the
right-of-way, any agent, officer, director, representative, employee,
affiliate, or subcontractor of the operator, or their respective officers,
agents, employees, directors, or representatives while installing, repairing,
or maintaining facilities in the right-of- way.
   (H)   Interference with public safety radio services. In occupying or using
the right-of-way, no person shall unreasonably compromise the public health,
safety, and welfare. Permittees shall comply with the applicable provisions of
47 CFR §§ 22.970-973 and 47 CFR §§ 90.672-675 respectively, which define
unacceptable interference, state the obligations of licensees to abate
unacceptable interference, provide interference resolution procedures, and set
forth a discretionary information exchange between public safety licensees and
other licensees.
   (I)   Adverse physical impacts on adjacent properties. Permittee shall
undertake all reasonable efforts to avoid undue adverse physical impacts to
adjacent properties and/or uses that may arise from the construction,
operation, maintenance, modification, or removal of the small cell facility
and/or wireless support structure.
   (J)   Good condition required. Small cell facilities and wireless support
structures including but not limited to all landscaping, fencing, and related
equipment shall at all times be kept and maintained in good condition, order,
and repair by qualified maintenance and construction personnel, so that the
same shall not menace or endanger the health, safety or welfare of any person
or property. Examples of poor condition include, but are not limited to:
peeling, flaking, or blistered paint; rust or other visible deterioration of
materials; or failure to maintain required landscape screening. All small cell
facilities and wireless support structures including but not limited to all
landscaping, fencing, and related equipment shall be subject to generally
applicable property maintenance requirements as provided in the Property
Maintenance Code, and to visual inspection by code enforcement officers to
ensure compliance. Enforcement procedures for any property maintenance
violation by a small cell facility and/or wireless support structure shall be
as provided in the Property Maintenance Code.
   (K)   Graffiti abatement. Permittee shall remove any graffiti on the small
cell facility at permittee's sole expense.
   (L)   RF exposure compliance. All facilities must comply with all standards
and regulations of the FCC and any other state or federal government agency
with the authority to regulate RF exposure standards.
   (M)   Removal of small cell facilities if use discontinued or abandoned.
      (1)   In the event that the use of a small cell facility and/or wireless
support structure is discontinued, the owner or operator of the small cell
facility and/or wireless support structure shall submit a request for consent
to remove the wireless support structure or small cell facility, as provided in
§
99.05(A)(3), which shall serve as the notice to the city of its intent to
discontinue use and the date when the use shall be discontinued. If the small
cell facility and/or wireless support structure is not removed within 365 days
of discontinued use, the small cell facility and/or wireless support structure
shall be considered abandoned and the city may remove it at the owner's
expense.
      (2)   Small cell facilities and wireless support structures determined by
the city to be abandoned without notice from the owner may be removed by the
city at the owner's expense to ensure the public health, safety, and welfare.
      (3)   The city reserves the right to inspect and to request information
from the operator, which the operator shall provide following such request, as
to the continued use of the operator's small cell facility(ies) or wireless
support structure(s) within the right-of-way.
   (N)   Site restoration. Upon completion of the new work, the contractor
shall restore the street and/or alley pavement; all concrete walks, driveway
aprons, and other concrete; and all tree lawns and/or sod strips with topsoil
and sod as required.
   (O)   General construction. All work and designs shall comply with the
following general standards for construction in the city right-of-way:
      (1)   City of West Carrollton Codified Ordinances;
      (2)   City of West Carrollton Standard Construction Drawings;
      (3)   City of West Carrollton Construction and Material Specifications;
      (4)   Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) Location and Design
Manual;
      (5)   ODOT Standard Drawings;
      (6)   ODOT Construction and Material Specifications;
      (7)   Ohio Manual of Traffic Control Devices;
      (8)   American Association of State Highway Transportation Officials
(AASHTO) A Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and Streets;
      (9)   AASHTO Roadside Design Guide;
      (10)   AASHTO Guide for the Planning, Design, and Operation of Pedestrian
Facilities;
      (11)   AASHTO Guide for Development of Bicycle Facilities;
      (12)   United States Access Board (USAB) Proposed Guidelines for
Pedestrians in the Public Right-of-Way;
      (13)   USAB American with Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines;
      (14)   National Fire Protection Association 70 National Electric Code;
and
      (15)   All other applicable local, state, and federal codes and
regulations.
   (P)   Taxes and assessments. To the extent taxes or other assessments are
imposed by taxing authorities on the use of city property as a result of an
applicant's use or occupation of the right-of-way, the applicant shall be
responsible for payment of such taxes, payable annually unless otherwise
required by the taxing authority.
   (Q)   Setbacks for visibility and access. Any new small cell facility or
wireless support structure and other improvements associated with a new small
cell facility or wireless support structure or an existing small cell facility
or wireless support structure must be setback from intersections, alleys and
driveways and placed in locations where it will not obstruct motorists'
sightlines or pedestrian access, as determined by the City Manager.
   (R)   Obstructions. Any new small cell facility or wireless support
structure and other improvements associated with a new small cell facility or
wireless support structure or an existing small cell facility or wireless
support structure shall not obstruct any:
      (1)   Worker access to any above-ground or underground infrastructure for
traffic control, streetlight or public transportation, including without
limitation any curb control sign, parking meter, vehicular traffic sign or
signal, pedestrian traffic sign or signal, barricade reflectors;
      (2)   Access to any public transportation vehicles, shelters, street
furniture or other improvements at any public transportation stop (including,
without limitation, bus stops, streetcar stops, and bike share stations);
      (3)   Worker access to above- ground or underground infrastructure owned
or operated by any public or private utility agency;
      (4)   Fire hydrant access;
      (5)   Access to any doors, gates, sidewalk doors, passage doors, stoops
or other ingress and egress points to any building appurtenant to the right-of-
way; or
      (6)   Access to any fire escape.
   (S)   No placement of any small cell facility or wireless support structure
shall necessitate tree trimming, cause removal of, or otherwise damage any tree
located within the city right-of-way or a designated utility easement.
(Ord. 3636, passed 7-10-18)
§ 99.08 SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Prevention of failures and accidents. Any person who owns a small cell
facility and/or wireless support structure sited in the right-of-way shall at
all times employ ordinary and reasonable care and install and maintain in use
industry standard technology for preventing failures and accidents which are
likely to cause damage, injury, or nuisance to the public.
   (B)   Compliance with fire safety and FCC Regulations. Small cell
facilities, wires, cables, fixtures, and other equipment shall be installed and
maintained in substantial compliance with the requirements of the National
Electric Code, all FCC, state, and local regulations, and in such manner that
will not interfere with the use of other property.
   (C)   Surety bond or equivalent financial tool for cost of removal. All
owners must procure and provide to the city a bond, or must provide proof of an
equivalent financial mechanism, to specifically cover the cost of removal of
unused or abandoned small cell facilities and/or wireless support structures or
damage to city property caused by an operator or its agent of each small cell
facility and/or wireless support structure in case the city has to remove or
pay for its removal. Two acceptable alternatives to a bond include a funds set-
aside and a letter of credit.
(Ord. 3636, passed 7-10-18)
§ 99.09 RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   (A)   Application processing fee. For processing an application for consent,
the city may charge a fee for each small cell facility and wireless support
structure requested as prescribed under R.C. § 4939.0316 and as listed in
Chapter 37: General Fee Schedule.
   (B)   Annual collocation fee. For reimbursement for operator's attachment of
small cell facilities to wireless support structures owned or operated by the
city and located in the right-of-way, the city may charge an annual fee as
prescribed in R.C. § 4939.022 and as listed in Chapter 37: General Fee
Schedule.
   (C)   Tax liabilities and assessments not applicable. Placement of small
cell facilities in the right-of-way or attachment of small cell facilities to a
wireless support structure and any fees associated therewith shall not subject
the city to any state or local tax liabilities or assessments.
(Ord. 3636, passed 7-10-18)
§ 99.10 NONCONFORMITY.
   A nonconforming small cell facility and/or wireless support structure shall
immediately lose its nonconforming designation and must be brought into
compliance with all of the provisions of this chapter, and all other applicable
city laws and ordinances or be removed if any of the following conditions are
present:
   (A)   The nonconforming small cell facility and/or wireless support
structure or a part of the nonconforming small cell facility and/or wireless
support structure is altered, modified, relocated, replaced, or changed in any
manner whatsoever;
   (B)   The nonconforming small cell facility and/or wireless support
structure is damaged or deteriorated and requires any process of
reconstruction, repair, maintenance, or restoration, and the cost of said
reconstruction, repair, maintenance, or restoration exceeds 50% of the small
cell facility and/or wireless support structure's replacement cost; or
   (C)   The nonconforming small cell facility and/or wireless support
structure is abandoned.
(Ord. 3636, passed 7-10-18)
§ 99.11 REVOCATION.
   The following are grounds for revocation or denial of approval:
   (A)   The intentional provision of materially misleading information by the
applicant (the provision of information is considered "intentional" where the
applicant was aware of the inaccuracies or could have discovered the
inaccuracies with reasonable diligence);
   (B)   The failure to comply with any condition of approval, order, or other
applicable law, rule, or regulation which may jeopardize the public health,
safety, and welfare and for which a reasonable time period has been provided
for the permittee to remedy noncompliance;
   (C)   The site, structure or operation is otherwise not in compliance with
any other provision(s) of applicable law;
   (D)   The subject site or use is otherwise not in compliance due to
incomplete work or projects, or is not in compliance due to unperformed or slow
to perform work as part of an open permit.
(Ord. 3636, passed 7-10-18)
§ 99.12 APPEALS.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and decide upon appeals where
it is alleged that there is any written decision made by the City Manager in
the administration or enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   A complete written appeal shall be filed by the appellant within 30
days of the date of the written decision of the City Manager, or the appeal
shall become void. The
appeal shall be filed with the Board of Zoning Appeals. The written appeal
shall:
      (1)   Cite specific provisions of this chapter that are alleged to have
been interpreted in error or the specific action being appealed and the grounds
on which the appeal is being made;
      (2)   Include an application fee for the appeal in an amount set
specified in Chapter 37: General Fee Schedule.
      (3)   Include such other information as may be reasonably required to
render a decision;
      (4)   A statement as to why the appellant has standing as an aggrieved
party to pursue the appeal by a statement of the way in which the written
decision adversely affects the appellant.
   (C)   Upon receipt of an appropriately completed appeal application, the
City Manager shall transmit to the Board of Zoning Appeals all documentation
constituting the record upon which the written decision(s) being appealed were
based.
   (D)   Upon receipt of an appropriately completed appeal application, the
Board of Zoning Appeals shall set a time and place for a hearing on the appeal.
The hearing shall be commenced after an appeal has been filed. Written notice
of the hearing shall be sent to the aggrieved party at least ten days prior to
the hearing. The failure of delivery of such notice, however, shall not
invalidate any subsequent proceedings. The aggrieved party or its
representative may appear and be heard at the hearing, and present any evidence
the party desires in support of its position.
   (E)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may affirm, reverse, or modify, in whole
or in part, the decision appealed from, and to that end, the Board of Zoning
Appeals shall have all the powers of the City Manager with respect to such
decision. The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Board of
Zoning Appeals shall be necessary to reverse or modify any decision of the City
Manager under this chapter. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall render a written
decision on the appeal without unreasonable delay after the close of the
hearing, and in all cases within 30 days after the close of the hearing.
   (F)   The filing of an appeal shall stay any further administrative action
in regards to the written decision being appealed until a decision on the
appeal is rendered by the Board of Appeals.
   (G)   The City Manager shall maintain a complete record of all actions of
the Board of Zoning Appeals with respect to appeals.
   (H)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall not be required to hear any case
that has been the subject of an appeal during the previous 12 months, unless
substantial new evidence, critical to the case, becomes available.
   (I)   Appeals from the Board of Appeals in their decision on appeals
applications shall be to the county court of common pleas, as provided by state
statutes.
(Ord. 3636, passed 7-10-18)
§ 99.13 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are severable. If any provision or
subsection, or the application of any provision or subsection to any person or
circumstances is held invalid, the remaining provisions, subsection, and
applications of such ordinance to other persons or circumstances shall not be
made invalid as well. It is declared to be the intent of this section that the
remaining provisions would have been adopted had such invalid provisions not
been included in this chapter when originally adopted by Council.
(Ord. 3636, passed 7-10-18)
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person in violation of any of the terms of this chapter, or who,
being the owner or agent of the owner of any lot, tract, or parcel of land,
shall suffer or permit another to erect, construct, reconstruct, alter, repair,
convert, attach, or maintain any such facility, shall be deemed to have
violated the provisions hereof and commits a misdemeanor of the first degree
each day during the period such violation continues.
   (B)   If any utility installation is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted, attached, or maintained in violation of this
chapter or of any regulations made pursuant hereto, the City Manager, in
addition to other remedies, may institute in the name of the city any
appropriate action or proceeding, whether by legal process or otherwise, to
prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration,
repair, conversion, maintenance, attachment, or use, to restrain, correct, or
abate such violation, to prevent the use of such utility installation, and/or
to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or use in or about such utility
installation.
   (C)   The City Manager is authorized to make requests and to issue orders
regarding utility installations in the right- of-way for the purpose of public
safety and compliance with this chapter. The City Manager is also authorized to
conduct visual and external inspections of utility installations in the right-
of-way at any time and shall make efforts to coordinate with the provider
responsible for a utility installation for any internal inspection of the
relevant equipment.
(Ord. 3636, passed 7-10-18)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
   
110.   SOLICITORS
   
111.   ICE CREAM PEDDLERS
   
112.   TAXICABS
   
113.   HOTEL AND MOTEL TAX
   
114.   CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE
   
115.   ALARM SYSTEMS
   
116.   TAX ABATEMENT
   
117.   MASSAGE SERVICES ESTABLISHMENTS
   
118.   COMPETITIVE VIDEO SERVICE AUTHORIZATIONS
   
119.   CULTIVATING, PROCESSING OR DISPENSING MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROHIBITED
CHAPTER 110: SOLICITORS
Section
110.01   Identification card required
110.02   Application information; card, issuance and term
110.03   Card refusal or revocation; appeal and hearing by council
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 IDENTIFICATION CARD REQUIRED.
   No person shall enter upon the premises of any residence in the city for the
purpose of soliciting orders for or selling goods, wares, merchandise, or
services of any kind or character, unless such person shall have first obtained
an identification card as hereinafter provided. Provided, however, that the
owner or his agent of any product of his own raising or the manufacturer of any
article manufactured by him shall not be required to obtain the identification
card herein required. Not-for-profit groups shall not be required to obtain the
identification card herein required.('70 Code, § 715.01) (Ord. 2362, passed 2-
8-83; Am. Ord. 2938, passed 4-26-94) Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.02 APPLICATION INFORMATION; CARD, ISSUANCE AND TERM.
   (A)   Whoever desires the issuance of an identification card required by §
110.01 shall file with the Police Chief a written application on a form to be
provided, correctly containing the following information:
      (1)   Full name of the applicant.
      (2)   Address.
      (3)   Birthdate, height, weight and color of eyes and hair.
      (4)   If the applicant uses a motor vehicle, the make, model, year and
current registration number thereof.
      (5)   State of issuance of driver's license and number thereof.
      (6)   Name and address of employer.
      (7)   Brief description of goods, wares, merchandise or services
involved.
      (8)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of any crime and, if
so, the nature thereof and penalties therefor.
      (9)   Whether the applicant has previously been employed to conduct
solicitation of orders or door to door sales, and, if so, the name of the
company represented and the goods, wares, merchandise or services involved.
      (10)   Whether the applicant has ever been denied a permit or
identification card for soliciting orders or door to door sales by any other
governmental agency or jurisdiction or whether such a permit or card, if
issued, has been revoked by such other governmental agency or jurisdiction.
   (B)   The Police Chief or his representative shall investigate all
applicants for an identification card and if such investigation reveals that
the applicant has ever been convicted in any jurisdiction of a theft offense,
an offense involving moral turpitude, or an offense of violence, or has
previously been denied an identification card or permit from any other
governmental agency or jurisdiction, or had such a card or permit revoked for
any reason after issuance, or if he should find that valid complaints have been
registered with any agency concerning the manner in which the applicant
solicits orders for or sells goods, wares, merchandise, or services of any kind
or character, or if he should find that the applicant has failed to truthfully
answer any question on his application, the Chief of Police shall have the
right to refuse to issue an identification card to such applicant. Any person
who has been refused an identification card may appeal such decision to the
City Council, as provided in § 110.03 (B).
   (C)   Upon compliance with the foregoing, and upon a finding that none of
the grounds exist for refusal of issuance of an identification card or that
none of the grounds which are reasons for revocation in § 110.03 exist, an
identification card shall be issued by the Police Chief to the applicant, which
shall be valid for a period of one year from the date of issuance. All persons
who have been issued an identification card shall wear it so it is visible at
all times while they are soliciting within the city.
   (D)   The application referred to in § 110.02(A) above shall be accompanied
by an application fee as set forth in Section
37.20 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton. This application fee shall be nonrefundable.
   (E)   Solicitors shall not conduct business in the city between the hours of
7:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. (Ord. 3436. Passed 12-22-09.)
§ 110.03 CARD REFUSAL OR REVOCATION; APPEAL AND HEARING BY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Any identification card may be revoked by the Police Chief at any time
for conditions or considerations which, had they existed at the time of
issuance, would have been valid grounds for its denial; for any
misrepresentation of a material fact in the application discovered after
issuance of the identification card; for violation of any provision of this
chapter or other law or ordinance relating to the operation of the business or
enterprise for which the identification card has been issued; or upon valid
complaints that the person who obtained the identification card is harassing,
abusing, or in any manner becoming a nuisance to the residents of the city in
the manner in which the soliciting of orders is being conducted; or upon
conviction of an applicant, for any federal, state or city law or ordinance
involving moral turpitude.
   (B)   Any person who is refused an identification card or if an
identification card is issued and subsequently revoked may, within 10 days
after receipt of a rejection or revocation notice, appeal to Council by filing
with the Clerk of Council a signed written statement briefly setting forth his
ground of appeal. Council shall give the appellant due notice of a hearing
thereof by certified mail. The appellant may appear before Council in person or
by attorney, and the decision of Council shall be final.
(Ord. 2362, passed 2-8-83; Am. Ord. 2613, passed 8-25-87)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this Chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Ord. 2362, passed 2-8-83; Am. Ord. 2613, passed 8-25-87)
Statutory reference:
   Penalty for fourth-degree misdemeanor, see R.C. § 2929.21
CHAPTER 111: ICE CREAM PEDDLERS
Section
111.01   Identification card required; exception
111.02   Application for card; issuance and term
111.03   Card revocation; appeals
111.04   Noise-producing devices on moving vehicles
111.05   Sale to persons in street prohibited
111.06   Hours of operations
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 IDENTIFICATION CARD REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall sell, offer for sale, or dispense from a vehicle to any
other person, any ice cream, popsicles, ice sherbets, prepared ice cream
drinks, frozen desserts, and other similar products unless the person shall
have first obtained an identification card as required herein. However, the
owner or his agent of any product or manufacturer of any article produced or
manufactured by him shall not be required to obtain the identification card
herein required.
(Ord. 2516, passed 7-23-85) Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.02 APPLICATION FOR CARD; ISSUANCE AND TERM.
   (A)   Whoever desires the issuance of an identification card required by
this chapter shall file with the Police Chief a written application on a form
to be provided, correctly containing the following information.
      (1)   Full name of the applicant.
      (2)   Address.
      (3)   Birthdate, height, weight, and color of eyes and hair.
      (4)   If the applicant uses a motor vehicle, the make, model, year, and
current registration number thereof.
      (5)   State of issuance of driver's license and number thereof.
      (6)   Name and address of employer.
      (7)   Brief description of goods, wares, or merchandise involved.
      (8)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of any crime and, if
so, the nature thereof and penalties therefor.
      (9)   Whether the applicant has previously been employed to peddle ice
cream or conduct solicitation of orders or door-to-door sales, and, if so, the
name of the company represented and the goods, wares, or merchandise involved.
      (10)   Whether the applicant has ever been denied a permit or
identification card for soliciting orders or door-to-door sales by any other
governmental agency or jurisdiction or whether such a permit or card, if
issued, has been revoked by the other governmental agency or jurisdiction.
   (B)   The Police Chief or his representative shall investigate all
applicants for an identification card. If the investigation reveals that the
applicant has ever been previously denied an identification card or permit from
any other governmental agency or jurisdiction or had such a card or permit
revoked for any reason after issuance, or if he should find that valid
complaints have been registered with any agency concerning the manner in which
the applicant peddles or merchandises his wares, the Chief of Police shall have
the right to refuse to issue an identification card to the applicant. Any
person who has been refused an identification card may appeal the decision to
the City Council, as provided in § 111.03(B).
   (C)   Upon compliance with the foregoing, and upon a finding that none of
the grounds exists for refusal of issuance of an identification card or that
none of the grounds which are reasons for revocation in § 111.03 exists, an
identification card shall be issued by the Police Chief to the applicant, which
shall be valid for a period of one year from the date of issuance.
(Ord. 2516, passed 7-23-85)
§ 111.03 CARD REVOCATION; APPEALS.
   (A)   Any identification card may be revoked by the Police Chief at any time
for conditions or considerations which, had they existed at the time of
issuance, would have been valid grounds for its denial; for any
misrepresentation of a material fact in the application discovered after
issuance of the identification card; for violation of any provision of this
chapter or other law or ordinance relating to the operation of the business or
enterprise for which the identification card has been issued; or upon valid
complaints that the person who obtained the identification card is harassing,
abusing, or in any manner becoming a nuisance to the residents of the city in
the manner in which the sale of merchandise of orders is being conducted; or
upon conviction of an applicant, of any federal, state, or city law or
ordinance involving moral turpitude.
   (B)   Any person whose identification card is revoked may, within ten days
after receipt of the revocation notice, appeal to Council by filing with the
Clerk of Council a signed written statement briefly setting forth his ground of
appeal. Council shall give the appellant due notice of a hearing thereof by
certified mail. The appellant may appear before Council in person or by
attorney, and the decision of Council shall be final.
(Ord. 2516, passed 7-23-85)
§ 111.04 NOISE-PRODUCING DEVICES ON MOVING VEHICLES.
   Noise-producing devices employed by vendors or peddlers using motor
vehicles, pushcarts, or tricycles for the sale of ice cream, popsicles, ice
sherbets, prepared ice cream drinks, frozen desserts, and other similar
products shall not be used or operated when the motor vehicle, pushcart, or
tricycle is in motion.
(Ord. 2516, passed 7-23-85) Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.05 SALE TO PERSONS IN STREET PROHIBITED.
   Vendors or peddlers employing motor vehicles, pushcarts, or tricycles for
sale or offering for sale of ice cream, popsicles, ice sherbets, prepared ice
cream drinks, frozen desserts, and other similar products shall not sell or
offer for sale any such products to any person when the person is within any
public street or right-of-way normally used by motor vehicles.
(Ord. 2516, passed 7-23-85) Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.06 HOURS OF OPERATIONS.
   No vendor or peddler using motor vehicles, pushcarts, or tricycles for the
sale of ice cream, popsicles, ice sherbets, prepared ice cream drinks, frozen
desserts, and other similar products shall offer the products for sale on any
public street, sidewalk, or public area in the city except between the hours of
10:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. daily.
(Ord. 2516, passed 7-23-85) Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor for a first offense, and shall be guilty of a fourth degree
misdemeanor for any subsequent offense.
(Ord. 2516, passed 7-23-85)
CHAPTER 112: TAXICABS
Section
112.01   Taxicab defined
112.02   License required
112.03   Application information
112.04   Liability insurance requirements
112.05   Driver's requirements
112.06   Taxicab license fee
112.07   Maintenance and inspection of taxicabs
112.08   Fare approval and posting
112.09   Refusal to pay fare
112.10   License suspension or revocation
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 TAXICAB DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   TAXICAB. Every mechanically propelled vehicle not operated on a fixed track,
which is used or advertised to be used in the occupation of carrying passengers
for hire along other than a fixed route, with no fixed or definite schedule.
('70 Code, § 725.01)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, association, or corporation, either as principal or agent, shall
use or occupy any street, alley, or public place within the city with any
taxicab, without first obtaining a license to do so.
('70 Code, § 725.02) Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.03 APPLICATION INFORMATION.
   Application for a taxicab license shall be in writing to the city manager,
with a statement of the number of taxicabs to be operated, together with the
year, make, type, motor number, and state license number of each vehicle, and
the names of the drivers to be employed to operate such taxicabs.
('70 Code, § 725.03)
§ 112.04 LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or permit the operation of any taxicab within
the city unless such person files proof with the city manager of liability
insurance and maintains such insurance in effect for each such taxicab. The
liability insurance shall be issued by a responsible insurance company,
approved as to sufficiency by the city manager and as to legality by the law
director, and shall provide indemnity for or protection to the applicant
against loss resulting from the ownership, maintenance, or use of the vehicle
as a taxicab in the amount of $50,000 because of bodily injury to or death of
one person in any one accident, in the amount of $100,000 because of bodily
injury to or death of 2 or more persons in any one accident, and in the amount
of $10,000 because of injury to property of others in any one accident. The
insurance policy shall contain a clause obligating the insurance company to
give 10 days' written notice to the city manager prior to cancellation, change
of policy terms, or expiration. A taxicab license shall automatically expire
and the licensee shall be in violation hereof for the cancellation, change of
policy terms, or expiration of insurance without notice as provided herein.
   (B)   In lieu of liability insurance as required herein, an applicant may
furnish a bond binding the principal and sureties to liability for the payment
of judgments in the respective amounts provided for above, provided the bond
and sureties are approved as to sufficiency by the city manager and as to
legality by the law director. ('70 Code, § 725.04) Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.05 DRIVER'S REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall employ, for the purpose of operating a taxicab, any
person unless he is of good moral character, has not been convicted of any
crime involving moral turpitude and is 18 years of age or older. No person not
qualified as provided herein shall operate any taxicab within the city.
   (B)   A taxicab driver's right to drive a taxicab may be suspended or
revoked by the city manager for repeated violations of city ordinances or state
laws regulating the operation of motor vehicles. ('70 Code, § 725.05) Penalty,
see § 112.99
§ 112.06 TAXICAB LICENSE FEE.
   Upon satisfying all other requirements, the city manager in his discretion
may issue a taxicab license to an applicant upon the payment of a fee as set
forth in Section
37.21 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton for each taxicab to be operated within the city.
Licenses shall be issued for the calendar year only. No license shall be
transferable and no rebates shall be made for any unused portion of a license.
(Ord. 3436. Passed 12-22-09.) Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.07 MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION OF TAXICABS.
   All owners and operators of taxicabs shall maintain their equipment in good
mechanical condition at all times; shall not operate vehicles without adequate
brakes and lights; and shall not permit the operation of such vehicles in a
defective mechanical condition which might affect the safe operation thereof.
City police officers shall have the right at all times to inspect taxicabs for
mechanical defects. Failure to comply with the provisions of this section shall
be just cause for suspension or revocation of a taxicab license at the
discretion of the city manager. ('70 Code, § 725.07) Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.08 FARE APPROVAL AND POSTING.
   The maximum fares to be charged passengers of taxicabs shall be submitted to
and approved by the city manager. The approved rate schedule shall be printed
by the licensee and conspicuously displayed on the interior of each taxicab in
view of the passengers. No owner or operator of a taxicab shall charge in
excess of the approved rate schedule. ('70 Code, § 725.08) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.09 REFUSAL TO PAY FARE.
   No person, with intent to defraud the driver or owner of a taxicab, shall
engage or hire a taxicab and fail or refuse to pay the fare therefor on demand.
Refusal to pay the fare or leaving the taxicab without paying the fare, upon
termination of the trip, shall be prima facie evidence of such fraudulent
intent. ('70 Code, § 725.09) Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.10 LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   A taxicab license may be suspended or revoked at the discretion of the city
manager when the licensee is convicted or pleads guilty to a violation of this
chapter or any other ordinance or state law. The city manager may also suspend
or revoke such license when in his judgment the public safety and convenience
requires such suspension or revocation. ('70 Code, § 725.10)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$50. Each day's continued violation shall constitute a separate offense. ('70
Code, § 725.99)
CHAPTER 113: HOTEL AND MOTEL TAX
Section
113.01   Definitions
113.02   Rate of tax
113.03   Exemptions
113.04   Prohibitions against false evidence of tax exempt status
113.05   Tax to be separately stated and charged
113.06   Registration
113.07   Records, inspection, destruction
113.08   Reporting and remitting
113.09   Penalties and interest
113.10   Failure to collect and report tax, determination of tax by director of
finance
113.11   Appeal
113.12   Actions to collect
113.13   Refunds
113.14   Moneys received, where credited
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   (A)   DIRECTOR OF FINANCE. The director of finance of the city.
   (B)   HOTEL or MOTEL. Every establishment kept, used, maintained, advertised
or held out to the public to be a place where sleeping accommodations are
offered for a consideration to guests, in which 5 or more rooms are used for
the accommodation of the guests, whether the rooms are in one or several
structures.
   (C)   OCCUPANCY. The use or possession, or the right to the use or
possession of any room or rooms or space or portion thereof, in any hotel or
motel for dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes. The use or possession or
right to use or
possess any room or any suite of connecting rooms as office space, banquet or
private dining rooms, or exhibit, sample or display space shall not be
considered occupancy within the meaning of this definition unless the person
exercising occupancy uses or possesses, or has the right to use or possess all
or any portion of the room or suite of rooms for dwelling, lodging or sleeping
purposes.
   (D)   RENT. The consideration received for occupancy valued in money,
whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits,
and property or services of any kind or nature, and also any amount for which
the occupant is liable for the occupancy without any deduction therefrom
whatsoever.
   (E)   OPERATOR. The person who is the proprietor of the hotel or motel,
whether in the capacity of owner, lessee, licensee, mortgagee in possession, or
any other capacity. Where the operator performs his functions through a
managing agent of any type or character, other than an employee, the managing
agent shall be deemed an operator for the purposes of this chapter, and shall
have the same duties and liabilities as his principal. Compliance with the
provisions of this chapter by either the principal or the managing agent shall,
however, be considered to be compliance by both.
   (F)   TRANSIENT GUESTS. Persons occupying a room or rooms for sleeping
accommodations for less than 30 consecutive days. (Ord. 1826, passed 2-26-74)
§ 113.02 RATE OF TAX.
   (A)   For the purpose of providing revenue with which to meet the needs of
the city, for the use of the general fund of the city, there is levied a tax of
3% on all rents received by a hotel or motel for lodging furnished to transient
guests.
   (B)   The tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient guest to the city,
which is extinguished only by payment to the operator as trustee for the city,
or to the city.
   (C)   The transient guest shall pay the tax to the operator of the hotel or
motel at the time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a
proportionate share of the tax shall be paid with each installment. The unpaid
tax shall be due upon the transient guests ceasing to occupy space in the hotel
or motel. If for any reason the tax due is not paid to the operator of the
hotel or motel, the director of finance may require that the tax shall be paid
directly to the director of finance. (Ord. 1826, passed 2-26-74)
§ 113.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No tax shall be imposed under this chapter:
      (1)   Upon rents not within the taxing power of the city under the
constitution or laws of this state or the United States;
      (2)    Upon rents paid by this state or any of its political
subdivisions.
   (B)   No exemption claimed under the above divisions of this section shall
be granted except upon a claim therefor made at the time rent is collected and
under penalty of perjury upon a form prescribed by the director of finance. All
claims of exemption shall be made in the manner prescribed by the director of
finance. (Ord. 1826, passed 2-26-74)
§ 113.04 PROHIBITION AGAINST FALSE EVIDENCE OF TAX EXEMPT STATUS.
   (A)   No transient guest shall refuse to pay the full and exact tax as
required by this chapter, or present to the operator false evidence indicating
that the lodging as furnished is not subject to the tax.
   (B)   If the transaction is claimed to be exempt, the transient guest must
furnish to the operator, and the operator must obtain from the transient guest,
a certificate specifying the reason that the sale is not legally subject to the
tax. If no certificate is obtained, it shall be presumed the tax applies. (Ord.
1826, passed 2-26-74) Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.05 TAX TO BE SEPARATELY STATED AND CHARGED.
   (A)   The tax to be collected shall be stated and charged separately from
the rent and shown separately on any record thereof, at the time when the
occupancy is arranged or contracted and charged for, and upon every evidence of
occupancy or any bill or statement or charge made for the occupancy issued or
delivered by the operator, and the tax shall be paid by the occupant to the
operator as trustee for and on account of the city, and the operator shall be
liable for the collection thereof and for the tax.
   (B)   No operator of a hotel or motel shall advertise or state in any
manner, whether directly or indirectly that the tax or any part thereof will be
assumed or absorbed by the operator, or that it will not be added to the rent,
or that, if added, any part will be refunded except in the manner thereinafter
provided. (Ord. 1826, passed 2-26-74)
§ 113.06 REGISTRATION.
   Within 30 days after the effective date of this chapter, or within 30 days
after commencing business, whichever is later, each operator of any hotel or
motel renting lodging to transient guests shall register the hotel or motel
with the director of finance and obtain from him a “transient occupancy
registration certificate” to be at all times posted in a conspicuous place on
the premises. The certificate shall, among other things, state the following:
   (A)   The name of the operator;
   (B)   The address of the hotel or motel;
   (C)   The date upon which the certificate was issued;
   (D)   “This transient occupancy registration certificate signifies that the
person named on the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of the hotel-
motel tax ordinance by registering with the director of finance of the city for
the purpose of collecting from transient guests the hotel-motel tax and
remitting the tax to the director of finance. This certificate does not
constitute a permit.” (Ord. 1826, passed 2-26-74) Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.07 RECORDS, INSPECTION, DESTRUCTION.
   Each operator shall keep complete and accurate records of lodging furnished,
together with a record of the tax collected thereon, which shall be the amount
due under this chapter, and shall keep all invoices, and other pertinent
documents. If the operator furnishes lodging not subject to the tax, the
operator's records shall show the identity of the transient guest, if the sale
was not exempted by reason of the identity, or the nature of the transaction if
exempted for any other reason. The records and other documents shall be open
during business hours for inspection by the director of finance, or his agents,
and shall be preserved for a period of 4 years, unless the director of finance,
in writing, consents to their destruction within that period, or by any orders
requesting that the records be kept for a longer period of time.
(Ord. 1826, passed 2-26-74)
§ 113.08 REPORTING AND REMITTING.
   (A)   Each operator shall, on or before the last day of each month make and
file a return for the preceding month, on forms prescribed by the director of
finance, showing the receipts from furnishing lodging, the amount of tax due
from the operator to the city for the period covered by the return, and the
other information as the director of finance deems necessary for the proper
administration of this chapter. The director of finance may extend the time for
making and filing returns. Returns shall be filed by delivering or mailing the
same to the director of finance together with payment of the full amount of tax
shown to be due thereon.
   (B)   The director of finance may authorize operators whose tax liability is
not such to merit monthly returns, as determined by the director of finance
upon the basis of administrative costs of the city, to make and file returns at
less frequent intervals. The authorization shall be in writing and shall
indicate the intervals at which returns are to be filed.
   (C)   All claims for exemptions from tax filed by transient guests with the
operator during the reporting period shall be filed with the return.
   (D)   All returns and payments submitted by each operator shall be treated
as confidential by the director of finance and shall not be released by him
except upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction or to an officer or
agent of the United States, the State of Ohio, the County of Montgomery or the
City of West Carrollton, for official use only.
   (E)   If for any reason, the hotel or motel shall cease doing business in
the city, all returns and payments are due immediately upon cessation of
business.
   (F)   All taxes collected by operators pursuant to this chapter shall be
held in trust for the account of the city until payment thereof is made to the
director of finance.
    (G)   The director of finance, if he deems it necessary in order to insure
the payment of the tax imposed by this chapter may require returns and payments
to be made for other than monthly periods. The returns shall be signed by the
operator or his authorized agent. (Ord. 1826, passed 2-26-74) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.09 PENALTIES AND INTEREST.
   (A)   Original delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any tax imposed
by this chapter within the time required shall pay a penalty equal to 10% of
the amount of the tax, in addition to the tax.
   (B)   Continued delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any delinquent
remittances on or before a period of 30 days following the date on which the
remittance first became delinquent shall pay a second delinquency penalty equal
to 10% of the amount of the tax and previous penalty in addition to the tax and
the 10% penalty first imposed. An additional penalty equal to 10% of the total
tax and penalty of the previous 30 day period shall be added for each
successive 30 day period that the account remains delinquent.
   (C)   Fraud. If the director of finance determines that the nonpayment of
any remittance due under this chapter is due to fraud, a penalty equal to 25%
of the amount of the tax shall be added thereto in addition to the penalties
stated in divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
   (D)   Interest. In addition to the previous penalties imposed, any operator
who fails to remit any tax imposed by this chapter shall pay interest at the
rate of 1/2 of 1% per month, or fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax
exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became
delinquent until paid.
   (E)   Penalties during pendency of hearing or appeal. No penalty provided
under the terms of this chapter shall be imposed during the pendency of any
hearing provided for herein, nor during the pendency of any appeal to the city
manager provided for herein. (Ord. 1826, passed 2-26-74)
§ 113.10 FAILURE TO COLLECT AND REPORT TAX, DETERMINATION OF TAX BY DIRECTOR OF
FINANCE.
   If any operator shall fail or refuse to collect the tax and to make, within
the time provided in this chapter, any report and remittance of the tax or any
portion thereof required by this chapter, the director of finance shall proceed
in a manner as he may deem best to obtain facts and information upon which to
base his estimate of the tax due. As soon as the director of finance shall
procure the facts and information as he is able to obtain on which to base the
assessment of any tax imposed by this chapter and payable by any operator who
has failed or refused to collect the same and to make the report and
remittance, he shall proceed to determine and assess against the operator the
tax, interest, and penalties provided for by this chapter. In case the
determination is made, the director of finance shall give a notice of the
amount so assessed by serving it personally or by depositing it in the United
States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the operator so assessed at his last
known place of business. The operator may within 10 days after the serving or
mailing of the notice make application in writing to the direction or finance
for a hearing on the amount assessed. If application by the operator for a
hearing is not made within the time prescribed, the tax, interest and
penalties, if any, determined by the director of finance shall become final and
conclusive and immediately due and payable. If the application is made, the
director of finance shall give not less than 5 days written notice in the
manner prescribed herein to the operator to show cause at a time and place
fixed in the notice why the amount specified therein should not be fixed for
the tax, interest and penalties. At the hearing, the operator may appear and
offer evidence why the specified tax, interest and penalties should not be
fixed. After the hearing, the director of finance shall determine the proper
tax to be remitted and shall thereafter give written notice to the person in
the manner prescribed herein of the determination and the amount of the tax,
interest and penalties. The amount determined to be due shall be payable after
15 days unless an appeal is taken as provided in § 113.11. (Ord. 1826, passed
2-26-74) Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.11 APPEAL.
   Any operator aggrieved by any decision of the director of finance with
respect to the amount of the tax, interest and penalties, if any, may appeal to
the city manager by filing a notice of appeal with him within 15 days of the
serving or mailing of the determination of tax due. The city manager shall fix
a time and place for hearing the appeal, and shall give notice in writing to
the operator at his last known place of business. The findings of the city
manager shall be final and conclusive and shall be served upon the appellant in
the manner prescribed above for service of notice of hearing. Any amount found
to be due shall be immediately due and payable upon the service of notice.
(Ord. 1826, passed 2-26-74)
§ 113.12 ACTIONS TO COLLECT.
   Any tax required to be paid by a transient guest under the provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the transient guest to the city.
Any tax collected by an operator which has not been paid to the city shall be
deemed a debt owed by the operator to the city. Any person owing money to the
city under the provisions of this chapter shall be liable to an action brought
in the name of the city for the recovery of the amount. (Ord. 1826, passed 2-
26-74)
§ 113.13 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever the amount of any tax, interest, or penalty has been overpaid
or paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or
received by the city under this chapter, it may be refunded as provided in
divisions (B) and (C) of this section provided a claim in writing therefor,
stating under penalty of perjury the specific grounds upon which the claim is
founded, is filed with the director of finance within 3 years of the date of
payment. The claim shall be on forms furnished by the director of finance.
   (B)   An operator may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes
collected and remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once or erroneously
or illegally collected or received when it is established in a manner
prescribed by the director of finance that the person from whom the tax has
been collected was not a transient guest; provided, however, that neither a
refund nor a credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax so collected
has either been refunded to the transient guest or credited to rent
subsequently payable by the transient to the operator.
   (C)   A transient guest may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid or paid more
than once or erroneously or illegally collected or received by the city by
filing of a claim in the manner provided in division (A) of this section, but
only when the tax was paid by the transient guest directly to the director of
finance, or when the transient guest having paid the tax to the operator,
establishes to the satisfaction of the director of finance that the transient
guest has been unable to obtain a refund from the operator who collected the
tax.
   (D)   No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless
the claimant establishes his right thereto by written records showing
entitlement thereto.
(Ord. 1826, passed 2-26-74)
§ 113.14 MONEYS RECEIVED, WHERE CREDITED.
   The moneys received under the provisions of this chapter shall be credited
to the general fund of the city. (Ord. 1826, passed 2-26-74)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor of the third degree and shall be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned not more than 60 days, or both.
(Ord. 1826, passed 2-26-74)
CHAPTER 114: CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE
Section
General Provisions
114.01   Definitions
114.02   Short title
114.03   Purpose
114.04   Procedure for grant of franchise
114.05   Parallel and companion ordinances
114.06   Purpose of Miami Valley Cable Council
114.07   Length of franchise
114.08   Franchise territory
Conditions of Occupancy of the Public Ways
114.10   Construction codes and standards
114.11   Company to exercise reasonable care and diligence
114.12   Overhead and underground construction
114.13   Tree trimming
114.14   Relocation to accommodate public and private improvements
114.15   Right of inspection and restoration
Services and Facilities
114.20   System configuration
114.21   Subscriber services
114.22   PEG access equipment and facilities
114.23   Technical assistance and other inducements for users of institutional
network
114.24   Interconnections
Construction Timetable and Line Extension Policy
114.25   Construction timetable
114.26   Line extensions for areas annexed after the date hereof
Rates and Franchise Fees
114.30   Changes in rates for basic subscriber service
114.31   Rates for other than basic subscriber service
114.32   All rates to be non-discriminatory
114.33   Free service to schools and city-occupied buildings
114.34   Advance charges and deposits
114.35   Disconnection
114.36   Refunds to subscribers
114.37   Franchise fee
Local Business Office, Maintenance Standards, and Complaint Procedures
114.40   Local business office
114.41   Service maintenance standards
114.42   Complaint procedure
Indemnification, Insurance, Bonding, and Escrow Fund
114.45   General indemnification
114.46   Liability insurance
114.47   Performance bond
114.48   Proof of insurance and bonding
114.49   Liquidated damages; assessment of insurance bonding and liquidated
damage amounts
114.50   Right to combine performance bonds and escrowed funds under parallel
ordinances
Books, Records, and Reports
114.55   Books and records
114.56   Reports
Transfer, Assignments, and Transactions Affecting Control of Company
114.60   Council approval required for assignment or transfer of franchise and
for certain transactions affecting company's ownership
114.61   Procedure for council approval of transfers
114.62   Rights of assignment and transfer to and by mortgagees or pledgees
114.63   Notification of council in the event of certain transactions
indirectly affecting control of company
Renewals
114.65   Notice of company's desire to renew
114.66   Renewal applications
114.67   Procedure for considering renewal application
114.68   Continuity of service
114.69   Removal of facilities in the event of non-renewal
Revocation for Cause
114.70   Events constituting grounds for revocation
114.71   Notice, time to correct, and due process required in revocation
114.72   Removal of facilities in the event of revocation
City Action Required to Ratify Certain Council Decisions
114.75   Decisions requiring city ratification
114.76   Council's decisions presumed well-considered
114.77   Timeliness of city ratification
Rights of Individuals Protected
114.80   Discriminatory practices prohibited
114.81   Cable tapping and monitoring prohibited without permission of
subscriber
114.82   Sale of subscriber lists prohibited
114.83   Censorship prohibited on access channels
114.84   Liability for obscenity, defamation, or invasion of privacy on access
channels
Resolution of Disputes
114.85   Intent
114.86   Fact finding
114.87   Mediation; arbitration
114.88   Selection procedures
114.89   Fees and expenses
Miscellaneous Provisions
114.90   Powers of court to enforce compliance with franchise
114.91   Nonenforcement by city
114.92   Compliance with all applicable laws and regulations
114.93   Subsequent action by state or federal agencies
114.94   Delegation of functions
114.95   Notice
114.96   Amendments
114.97   Force majeure
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   (A)   ACCESS CHANNELS. Those channels set aside for public, educational, and
government access programming.
   (B)   BASIC SUBSCRIBER SERVICE. Any service tier which includes the
retransmission of local television broadcast signals.
   (C)   CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM OR SYSTEMS. A network of coaxial cables or
other conductors, equipment, and appurtenances which is capable of receiving,
transmitting, and originating sounds, pictures, writings, data, signals, and
other intelligence.
   (D)   CHANNEL. A signaling path of 6 megahertz provided by a cable
television system to relay class I-IV signals, as defined by the FCC.
   (E)   CITY. The city of West Carrollton, Ohio, a municipal corporation in
and of the State of  Ohio, in its present incorporated form or in any later
reorganized, consolidated, enlarged, or reincorporated form, and its duly
authorized officials acting on its behalf.
   (F)   COMPANY. The recipient of the franchise granted hereunder, Continental
Cablevision of Miami Valley, Inc., and its lawful successors or assigns.
   (G)   COUNCIL. The Miami Valley Cable Television Council established
pursuant to the companion ordinances referenced in § 114.05.
   (H)   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission or its successor.
   (I)   GOOD CAUSE. The set of facts and circumstances which, in an individual
case, a reasonable man would adjudge to be beyond the company's reasonable
control and which would therefore represent a justifiable excuse of
performance. Depending on the facts and circumstances, good cause may include,
but shall not be limited to, delays or interruptions arising from necessary
utility changes, rearrangements, power outages, the fulfillment of governmental
or regulatory restrictions or requirements, national emergency, uncontrollable
material shortages, fire, earthquake, or the elements and acts of God.
   (J)   GROSS REVENUES. All revenues derived from the operation of the cable
system.
   (K)   NORMAL SERVICE INTERVAL. The period between the time that the company
is notified by a subscriber of a reception deficiency and the second close of
business day following the receipt of the notice, provided that the subscriber
or his representative is available, during this period, at the premises to be
serviced.
   (L)   PUBLIC WAYS. The surface, the air space above the surface and the area
below the surface of any public streets, sidewalks, other public rights-of-way
or public places, and public utility easements.
   (M)   SUBSCRIBER. Any person receiving for any purpose the basic subscriber
service of the company's cable television system.
   (N)   USER. Any person who utilizes the company's cable television system
for any purpose other than reception of basic subscriber service, including but
not limited to, the production and  distribution of information on the
governmental, educational, and public access channels, or the use under channel
lease, or otherwise, of the company's facilities to transmit or receive pay
television, alarm, facsimile, data, or other communications services. (Ord.
1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.02 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Cable Television
Franchise Grant to Continental Cablevision of Ohio, Inc.” (Ord. 1907, passed 5-
27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to grant a non-exclusive franchise to
Continental Cablevision of Ohio, Inc., and to provide for the regulation and
control of the cable television system in the city in the public interest. This
franchise, upon approval by the city and the company, constitutes a mutual
agreement between the parties. (Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574,
passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.04 PROCEDURE FOR GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
   Upon consideration of the company's request to extend the franchise and
after duly considering the company's character, legal, financial, technical,
and other qualifications, the city does hereby grant an extension of a non-
exclusive franchise to Continental Cablevision of Ohio, Inc. The city reserves
the right to grant a similar franchise or use of the public ways to any person
or group of persons at any time during the period of this franchise. The
company and the city agree that such extension does not change the
grandfathered status of this franchise under the Cable Communications Policy
Act of 1984, 47 USC, Section 521, et seq. The company further agrees not to
challenge such status or argue to the contrary before any court or regulatory
agency of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.05 PARALLEL AND COMPANION ORDINANCES.
   This chapter is one of several substantially identical ordinances (parallel
ordinances) of Bellbrook, Centerville, Kettering, Miamisburg, Moraine, Oakwood,
Springboro, and West Carrollton, Ohio, who were recipients of the company's
application to provide regional cable television services. It is contemplated
that the cities enacting these parallel ordinances will also enact ordinances
(companion ordinances) delegating regulatory responsibility and authority under
the parallel ordinances to the Miami Valley Cable Council. Notwithstanding any
other provisions herein, this chapter shall be contingent upon and shall become
effective only upon the passage of parallel and companion ordinances by a
sufficient number of the above-named municipalities to entitle the company to
serve a minimum of 25,000 occupied dwelling units. (Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75;
amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.06 PURPOSE OF MIAMI VALLEY CABLE COUNCIL.
   The Miami Valley Cable Council shall foster cooperation among the municipal
corporations granting cable television franchises to Continental Cablevision of
Ohio, Inc. and shall administer all regulatory functions assigned to it herein
on behalf of each municipal corporation. The company shall, when proper notice
is given, appear at all public hearings scheduled by the council to review or
evaluate the company's activities or performance. (Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75;
amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.07 LENGTH OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   This extends the franchise ending on June 30, 1991, for an additional
period of 15 years, ending June 30, 2006. This franchise is considered by the
city and the company to be an extension of the franchise ending June 30, 1991.
   (B)   This extends the franchise for the Village of Springboro ending on
August 19, 1997, for an additional period of nine years, ending June 30, 2006.
This franchise is considered by the village and the company to be an extension
of the franchise ending August 19, 1997.
   (C)   This extends the franchise for the City of Bellbrook ending on April
7, 2000, for an additional period of six years, ending June 30, 2006. This
franchise is considered by the city and the company to be an extension of the
franchise ending April 7, 2000.
(Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.08 FRANCHISE TERRITORY.
   This franchise is for the present territorial limits of the city and any
area annexed thereto during the term of this franchise. (Ord. 1907, passed 5-
27-75; Am. Ord. 2574, passed l-13-87)
CONDITIONS OF OCCUPANCY OF THE PUBLIC WAYS
§ 114.10 CONSTRUCTION CODES AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   Methods of construction, installation, and maintenance of the
company's cable television system shall comply with the National Electrical
Safety Code, National Bureau of Standards Handbook 81 (part 2), United States
Department of Commerce, November 1, 1961, to the extent that the code is
consistent with local law affecting the construction, installation, and
maintenance of electric supply and communication lines.
   (B)   Any tower constructed for use in the company's cable television system
shall comply with the standards continued in Structural Standards for Steel
Antenna Towers and Antenna Supporting Structures, EIA Standards RS-222-A, as
published by the engineering department of the Electronic Industries
Association, 2201 I Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20006.
   (C)   All methods of construction, installation, and maintenance of the
company's cable television system shall also comply with all applicable laws
and rules of the state and of the city. The city reserves the right, from time
to time, to issue, by duly adopted ordinance, reasonable rules and regulations
concerning the construction, operation, and maintenance of the system as are
consistent with the provisions of this chapter and necessary to protect its
residents' rights to the peaceful enjoyment of the public ways. (Ord. 1907,
passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.11 COMPANY TO EXERCISE REASONABLE CARE AND DILIGENCE.
   In the construction, installation, maintenance, removal, or repair of the
facilities herein contemplated, the company shall exercise reasonable care and
diligence to avoid damage, injury, or nuisance to persons or property and shall
install and maintain its facilities in a workmanlike manner so as to minimize
the public inconvenience and so as not to interfere with any facilities of the
city. The company shall comply with all existing city regulations pertaining to
the use of the public ways and shall, at its own expense, carefully guard and
protect all public ways entered and opened by it so as to prevent injury to
persons or damage to property while work therein is being performed. All the
public ways shall be restored to their former condition by the company as soon
as is practicable after completion of work. (Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend.
Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.12 OVERHEAD AND UNDERGROUND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The company shall be permitted to place its cables, wires, or other
equipment overhead when local or state law permits overhead construction and
other like facilities are overhead. The company shall place its cables, wires,
or other equipment underground when local or state law requires underground
placement and where all other like facilities are underground.
   (B)   The city and the council shall use their best efforts with pole owners
to promote the joint use of poles so as to assure the broadest possible wiring
of premises within the city. The company shall not erect any new pole without
first obtaining the city's written approval of the location, type, and
specifications thereof.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this franchise, if, in any
part of the city, satisfactory aerial or underground easement rights over
private property cannot be obtained on reasonable terms, the company shall have
no obligation to build its system or provide service in the area.
   (D)   Any poles owned by the company shall be available for use by the city
at no charge and for lease to other parties at a reasonable fee, so long as the
use complies with all applicable safety standards.
   (E)   All municipally-owned poles and conduits installed within the city
shall be made available for attachment or use by the company at just and
reasonable rates which shall be equivalent to those paid to other utilities.
(Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.13 TREE TRIMMING.
   The company shall have the right hereunder to trim trees in and overhanging
the public ways, in a workmanlike manner, so as to protect its facilities from
abrasive contact. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city, at its option, may,
following written notice to the company, undertake the trimming at the
company's expense. (Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-
87)
§ 114.14 RELOCATION TO ACCOMMODATE PUBLIC AND PRIVATE IMPROVEMENTS.
   The company shall, upon reasonable notice and without expense to the city,
relocate its facilities to accommodate the public works or improvements as the
city shall in its judgment designate. The company shall, at the expense of any
person holding a building moving permit issued by the city, temporarily raise,
lower, or remove its wires to permit the moving of the building. In the event,
the company shall be given not less than 14 days' advance written notice to
arrange for the temporary wire changes. The company's estimated charges for the
work shall be payable not less than 48 hours in advance. (Ord. 1907, passed 5-
27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.15 RIGHT OF INSPECTION AND RESTORATION.
   The city shall have the right to supervise or inspect all work performed by
the company or its agents upon public ways to insure compliance with this
chapter. In the event the inspection reveals that the company has failed, in
the city's judgment, to fulfill its obligations under §§ 114.10 through 114.15,
the city shall notify the council, and the council shall in turn notify the
company, in writing, of its specific deficiencies. Absent commencement of
corrective action by the company within 48 hours of receipt of the
notification, the city, at the direction of the council, may undertake the
necessary repairs or restorations at the company's sole expense. (Ord. 1907,
passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
SERVICES AND FACILITIES
§ 114.20 SYSTEM CONFIGURATION.
   (A)   The company shall establish a cable television system serving the
cities covered by this and parallel ordinances. The system shall have the
capability of interconnection with any other system for the transmission of
video and audio signals.
   (B)   The company shall institute its basic subscriber service on what shall
be know as Cable A. On Cable A, the company shall provide subscribers with a
converter by which means the subscribers will be able to receive a minimum of
30 channels. The converter or other device will be designed to permit closed
circuit and selective viewing through the deletion or addition of filters or
tuning elements. Cable A shall also provide up to 4 reverse transmission
channels to feed local programming to the city's hub.
   (C)   The company shall construct an institutional network on what shall be
referred to as Cable B. Cable B shall be capable of delivering 17 channels in
the forward direction and transmitting, in the reverse direction, 18 channels
for video or non-video uses on either an open or closed circuit basis.
Attachment A to Ordinance 2574, a copy of which is on file in the office of the
city clerk, lists the institutions to which Cable B will initially be
available. The company shall provide the appropriate connectors and extend
cable to an access point within each institution, but the users of Cable B will
provide their own terminal equipment.
   (D)   Assuming demand in excess of what can be reasonably accommodated on
Cables A and/or B, the company shall provide, at a time and upon terms to be
mutually agreed upon by the company and the council, an additional subscriber
service cable to be designated Cable C and/or an additional institutional
service cable to be designated Cable D.
   (E)   The company will extend the institutional service to the Village of
Springboro and to other communities served by the company's integrated south of
Dayton cable system which join the council according to the engineering design
on terms mutually agreeable to the council and the company, per attachment B to
Ordinance 2574, a copy of which is on file in the office of the city clerk.
   (F)   At the time of rebuild, the company shall submit a proposed system
design pursuant to § 114.25. The system design shall be capable of providing an
institutional service, but may propose alternative(s) to cable B for providing
the service.
(Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.21 SUBSCRIBER SERVICES.
   (A)   The company will continue to offer the wide diversity of programming
and information on its system as reflected in its services provided December
30, 1985. The company reserves the right during the franchise term to add new
services and to replace services and to otherwise modify its channel lineup,
but it will maintain the mix, quality, and level of service, and the broad
categories of programming represented by its December 30, 1985, services. In
addition, the company shall provide:
      (1)   An audio override capability for transmission of emergency messages
and alerts;
      (2)   One governmental access channel, one educational access channel,
and one public access channel on the distribution hub contemplated by this
franchise;
      (3)   And as utilization requires, one governmental access channel, one
educational access channel, and one public access channel to be used jointly
under this and parallel ordinances;
      (4)   The company shall have available such channels for commercial use
and leased access as are required by law;
      (5)   Should the law permit, the council shall have the right to
promulgate such broad guidelines as it deems necessary to promote the widest
diversity of programming services;
      (6)   The council permits the company to program any unused PEG access
channels upon the following terms and conditions:
         (a)   That the company program such unused PEG access channels with
non-pay television programming services from the following categories: arts and
culture, public affairs, educational and instructional, children's programming,
and science and nature.
         (b)   That all local credits for these programming services include
reference to both the company and the council and any fees for cablecasting
these programming services be borne by the company.
         (c)   Should the need arise for the PEG access channel capacity, that
the council may request the return of any PEG access channel for PEG access
programming, provided, however, that the council must give the company, in
writing, six months' prior notice.
         (d)   The company shall provide six months', when possible, prior
written notice to council in the event it ceases programming on a PEG access
channel. Further, should the company decide to remove any non-pay programming
service, the company will first make the channel available to the council for
PEG access use should there be a demonstrated need for the channel, limited to
the number of PEG access channels being used by the company. (Ord. 1907, passed
5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.22 PEG ACCESS EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   The company is responsible for the normal repair and replacement of
PEG access equipment the company provides to the council. The company will
comply with requests for replacement equipment by ordering the equipment within
45 days of receiving, in writing, the requests. Replacement equipment shall be
equivalent to the equipment being replaced. If the equipment is obsolete or no
longer practical, other equipment may be substituted by mutual agreement.
   (B)   In order to secure a suitable PEG access facility, the company shall
provide $420,000 to the council for the construction or purchase/renovation and
the equipping of such a facility, with the funds to be paid upon receipt by the
company of invoices or statements for equipment and facility construction. The
PEG access facility shall be designed and constructed/renovated to the
council's specifications, and the company shall be responsible for awarding all
contracts for construction/renovation and for paying all invoices, subject to
approval by the council. Until such time as a suitable PEG access facility is
occupied, the company shall pay no less than 66% of the monthly rental expense
for the existing PEG access facility.
   (C)   The company is responsible for all maintenance of mobile cablecasting
vans provided to the council for PEG access. The council shall insure the vans
and shall be responsible for the gasoline and oil to operate the vehicles. The
van currently owned by the council shall be replaced by the company, at a cost
not to exceed $16,667, on the second anniversary of the adoption of the
parallel ordinances by all of the cities. Upon the adoption of the parallel
ordinances by all of the cities, the company shall provide a second van, at a
cost not to exceed $16,667, to the council. Upon activation of the educational
access channel, the company will provide a third van, at a cost not to exceed
$16,667, to the council. Each van, at the company's expense, will thereafter be
replaced with an equivalent van with necessary modifications after six years of
operation. Upon demonstrated need, the company will provide one step van or
equivalent vehicle in lieu of a standard van, per attachment C to Ordinance
2574, a copy of which is on file in the office of the city clerk.
   (D)   After the educational access channel is activated, the company will
provide $30,000 to the council for the use in purchasing additional video
production equipment for the participating public school districts. The
equipment shall be the property of the council, but shall be dedicated to the
production of educational access programming so long as a channel is dedicated
to educational access.
   (E)   All PEG access equipment and cablecasting vans which are inoperable,
obsolete, or otherwise unusable and which have been declared surplus by the
council shall be returned to the company.
(Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.23 TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND OTHER INDUCEMENTS FOR USERS OF INSTITUTIONAL
NETWORK.
   The company shall provide technical assistance to facilitate the maximum use
of the institutional network on Cable B. (Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend.
Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.24 INTERCONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The city's system shall be interconnected with the systems of other
cities under parallel ordinances. Additionally, at the council's request, the
system shall be interconnected with affiliated systems in North Dayton, Huber
Heights, Fairborn, and Xenia, Ohio. At the council's request, the system shall
also be connected with the system in Dayton. The design of such interconnects
shall be subject to the mutual approval of the council and the company.
   (B)   The company shall use its best efforts to cooperate with any
interconnection corporation, regional interconnection authority, state or
federal regulatory agency which may be hereafter established for the purpose of
regulating, facilitating, financing, or otherwise providing for the
interconnection of systems beyond the boundaries of the city.
   (C)   The company will make a good faith effort, by correspondence and in
person, to interconnect the South Dayton Cable System with the cable system
serving the City of Germantown, with the cost of the interconnection to be
borne equally by the two cable companies. The company shall provide copies of
all correspondence and reports of meeting to the council.
(Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
CONSTRUCTION TIMETABLE AND LINE EXTENSION POLICY
§ 114.25 CONSTRUCTION TIMETABLE.
   (A)   The company agrees to maintain its cable television system in
conformity with the generally accepted state of the art technology for systems
of comparable size and age to the system serving the city.
   (B)   In June, 1991, the company shall submit a proposal for rebuilding or
upgrading the cable television system serving the city, which proposal shall
replace § 114.20 hereof and shall be reasonable to meet the future cable-
related community needs and interests, taking into account the cost of meeting
the needs and interests. The rebuild/upgrade shall incorporate the generally
accepted state of the art technology for systems of comparable size. The
rebuild/upgrade shall commence no later than June, 1992, and shall be completed
within three years, subject to extension for good cause.
   (C)   The company may, however, submit with its proposal a request that the
commencement of the rebuild/upgrade be delayed. The request shall evaluate the
need and justification for rebuilding/upgrading the cable system. Based upon
that report and any other material which it deems necessary and which it will
provide to the company, the council shall determine whether the system rebuild/
upgrade is necessary at that time and reasonably meets the future cable-related
community needs and interests, taking into account the cost of meeting the
needs and interests. The council may modify the rebuild/upgrade requirements or
delay the commencement of construction for periods of not less than two years
and not more than five years, if the rebuild is not necessary at that time or
does not meet the criteria established herein.
   (D)   The criteria the council shall use for making such a judgment shall
include, but not necessarily be limited to:
      (1)   The technical reliability of the cable television service, as
determined by such standards as the number of system outages, the quality of
the cable signal, and whether the cable television system can reasonably be
expected to continue to provide reliable service for the period of the
requested delay;
      (2)   Whether the system conforms to the generally accepted technological
state of the art for systems of comparable size and will accommodate the future
cable-related needs and interests of the community;
      (3)   Whether the system has the ability to accommodate, both in channel
capacity and in technological performance, the current programming service
developments in the market; and
      (4)   Whether the rebuild/upgrade and the provision of such service would
present a clear and convincingly unreasonable financial burden to either the
company or to the subscribers and any other matters relevant to the financial
feasibility and practicality of rebuild/upgrade.
   (E)   As part of the review process, the council may require the services of
independent consultants to evaluate the condition of the system and any
financial and other data pertinent to the rebuild/upgrade. The consultants
shall be mutually chosen by the company and the council, with the cost to be
equally borne by the company and the council.
   (F)   If the company and the council are unable to agree on the need for or
scope of the rebuild/upgrade of the cable television system serving the city,
they may elect to submit the issue to binding arbitration pursuant to § 114.87
(B) hereof. (Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.26 LINE EXTENSIONS FOR AREAS ANNEXED AFTER THE DATE HEREOF.
   (A)   The company shall provide basic subscriber service to all dwelling
units located within any annexed territories where the density is at least 50
housing units per strand mile of system. The charges for the service shall be
the same as those for the previously incorporated sections of the city, except
that where the density is under 50 housing units per strand mile or the
proportion of aerial to underground cable in the annexed area is less than
exists in the city prior to the date of the annexation, the company shall, upon
request and subject to the prior approval of the council, establish a schedule
of rates and charges whereby service will be offered to potential subscribers
in the annexed area.
   (B)   The company shall have no obligation hereunder to provide service in
any area if the area cannot, for technical reasons, be served from the
company's existing head-end(s). (Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574,
passed 1-13-87)
RATES AND FRANCHISE FEES
§ 114.30 CHANGES IN RATES FOR BASIC SUBSCRIBER SERVICE.
   If the ownership or control of the company has changed from that existing on
the effective date of the franchise, as extended (other than a change not
resulting in a change in ultimate control), and if the regulation of basic
subscriber rates is permitted by federal law in the jurisdictions of the
council, the council reserves the right to proscribe any rate increase except
those approved in accordance with the following procedures:
   (A)   The company may petition the council for a change in rates by filing a
revised rate schedule including its justification(s) for the proposed new
schedule.
   (B)   Within 10 days of notification by the council of the place and time
established for a hearing on the petition, the company shall notify its
subscribers of the same by announcement on at least 2 channels of its system,
between the hours of 7:00 and 9:00 p.m., for 5 consecutive days. Following all
proper notice, but in no event later than 90 days from the date of the
petition, the council shall hold an appropriate public hearing to consider the
proposed new rates, at which hearing all parties desiring to be heard,
including the company, shall be heard on any matters relating to the
performance of this chapter, the company's services, and the proposed new
rates.
   (C)   Within 90 days after the hearing, the council shall render a written
decision on the company's petition, either accepting, rejecting, or modifying
the same and reciting the basis of its decision.
   (D)   If the council fails to act within 6 months of the date of the
company's petition pursuant to division (A) above, the company shall thereafter
be entitled to put its proposed new rates into effect on a provisional basis,
provided that it shall keep a full and accurate accounting of all income
resulting from the provisional rates and shall be obliged for a period of up to
6 months thereafter to refund the amount by which the provisional rates exceed
the rates ultimately established by the council. Upon request by the council,
the company shall provide a bond or other reasonable surety in an amount not to
exceed the previously existing rates to ensure that possible refunds due under
this division shall be promptly made.
   (E)   The criteria for the council's decision in such matters shall be the
establishment of rates which are “fair and reasonable” to both the company and
its subscribers and shall be generally defined as the minimum rates necessary
to meet all applicable costs of service, including a fair return on all
invested capital, all assuming efficient and economical management. Such
criteria shall include:
      (1)   The ability of the company to render system services and to derive
a reasonable profit therefrom under the existing rate schedule and under the
proposed rate schedule;
      (2)   The revenues and profits derived from system services;
      (3)   The efficiency of the company;
      (4)   The quality of the services offered by the company;
      (5)   The replacement cost of the system less depreciation;
      (6)   A fair rate of return with respect to the cost of borrowing and the
rates of return on investments having similar risks to that of cable
communications;
      (7)   The extent to which the company had adhered to the terms of this
franchise;
      (8)   Fairness to residents, subscribers, and users;
      (9)   Capital expenditures by the company in providing updated technology
and service to subscribers; and
      (10)   Other factors that the council may deem relevant.
(Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.31 RATES FOR OTHER THAN BASIC SUBSCRIBER SERVICE.
   At least 90 days in advance of the offering of any service or equipment
other than basic subscriber service, the company shall file with the council a
schedule of the rates and charges and the rules relating to the other services
and equipment and shall not alter the same on less than 90 days' notice and
only in accordance with the then applicable rules and regulations of the FCC
and/or other agencies of competent jurisdiction. If, at any time, the
applicable federal or state law would permit council regulation of the rates in
accordance with the procedures in § 114.30, the regulation shall be authorized
hereunder. (Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.32 ALL RATES TO BE NON- DISCRIMINATORY.
   The company shall administer any and all rates and charges so as not to give
preference to or discriminate among subscribers of like category or class.
Nothing in the foregoing shall be deemed to prevent the company from
establishing:
   (A)   Special temporary reduced rates for periodic promotional offers to
attract new subscribers, or for subscribers who pay promptly;
   (B)   Reasonable policies for deposits, penalties, or denial of service
where a particular subscriber has proven a bona fide credit problem;
   (C)   With the prior approval of the council, special schedules of rates and
charges for service to premises in annexed areas not meeting the density
standards established in § 114.26, provided that the same are not inconsistent
with applicable FCC rules and regulations; or
   (D)   Separate rates for commercial and non-commercial users of access
channels. (Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.33 FREE SERVICE TO SCHOOLS AND CITY-OCCUPIED BUILDINGS.
   Each public and private school located in the city shall be given, upon
request, one free outlet and subscription to the system's basic subscriber
service. All city-occupied buildings shall receive, upon request, the same free
service as schools; this shall include, but not be limited to, the courts,
correctional systems, publicly supported health facilities, public safety
facilities, publicly supported day care centers and publicly supported
libraries. Additional outlets and service shall be governed by the other rate
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574,
passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.34 ADVANCE CHARGES AND DEPOSITS.
   The company may require subscribers to pay for basic subscriber service one
month in advance. No other advance payment or deposit shall be required by the
company for basic subscriber service, except as provided in § 114.32 (B). (Ord.
1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.35 DISCONNECTION.
   Except as otherwise provided by the council, there shall be no charge for
the disconnection of any installation or outlet. If any subscriber fails to pay
a properly due monthly subscriber fee, or any other properly due fee or charge,
the company may disconnect the subscriber's service outlet, provided, however,
that the disconnection shall not be effected until 45 days after the due date
of the delinquent fee or charge and shall include 5 days' written notice of the
intent to disconnect properly mailed to the subscriber in question. After
disconnection, upon payment in full of the delinquent fee or charge, any
reasonable collection expense or penalty, and the payment of a reconnection
charge, the company shall promptly reinstate the subscriber's cable service.
(Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.36 REFUNDS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
   (A)   If any subscriber terminates the basic subscriber service during the
first 12 months of service because of the failure of the company to render
service in accordance with the standards set forth in § 114.41, the company
shall refund to the subscriber an amount equal to the installation or
reconnection charges paid, if any, by the subscriber multiplied by the fraction
derived by dividing the month(s) remaining before the annual anniversary of
service, divided by 12.
   (B)   If any subscriber terminates basic subscriber service prior to the end
of a prepaid period, all unearned service fees as of the date the company
receives notice of the termination shall be refunded to the subscriber.
(Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.37 FRANCHISE FEE.
   (A)   As consideration for the franchise granted herein, the company shall
pay to the council an amount equal to 5% of the company's gross revenues.
   (B)   In the event that the law, in the future, permits some larger basis
for computing this fee, the council shall, at its election, be entitled to
collect additional moneys upon 90 days' prior written notice to the company,
and the company shall be entitled to pass through the amount of any such
increase to the subscribers.
   (C)   It is the intent of the council to utilize franchise fees as
necessary, to defray the costs of local regulation of the company, to support
the development of the access channels and generally to encourage development
of the system.
   (D)   Payments due under this provision shall be payable 45 days after the
end of each calendar quarter. Each payment shall be accompanied by a report,
certified by an officer of the company, showing the basis for the computation
thereof.
   (E)   No acceptance of any payment shall be construed as an accord that the
amount paid is in fact the correct amount, and all amounts paid shall be
subject to audit and recomputation by the council from a period of one year
after receipt thereof. In the event that recomputation results in additional
fees owed, the amount shall be subject to a 10% per annum interest charge.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as relieving the company
of its liability for other properly applicable local taxes. (Ord. 1907, passed
5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
LOCAL BUSINESS OFFICE, MAINTENANCE STANDARDS AND COMPLAINT PROCEDURES
§ 114.40 LOCAL BUSINESS OFFICE.
   The company shall maintain its principal office within the corporate limits
of one of the cities granting this or a parallel ordinance which office shall
be open during normal business hours. The office shall have a publicly listed
telephone which can be reached toll-free from all cities covered by this and
parallel ordinances, and shall be so operated that complaints and requests for
repairs or adjustments may be received and processed with a minimum delay.
Provision shall also be made for telephonically receiving service interruption
calls on a 24-hour basis.
(Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.41 SERVICE MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   The company shall render prompt and efficient service and repairs, and
shall voluntarily interrupt service only for good cause and for the shortest
time possible. The interruptions, insofar as possible, shall be preceded by
notice and shall occur during periods of minimum use.
   (B)   Without additional charges to subscribers, the company shall maintain
its facilities in good working order and repair. Any verbal, telephonic, or
written complaint relating to the quality or continuity of service shall be
attended to within a normal service interval. In the event that the complaints
are not responded to, or service is not restored to the levels required by the
FCC during the normal service interval, the subscriber shall be entitled to a
rebate of 1/30 of his monthly service fee for each day or part thereof between
the end of the normal service interval and the time service is restored to the
standards.
   (C)   The company shall maintain the existing system and any rebuilt system
installed and operated pursuant to § 114.25, in conformance with the following
technical standards:
      (1)   C/N - 36 db
      (2)   Gain vs. Freq. 1 Ch. - ±2 db from .75 MHz to 4 MHz
      (3)   Gain vs. Freq. Sys. - 12 db
      (4)   2nd Order Dist. - 54 db
      (5)   Hum. Mod. - <5%
      (6)   Carrier to Triple Beat - 52 db
      (7)   System Leakage -
         Up to 54 MHz, - 15 mv/m @ 100 ft.
         54 to 216 MHz, - 20 mv/m @ 10 ft.
         Above 216 MHz, - 15 mv/m @ 100 ft.
      (8)   Subscriber Isol - 18 db
      (9)   Sys. Level Stab. - 12 db in a 24-hour period
      (10)   Min. Signal Level - 0 db mv
      (11)   Aural Carrier Level - 13-17 db below visual signal level
      (12)   Vis. Car. Freq. - 1.25 MHz from lower boundaries ±250 KHz
      (13)   Aur. Car. Freq. - 4.5 MHz + 1 KHz from visual carrier
   (D)   The company shall perform proof of performance tests for the cable
system following the rebuild and at other times at least annually throughout
the life of this franchise on one subscriber television location per member
city, located throughout the service area. At least half of these locations
shall be at the far end of the distribution trunk cables. The company shall
give 30 days notice to the council prior to conducting the tests. The council
may specify locations to be tested, and the tests may be witnessed by
representatives of the council. A written report of the results of the tests
shall be filed with the council within seven days of such tests, and a written
report as to corrective measures shall be filed either contemporaneously or
within seven days after the filing of the initial test report. If any of the
tests fail to meet the performance specifications, the company shall take
immediate corrective action, retest those locations, and advise the council of
the action and results. (Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-
13-87)
§ 114.42 COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any subscriber, user, programmer, or member of the general public who
has a complaint regarding the quality of cable television service, equipment
malfunctions, billings, or any other matters, which remains unresolved for 30
days after it has been brought to the company's attention, in writing, may file
a complaint, in writing, with the council's designee, the “complaint officer,”
who shall have primary responsibility for the continuing administration of
complaint procedures hereunder.
   (B)   Upon the filing of a complaint, the complaint officer shall notify the
company and make an investigation to determine whether or not there is probable
cause to credit the allegations. If he determines after the investigation that
there is probable cause to credit the allegations of the complaint, he shall so
notify the company and complainant and shall promptly endeavor to resolve the
matter by conciliation and persuasion. In the event the complaint officer is
unable to obtain conciliation within a reasonable time, he shall, with the
consent of the complainant, promptly notify the council of the complaint. The
council shall, within 10 days following the receipt of the notice, schedule a
hearing at which it shall receive evidence to determine if there is a
legitimate complaint. Not later than 14 days after the conclusion of a hearing
the council shall make public its decision which shall include a written
statement of its findings. Hearings may be ex parte if after reasonable notice
the company does not appear. Findings and decisions of the council shall be
advisory only, and nothing shall prohibit the complaint officer from continuing
at any time his efforts to reach conciliation.
   (C)   The company shall notify each subscriber at the time of initial
installation of the council's established complaint procedure, including the
name, address, and local telephone number of the council's complaint officer.
(Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
INDEMNIFICATION, INSURANCE, BONDING, AND ESCROW FUND
§ 114.45 GENERAL INDEMNIFICATION.
   The company shall save and keep the city and the council and their
officials, agents, and employees free and harmless from any loss, expense, or
damage to person or property arising out of, or resulting from, the operation
of the cable system or any provision of the franchise. The company shall, at
its sole cost, defend and indemnify the city and the council from any charges,
claims, suits, cases of action, penalties, fines, and costs (including, but not
limited to, reasonable legal fees and court costs) caused by, or arising out of
this franchise or the construction, operation, or maintenance of the cable
system pursuant thereto, provided, however, the company shall have no
obligation to pay damages, penalties, or fines which are levied on the city/
council as a result of a finding that its officials, employees, or agents were
involved in willful misconduct or fraud. (Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend.
Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.46 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   The company shall maintain and, within 30 days of the effective date of this
chapter, specifically agrees to maintain, throughout the term of this
franchise, liability insurance insuring the city, the council and the company
with regard to all damages and penalties mentioned in § 114.45 above in the
minimum amounts of:
   (A)   $1,000,000 for bodily injury or death to any one person, within the
limit of $2,000,000 for injury or death resulting from any one accident.
   (B)   $2,000,000 for property damage resulting from any one accident.
   (C)   From time to time, this insurance coverage shall be increased or
decreased to ensure that adequate coverage is purchased to reflect the effects
of inflation or deflation and the likelihood of damage awards.
(Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.47 PERFORMANCE BOND.
   The company shall establish and maintain throughout the term hereof the
following bonds:
   (A)   During rebuild construction (in other words from the date of
commencement of construction through the proof of performance test following
construction), a labor and material bond in the sum of $1,000,000 which shall
be used to insure the satisfactory completion of construction;
   (B)   A faithful performance bond running to the city in the sum of $50,000
conditioned upon the faithful performance of the company of all terms and
conditions of this franchise and upon the further condition that, in the event
the company fails to comply with any law, ordinance, rule or regulation
governing this franchise, there shall be recoverable, jointly and severally,
from the principal and surety of the bond, any damage or loss suffered by the
city as a result, including the full amount of property of the company, plus
costs and reasonable attorney's fees up to the full amount of the bond.
   (C)   For any period of time other than rebuild construction, an annual
blanket bond in the amount of $2,000. The blanket bond is to cover any
excavation or cutting into by the company in any street right-of-way area in
the city for that calendar year. An additional permit bond shall be charged by
the city for the excavation of any portion of any street right-of-way based
upon the current cost of resurfacing the area with like material according to
the following schedule:
   4€ Concrete Sidewalk   $ 4.00/S.F.
   6€ Concrete Sidewalk      5.00/S.F.
   Concrete Drive Approach      7.50/S.F
   Sodding, Including Top Soil   4.00/S.F.
   6€ Concrete Pavement      60.00/S.F.
   9€ Concrete Pavement      90.00/S.F.
   Asphalt Residential Pavement      50.00/S.F.
   Asphalt Thoroughfare Pavement      90.00/S.F.
   (D)   In 1991 and at other times pursuant to § 114.49(B), the city/council
shall review these dollar amounts and make adjustments to meet changes in
current costs. (Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-87; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.48 PROOF OF INSURANCE AND BONDING.
   Within 30 days of the effective date of this chapter, the company shall
furnish proof to the council that a satisfactory insurance policy and
performance bond have been obtained. The insurance policy and performance bond
shall be approved by the council, and a copy of the insurance policy and
performance bond along with written evidence of payment of the required
premiums, shall be filed and maintained with the council. The insurance policy
and bond shall specify that at least 30 days' prior written notice shall be
filed with the council of any intention not to renew, to cancel, or to make a
material change therein. (Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed
1-13-87)
§ 114.49 LIQUIDATED DAMAGES; ASSESSMENT OF INSURANCE BONDING AND LIQUIDATED
DAMAGE AMOUNTS.
   (A)   By acceptance of a franchise granted hereunder, the company
understands and agrees that failure to comply with any time and performance
requirements, as stipulated in this ordinance or in the franchise, will result
in damage to the city, and that it is and will be impracticable to determine
the actual amount of such damage in the event of delay or non-performance. The
company therefore agrees that it shall pay to the city, or the council on
behalf of the city, the following amounts which shall be chargeable to the
company:
      (1)   Failure to timely commence or complete the rebuilding of the cable
system as set forth in § 114.25 - $200 per day. In addition to the liquidated
damages, the franchise term shall be reduced one month for each month that the
company defaults in the commencement or completion of construction of a rebuilt
cable system as herein provided.
      (2)   Failure to provide or replace the PEG access equipment as specified
in § 114.22 - $50 per day or part thereof.
      (3)   Failure to provide the PEG access facilities as specified in §
114.22 - $50 per day or part thereof.
   (B)   At the fifth, tenth, and fifteenth anniversary of the effective date
of the franchise, or upon the assignment of the franchise or the transfer of
control of the company (other than an assignment or transfer not resulting in a
change in ultimate control), the city/council shall have the right to reassess
the dollar amounts contained in §§ 114.46, 114.47, and 114.49(A) and to make
increases if the producer price index (formerly the wholesale price index) for
all urban consumers (PPI-U), or its successor, increases by 50% or more as
compared to the PPI-U in October 1986. Furthermore, the council reserves the
right upon such assignment or transfer of control to apply liquidated damages
to additional categories of violations in § 114.49(A) and to negotiate with the
company a dollar amount for each category. (Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.50 RIGHT TO COMBINE PERFORMANCE BONDS AND ESCROWED FUNDS UNDER PARALLEL
ORDINANCES.
   The city may, at its option, join with the cities under parallel ordinances
to require a joint performance bond which shall be subject to all of the
provisions contained in §§ 114.47 through 114.49(A), except that all dollar
amounts shall be equal to the aggregate of the amounts provided in all parallel
ordinances. The council shall apportion any amounts recovered as damages under
the joint bond among the cities under this and parallel ordinances. (Ord. 1907,
passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
BOOKS, RECORDS, AND REPORTS
§ 114.55 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   The company's operations under all parallel ordinances shall be viewed as
one financial and reporting unit, and its books and records shall be kept in
such a way as to show the activities of this unit separate from any other
activities of the company. The council shall have the right to inspect, at any
time during normal business hours, all books, records, maps, plans, income tax
returns, financial statements, and other like materials of the company which
relate to its operations hereunder, including expenses attributed to the system
by any parent corporation. Access to the aforementioned records or any reports
to be provided pursuant to § 114.56 shall not be denied on the basis that the
records or reports contain “proprietary” information. However, the council
shall treat all information obtained from the company with the same degree of
confidentiality as would be accorded similar information by the FCC. (Ord.
1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.56 REPORTS.
   (A)   The company shall file with the city and the council true and accurate
plant maps of the system to be constructed hereunder and shall keep the same as
current as practicable.
   (B)   Not later than 120 days after the end of each fiscal year or 60 days
following the required filing date with the FCC, whichever is later, the
company shall make available to the council for inspection any forms, reports,
or other filings it makes with the FCC.
   (C)   The company shall file with the council copies of all complaints,
petitions, or orders of the FCC, EEOC, or FAA, in which the company is a named
party and the company's response, thereto, if any, all within 10 days of the
company's receipt or filing of the same.
   (D)   Upon reasonable notice, the company shall appear at any meetings or
public hearings called by the council to review or evaluate the company's
activities or performance.
   (E)   All complaints, petitions, or orders received by the city, the
council, or the complaint officer related to the company's activities hereunder
shall be forwarded to the company and answered by it with a copy to the
original addressee within 10 days of receipt.
   (F)   Within 90 days of the end of each fiscal year, the company shall file
with the council:
      (1)   A financial report for the system serving the council cities. The
report shall include a statement of assets and income statement, certified as
to accuracy by the chief financial officer of the company;
      (2)   The current list of names and addresses of the company's principal
management personnel; and
      (3)   The current list of all persons owning a 3% or greater ownership
interest in the system serving the council cities.
(Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
TRANSFER, ASSIGNMENTS AND TRANSACTIONS AFFECTING CONTROL OF THE COMPANY
§ 114.60 COUNCIL APPROVAL REQUIRED FOR ASSIGNMENT OR TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE AND
FOR CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS AFFECTING COMPANY'S OWNERSHIP.
   Council approval, pursuant to the provisions of § 114.61, shall be required
prior to:
   (A)   The assignment or transfer of this franchise, in which event city
ratification, pursuant to §§ 114.75 through 114.77, shall also be required;
   (B)   The issuance by the company of more than 20% of its voting stock to
any person or group of persons other than Continental Cablevisions, Inc. (CCI);
   (C)   The transfer by CCI of more than 20% of the company's outstanding
stock to any other person or group of persons;
   (D)   Any judicial action or proceeding resulting in the transfer of more
than 20% of the voting stock of the company; and
   (E)   Any other transfer of stock or ownership interest which results in a
change in de jure or de facto control of the company.
(Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.61 PROCEDURE FOR COUNCIL APPROVAL OF TRANSFERS.
   The following procedures shall be followed in the council's consideration of
the transactions described in § 114.60 above:
   (A)   Applications for the council's approval shall be made at least 90 days
prior to the effective date of the transaction and shall contain the
information and supporting documentation as would be reasonably necessary for
the council's consideration based on the criteria specified in division (C)
below;
   (B)   Within 90 days of receipt of an application pursuant to division (A)
above, and following a properly noticed public hearing affording due process,
the council shall, by written resolution, issue its approval or disapproval of
the proposed transaction, stating therein the basis of its decision;
   (C)   Council's approval or disapproval of the requested transaction shall
be based on a determination of whether or not the proposed transferee possesses
the character, legal, financial, and technical qualifications then required by
federal, state, or local law to operate a cable television system. Council's
approval of the transaction shall not be unreasonably withheld. (Ord. 1907,
passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed l-13-87)
§ 114.62 RIGHTS OF ASSIGNMENT AND TRANSFER TO AND BY MORTGAGEES OR PLEDGEES.
   Nothing in §§ 114.60 and 114.61 shall in any way limit CCI's right to
pledge, mortgage, or hypothecate its interests in the company to a recognized
financial institution to secure borrowed funds or the institution's rights to
foreclose on, hold, sell, assign, or transfer such interests. Provided,
however, that the mortgagee, pledgee, or its transferee or assignee shall be
subject to all of the terms of this chapter, and provided further that within 6
months from the date of foreclosure by any mortgagee or pledgee, the party or
its transferee shall have been reviewed and approved by the council pursuant to
the procedures enumerated in § 114.61 above. (Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend.
Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.63 NOTIFICATION OF COUNCIL IN THE EVENT OF CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS
INDIRECTLY AFFECTING CONTROL OF COMPANY.
   The stockholders of the company and CCI shall notify the council of any
transaction which results in a transfer or assignment of more than 20% of the
voting stock of their respective corporations. (Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75;
amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
RENEWALS
§ 114.65 NOTICE OF COMPANY'S DESIRE TO RENEW.
   The council may decide that the franchise granted pursuant to this chapter
should be renewed or extended, the company shall notify the council at least 8
months, or at such earlier date as council may request (but not more than 36
months), prior to the expiration of this franchise or any renewal extension
thereof. Failure to make such a timely application shall be cause for the
forfeiture of renewal and extension rights hereunder, unless otherwise waived
by the council. (Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.66 RENEWAL APPLICATIONS.
   The company's renewal application, when filed, shall demonstrate the
following:
   (A) That it has been and continues to be in substantial compliance with the
terms, conditions, and limitations of this chapter;
   (B)   That its system has been installed, constructed, maintained, and
operated in accordance with the accepted standards of the industry and this
chapter;
   (C)   That it has the character, legal, technical, financial, and other
qualifications then required by federal, state, or local law to continue to
maintain and operate its system, and to extend the same as the state of the art
progresses so as to assure its subscribers of high quality service; and
   (D)   That is has made a good faith effort to provide services and
facilities which accommodate the demonstrated needs of subscribers as
reasonably ascertained by the council, provided, however, that the company
shall have no obligation to have provided services, beyond those contemplated
in § 114.21 which adversely impact the economic viability of the system. (Ord.
1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.67 PROCEDURE FOR CONSIDERING RENEWAL APPLICATION.
   Upon a filing consistent with §§ 114.65 and 114.66 above, the council shall,
prior to the consideration of any other applications, consider and act upon the
company's requested renewal in conformance with 47 USC, Section 546, and the
following procedure:
   (A)   Within 90 days of the receipt of the application, the council shall,
following appropriate public notice, hold a public hearing affording due
process on the company's application at which interested parties, including the
company, shall be afforded an opportunity to present oral or written comments.
   (B)    By written resolution reciting the basis of its findings, the council
shall report to the city, within 90 days of the public hearing, that it:
      (1)   Has found that the public interest is no longer served by the
continuation of the system's communications services within the city, and
therefore has decided that any services should not be enfranchised within the
city limits during the year succeeding the date of the company's termination of
service; or
      (2)   Has found that the company has substantially failed to meet the
criteria for renewal established in § 114.66, and therefore has decided that
the company's renewal application should be denied; or
      (3)   Has found that the company has substantially met the criteria
established in § 114.66, except where prevented by conditions beyond its
reasonable control, and therefore has decided that this franchise should be
renewed. (Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.68 CONTINUITY OF SERVICE.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, including its possible
expiration, the company shall be obliged and entitled to continue to operate
its system until 90 days after the city's action pursuant to §§ 114.75 through
114.77 below on the council's decision under §§ 114.65 through 114.69. (Ord.
1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.69 REMOVAL OF FACILITIES IN THE EVENT OF NON-RENEWAL.
   (A)   In the event that the city ratifies the council's decision not to
renew this franchise, the council may require the company to continue
operations for a period not to exceed 12 months from the date of the council's
decision. In the event of the non-renewal, the company shall have 2 years from
the date it ceases operations to remove, at its own expense, all portions of
its system from all public ways within the city and to restore the public ways
to a condition reasonably satisfactory to the city.
   (B)   In the event the city denies the company's request for renewal or
revokes the franchise for cause, the city, or the council authorized by the
city, shall have the option to purchase the cable system assets. If this option
is exercised, any such acquisition or transfer shall be at fair market value,
determined on the basis of the cable system valued as a going concern, but with
no value allocated to the franchise itself, except that, if the franchise is
revoked for cause, the acquisition shall be at an equitable price, pursuant to
47 USC, Section 547b. In order to exercise this option, the city, or the
council authorized by the city, must notify the company in writing within 60
days of the date the denial or revocation is ordered by the city or council;
closing on any such sale shall occur within six months after the order of non-
renewal or revocation becomes final.
(Amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
REVOCATION FOR CAUSE
§ 114.70 EVENTS CONSTITUTING GROUNDS FOR REVOCATION.
   The council reserves the right to decide that this franchise and all rights
and privileges of the company hereunder should be revoked in the event that the
company:
   (A)   Fails to complete construction as specified herein;
   (B)   Breaches or violates any material provision of this chapter or other
valid and enforceable ordinances or regulations of the city;
   (C)   Practices fraud or deception upon the city or the council, which
actions may include any attempt to purposefully evade or avoid any of the
provisions of this chapter;
   (D)   Is adjudged bankrupt, has a receiver appointed for it, makes an
assignment for the benefit of creditors, or has a significant amount of its
property sold under execution or other legal process or seized by creditors; or
   (E)   Is in default in the making of payments under this chapter. (Ord.
1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.71 NOTICE, TIME TO CORRECT, AND DUE PROCESS REQUIRED IN REVOCATION.
   In the event the city believes there is a reasonable probability that
grounds for revocation of this franchise exist, the city, or the council
authorized by the city, shall notify the company in writing, setting forth the
nature and facts relating to the grounds for such revocation. Within 30 days
following such written notice, the company may furnish evidence reasonably
satisfactory to the council that corrective action has been taken or is being
actively or expeditiously pursued, or that the alleged violations did not
occur, or that the alleged violations were beyond the company's control. If the
company does not do so or if the council is not satisfied with the response,
the council shall establish a date, time, and place for the conduct of a public
hearing on the grounds for revocation, with the date of the public hearing no
sooner than 30 days or not later than 60 days following the expiration of such
30-day period. (Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.72 REMOVAL OF FACILITIES IN THE EVENT OF REVOCATION.
   In the event that the city ratifies the council's decision that this
franchise should be revoked, the council may require the company to continue
operating for a period not to exceed 12 months from the date of the council's
decision. In the event of the revocation, the company shall have 2 years from
the date on which it ceases operations to remove, at its own expense, all
portions of its system from all public ways within the city and to restore the
public ways to a condition reasonably satisfactory to the city. (Amend. Ord.
2574, passed 1-13-87)
CITY ACTION REQUIRED TO RATIFY CERTAIN COUNCIL DECISIONS
§ 114.75 DECISIONS REQUIRING CITY RATIFICATION.
   City action, by duly adopted ordinance, shall be required to ratify the
following council actions:
   (A)   Approvals of assignments or transfers of this franchise as specified
in § 114.60 (A);
   (B)   Decisions to renew or not to renew this franchise as provided in §§
114.65 through 114.69;
   (C)   Decisions to revoke this franchise as provided in §§ 114.70 through
114.72;
   (D)   Renewal or extension of the franchise. (Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75;
amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.76 COUNCIL'S DECISIONS PRESUMED WELL CONSIDERED.
   In its deliberations on the matters specified in § 114.75, the city shall
accept the decisions of the council as the considered judgment of an informed
and reasonable party, and, absent special showings to the contrary, shall act
to ratify the council's decisions.
(Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.77 TIMELINESS OF CITY RATIFICATION.
   (A)   After receiving council's decision on the matters specified in §
114.75, the city shall promptly review and act upon the matters, and shall, in
any event, act within 90 days of the council's decision.
   (B)   During the interval between the actions of the council and the city on
the matters, all parties shall be entitled to proceed in reliance on the
council's decision, except that neither the council nor the city nor the
company shall be held liable for any damages resulting from its reliance on the
decision during the interval, provided that the council shall have acted within
the time period specified in §§ 114.61 (B) or 114.67, as applicable, and that
the city shall have acted within the time period specified in division (A).
(Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS PROTECTED
§ 114.80 DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES PROHIBITED.
   The company shall not deny service or access, or otherwise discriminate
against its subscribers, users, or employees on the basis of race, color,
religion, national origin, or sex. The company shall strictly adhere to the
equal employment opportunity requirements of 47 USC, Section 544, or other
applicable federal or state laws. (Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574,
passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.81 CABLE TAPPING AND MONITORING PROHIBITED WITHOUT PERMISSION OF
SUBSCRIBER.
   (A)   In order to protect the privacy of the subscribers to the company's
system, the company shall comply with the requirements of 47 USC, Section 551,
and other applicable state and federal requirements.
   (B)   Neither the company nor the city nor the council shall tap and/or
monitor or arrange for the tapping and/or monitoring or permit, either
expressly or impliedly, any other person to tap and/or monitor any cable, line,
signal input device, or subscriber outlet or receiver for any purpose
whatsoever, without the express permission of the subscriber. Notwithstanding
the preceding sentences, the company shall be entitled to conduct system-wide
or individually addressed “sweeps” for the purpose of verifying system
integrity, controlling return-path transmissions, or billing for pay services.
(Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.82 SALE OF SUBSCRIBER LISTS PROHIBITED.
   The company shall not, without the specific authorization of the subscriber
(s) involved, sell, or otherwise make available to any person or group of
persons lists of the names and addresses of its subscribers, or any list which
identifies the viewing habits of any individual subscriber, except as the same
is necessary for the construction, marketing, and maintenance of the company's
facilities and services hereunder and the concomitant billing of subscribers
for the services, or as the same may be necessary to give leased access channel
users sufficient and pertinent information to make full use of the leased
access channel. (Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.83 CENSORSHIP PROHIBITED ON ACCESS CHANNELS.
   The company shall exercise no control over program content on any of the
access channels. (Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.84 LIABILITY FOR OBSCENITY, DEFAMATION, OR INVASION OF PRIVACY ON ACCESS
CHANNELS.
   Liability for obscenity, defamation, or invasion of privacy on any access
channels shall rest with the person or group of persons utilizing the access
channels. (Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
RESOLUTION OF DISPUTES
§ 114.85 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this subchapter to provide for the orderly resolution of
any controversy or dispute between the council, the city, and the company
arising out of the enforcement or interpretation of this chapter or any rule,
regulation, or procedure relating to cable communications matters. Fact
finding, mediation, and arbitration shall be the means of resolving such
controversies or disputes wherever possible. Neither of these methods, however,
shall be the first resort of the parties, but shall be undertaken only after a
reasonable time has been expended in good faith negotiation. If both parties
mutually agree, fact finding and/or mediation may be skipped. (Ord. 1907,
passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.86 FACT FINDING.
   Any controversy or dispute, upon the election of either the council, the
city, or the company, shall be submitted to an expert individual acceptable to
both parties for an investigation of the facts and a report thereof. The fact
finding shall be for the purpose of developing better information for the use
of both parties and shall not be binding. (Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend.
Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.87 MEDIATION; ARBITRATION.
   (A)   Any controversy or dispute, upon the election of either the council,
the city, or the company, shall be submitted to an expert individual,
acceptable to the parties, for the purpose of facilitating discussion and
receiving new perspectives on the issues and new proposals for compromise. The
mediation shall not be binding.
   (B)   Any controversy or dispute, upon the election of either the council,
the city or the company, may be submitted to arbitration in accordance with
guidelines established by the American Arbitration Association. Any decisions
reached through arbitration shall be binding on both parties, and shall be
subject to confirmation, vacation, modification, or correction in accordance
with Chapter 2711 of the Ohio Revised code. In addition, an award based upon a
mistake of law may be set aside by a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord.
1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.88 SELECTION PROCEDURES.
   In fact finding or mediation, the parties shall each present a maximum of 3
names for possible service as the expert. If there is no agreement on any of
the names, the American Arbitration Association shall select a person to
fulfill the function of expert. In arbitration, the parties shall select an
arbitrator according to the procedures of the American Arbitration Association.
(Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.89 FEES AND EXPENSES.
   The expense of fact finding and mediation, including the fees of experts,
shall be equally borne by the council, the city, and the company. In addition,
the cost of expert witnesses shall be borne by that party, but all other
expenses shall be equally borne by the council and the company. (Ord. 1907,
passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 114.90 POWERS OF COURT TO ENFORCE COMPLIANCE WITH FRANCHISE.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent any party hereto from
pursuing its full legal rights and enforcing compliance with the terms of this
franchise. (Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.91 NONENFORCEMENT BY CITY.
   The company shall not be relieved of its obligation to comply with the
provisions of this chapter by reason of any failure of the city or the council
to enforce prompt compliance, nor shall any inaction by the city or the council
be deemed to waive or void any provision of this chapter. (Ord. 1907, passed 5-
27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.92 COMPLIANCE WITH ALL APPLICABLE LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   During the term of this franchise, the company shall comply with all present
and future applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and any amendments thereto,
promulgated by any federal, state, or local authority of competent
jurisdiction, including but not limited to the laws, rules, and regulations of
the FCC and the city. (Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-
13-87)
§ 114.93 SUBSEQUENT ACTION BY STATE OR FEDERAL AGENCIES.
   Should this state, the FCC, or any other agency of competent jurisdiction
require the company to perform or cease to perform any act, compliance with
which requirement would be inconsistent with any provision of this chapter, the
company shall comply with the requirement and shall so notify the council. Any
mandatory modification of FCC franchise standards resulting from amendments by
the commission shall be incorporated into this chapter within one year of
adoption of the modification, or at the time of franchise renewal, whichever
occurs first.
(Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.94 DELEGATION OF FUNCTIONS.
   In accordance with the city charter, the city may delegate any of its
functions or responsibilities, pursuant to this chapter, to a board, commission
or officer, which designee shall have a right of appeal to the city council.
(Ord. 1907, passed 5-27-75; amend. Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.95 NOTICE.
   Whenever, under the terms of the franchise, a provision is made for notice
of any kind, it shall be sufficient if such notice is in writing, addressed to
the appropriate party at the current address and sent by registered or
certified mail with postage prepaid.
(Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.96 AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments to this franchise may be initiated by the council or the company
in accordance with 47 U.S.C., Section 545.
(Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
§ 114.97 FORCE MAJEURE.
   Prevention or delay of any performance under this franchise due to
circumstances beyond the control of the company or the cities, including
weather, acts of God, strikes, and similar unforeseen circumstances, but not
including economic hardship or inability to secure materials, shall not be
deemed to be noncompliance with or a violation of this franchise.
(Ord. 2574, passed 1-13-87)
CHAPTER 115: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
115.01   Definitions
115.02   Alarm permits
115.03   Automatic dialing devices
115.04   Equipment maintenance and inspection of alarm systems
115.05   Suspension, revocation, and appeals procedure for permits
115.06   Liability of city
115.07   Exemptions
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM PERMIT. A permit issued by the Chief of Police or Fire Chief to any
owner or other person in control of a building, property, or part thereof,
located in the city, to install and maintain an alarm system.
   ALARM PERMIT HOLDER. A person, organization, or company who has a permit
issued to him by the Chief of Police or Fire Chief.
(Ord. 2318. Passed 6-8-82.)
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any assembly of equipment and devices which signals so as to
be seen or heard outside the protected building or space the presence of fire,
smoke, robbery, burglary, vandalism, or unauthorized intrusion; includes the 9-
1-1 telephone system and equipment, however, it specifically excludes pay
telephones.
(Ord. 3242. Passed 5-27-03.)
   APPROPRIATE CHIEF. The Chief of Police or the Fire Chief.
   AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICE. A device which is interconnected to a telephone
line and is programmed to select a predetermined telephone number and transmit
by voice, message, or code signal an emergency message indicating a need for
emergency response.
(Ord. 2318. Passed 6-8-82.)
   FALSE ALARM. An alarm signal or message initiated and transmitted either
automatically or manually through an alarm system, to the city eliciting
response by police or fire when fire, smoke, robbery, burglary, vandalism, or
unauthorized intrusion does not, in fact, exist, but does not include an alarm
signal caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, or other catastrophic acts of God not
reasonably subject to control by the alarm manufacturer, installer, or alarm
permit holder. False alarms include 9-1-1 telephone calls. (Ord. 3242. Passed
5-27-03.)
   INTERCONNECTED ALARM SYSTEM. An alarm system which directly or indirectly,
automatically or manually, uses a telephone line to transmit an alarm or
message on activation of the alarm system.
   LOCAL ALARM SYSTEM. An alarm system that when activated only sounds a horn,
bell, buzzer, or other type of audible or visible alarm that is designed to be
audible or visible beyond the premises being served, but which does not result
in the transmission of a signal to any other location.
(Ord. 2318, passed 6-8-82)
§ 115.02 ALARM PERMITS.
   (A)   Any residence or building or part thereof located within the city may
be equipped with an alarm system for the purpose of detecting and signaling the
presence of a fire or unauthorized intrusion.
   (B)   Before an alarm system is installed in a residence or building, the
owner must apply for a permit from either the Chief of Police or the Fire
Chief. The appropriate Chief shall prescribe the form of the application and
request such information as is necessary to evaluate and act on the permit
application. The information contained in an alarm permit application shall be
securely maintained and restricted to inspection only by the Chief of Police,
Fire Chief, or their designated representative.
   (C)   Any person, organization, or business which currently has an alarm
system installed in their residence or place of business shall apply for an
alarm permit within 60 days of the effective date of this chapter.
   (D)   When there has occurred any material change in the information
previously submitted with respect to such alarm system, it shall be the duty of
the occupant of a building served by an alarm system within ten days after a
change in information previously submitted to the city to file an application
supplement containing accurate current information with respect to the data
required by the respective Chief.
(Ord. 2318, passed 6-8-82) Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.03 AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICES.
   (A)   The city may subscribe to one or more telephone lines for burglar
alarms, or for fire alarm purposes, or for similar purposes; and when any line
is designated as provided for above, persons may, on proper application and
compliance with applicable laws, be granted a permit to install a device or
devices which automatically select the designated telephone line for the
purpose of playing a recorded message or to otherwise report an intrusion or
other emergency. An annual interconnect fee shall be established by the City
Manager, in such amount as to reimburse the city for the cost of any telephone
lines dedicated to automatic dialing devices. Such fee shall be revised at the
beginning of every fiscal year to reflect the most recent cost experience.
   (B)   No person shall use or cause to be used, any telephone device or
telephone attachment that automatically selects any telephone line allocated by
the telephone company to the city or any of its departments or divisions,
except a telephone line which shall be specifically designated by the City
Manager for such purpose. Such designated telephone lines shall terminate at
the municipal communications center in the West Carrollton Civic Center.
   (C)   All automatic dialing devices shall be programmed to use the
designated telephone line within 30 days of notification of designation by the
City Manager; additionally the message format must be approved by the
appropriate Chief prior to interconnection.
(Ord. 2318, passed 6-8-82) Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.04 EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION OF ALARM SYSTEMS.
   All equipment used in installations for which a permit is required shall
meet the applicable standards of the Underwriters Laboratories of the United
States and of Canada, Factory Mutual, or the National Fire Protection
Association, or other recognized industry standard. Applicant may be required
to submit evidence to the appropriate Chief of the reliability and suitability
of the equipment.
(Ord. 2318, passed 6-8-82)
§ 115.05 SUSPENSION, REVOCATION, AND APPEALS PROCEDURE FOR PERMITS.
   (A)   Before a permit issued pursuant to this chapter may be suspended, or
revoked for any reason except as prescribed in § 115.99 (C), a hearing must be
held before the appropriate Chief. A notice setting forth the time, place, and
nature of the hearing shall be sent to the alarm permit holder no less than
seven days prior to the hearing. The hearing shall be held within 20 days
following the date of the notice.
   (B)   After the hearing, the appropriate Chief shall either dismiss the case
or shall forward a recommendation of revocation or suspension to the City
Manager. Within ten days after receiving the recommendation, the City Manager
shall approve or disapprove the recommendation and notify the permit holder
accordingly.
   (C)   Any decision made by the City Manager pursuant to this section may be
appealed by filing a written notice of appeal with the Clerk of Council within
five days of receipt of the City Manager's decision. Such appeal shall be heard
by the City Council within 30 days after the filing of the appeal and that body
may affirm, amend, or reverse the decision or take other action deemed
appropriate.
   (D)   At the end of the revocation or suspension period, the alarm permit
holder will be required, if the holder intends to continue using his alarm
system, to first refile an application and have it approved by the appropriate
Chief.
(Ord. 2318, passed 6-8-82)
§ 115.06 LIABILITY OF CITY.
   The issuance of any permits in conjunction with this chapter shall not
constitute acceptance by the city of any liability to maintain any equipment,
to answer alarms, or for anything in connection therewith.
(Ord. 2318, passed 6-8-82)
§ 115.07 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter are not applicable to home smoke
detectors not intended to be heard outside the dwelling unit, nor to local
alarm systems or audible alarms affixed to automobiles, boats, boat trailers,
and recreation vehicles or other similar motor vehicles.
   (B)   In the event of a conflict between the requirements of this chapter
and any other ordinances or regulations of the city or any other governmental
agency, the more stringent requirement shall be applicable and enforced.
(Ord. 2318, passed 6-8-82)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   No person shall operate an alarm system without first obtaining a
permit as required by this chapter, or after having a permit revoked or
suspended, and after exhausting the right of appeal, fail to disconnect the
alarm system. Violation of this section shall be a minor misdemeanor. Each day
of such unpermitted use shall constitute a separate violation.
   (B)   No more than three chargeable false alarms shall be conveyed from any
premises having an alarm permit during any 12-month period. An alarm will be
classified as false if the responding police or fire personnel see no evidence
of fire, smoke, robbery, burglary, vandalism, or unauthorized intrusion. If the
permit holder proves that the alarm was caused by an event not reasonably
foreseeable and which could not have been prevented by the proper adjustment or
presetting of the sensor threshold, the alarm will be designated a non-
chargeable false alarm. During any 12-month period no penalty shall be imposed
for the first, second, or third chargeable false alarms.
      (1)   If any alarm system or telephone system produces four false alarms
in any twelve-month period, a civil penalty as set forth in Section
37.22 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton will be assessed to the alarm user.
      (2)   If any alarm system or telephone system produces five false alarms
in any twelve-month period, a civil penalty as set forth in Section
37.22 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton will be assessed to the alarm user.
      (3)   If any alarm system or telephone system produces six false alarms
in any twelve-month period, a civil penalty as set forth in Section
37.22 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton will be assessed to the alarm user.
      (4)   If any alarm system or telephone system produces seven false alarms
in any twelve-month period, a civil penalty as set forth in Section
37.22 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton will be assessed to the alarm user.
      (5)   If any alarm system or telephone system produces eight or more
false alarms in any twelve-month period, a civil penalty as set forth in
Section
37.22 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton will be assessed to the alarm user for each occurrence.
   (C)   (1)   Following the fourth or subsequent officially chargeable false
alarms in any 12-month period, the Chief of Police or Fire Chief will review
the alarm holder’s permit and recommend to the City Manager, continuance of the
permit or revoking of the permit for up to a maximum of six months. The alarm
permit holder may appeal the City Manager’s decision to City Council as
provided for in §115.05. City Council’s decision shall be final.
      (2)   No permit holder shall fail to disconnect his alarm system on order
of the appropriate chief as set forth herein. Violation of this section shall
be a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   No alarm permit holder shall knowingly allow his alarm system to be
used by any person to create a false alarm as defined in Section 138.07.
Violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. In
addition to any other penalty prescribed by Section 130.99, the alarm permit
held by such permit holder may be suspended or revoked for up to one year.
(Ord. 3436. Passed 12-22-09.)
CHAPTER 116: TAX ABATEMENT
Section
116.01   General guidelines
116.02   Area characteristic guidelines
116.03   Procedural guidelines
§ 116.01 GENERAL GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Tax abatement may be used to attract new businesses and industries
where the total benefits to the citizens of the city are greater than the real
property taxes abated.
   (B)   Tax abatement bay be granted when, in the judgement of the Council, it
is determined that such incentive is necessary to attract businesses or
industry to the city, and that failure to grant the abatement would result in
business or industry locating elsewhere.
   (C)   Tax abatement may be used when it is necessary to retain existing
businesses or industry or help them expand. The amount of real property taxes
abated must be less than would be lost if the business or industry moved from
the city and, in the case of expansion, the taxes abated must be less than the
tax revenues to be gained by the expansion.
(Res. 11-91, passed 5-14-91)
§ 116.02 AREA CHARACTERISTIC GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Individual Community Reinvestment Areas (CRA) shall be relatively
compact and contain a minimum land area of approximately five acres.
   (B)   Community Reinvestment Areas shall already be served by public water,
sewer and other essential infrastructure, or be able to provide for these
services immediately.
   (C)   Community Reinvestment Areas shall be used primarily to encourage
development in manufacturing districts.
   (D)   Community Reinvestment Areas shall include only existing developed
residential areas in which maintenance and reconstruction are discouraged.
Vacant residential land shall not be included in Community Reinvestment Areas
except to encourage the infill of parcels in otherwise developed neighborhoods.
   (E)   Community Reinvestment Areas should not work to encourage the
continuation or expansion of non-conforming uses.
(Res. 11-91, passed 5-14-91)
§ 116.03 PROCEDURAL GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Survey made of housing in city. (R.C. § 3735.66)
   (B)   The city will continue to advise the applicable school board of
proposed tax abatement requests.
   (C)   Public hearing held on intent to establish or expand a CRA.
   (D)   Resolution passed by Council.
      (1)   Defining boundaries of new or expanded CRA. (R.C. § 3735.66)
      (2)   Determination that this area contains housing facilities or
structures of historical significance, and that new housing construction and
repair of existing facilities or structures are discourages. (R.C. § 3735.65
(B))
      (3)   Defines types of development activities eligible for abatement and
number of years. (R.C. § 3735.67)
      (4)   Designates a “housing officer” to administer the CRA. (R.C. §
3735.66)
      (5)   Sets date after which control may determine that no additional tax
abatement applications may be accepted.
   (E)   Resolution is published in newspaper of general circulation, one per
week for two weeks. (R.C. § 3735.66)
   (F)   Certified copy of resolution is forwarded to County Auditor within 10
days.
   (G)   Notice of creation of CRA mailed to all property owners within ten
days.
   (H)   Housing Council appointed for each CRA. Normally, the City Council
will serve as the Housing Council. (R.C. § 3735.69)
   (I)   Annual inspection of abated properties is made by housing officer and
findings reported to Housing Council. (R.C. § 3735.69)
   (J)   Annual reminder of location in the CRA is mailed to all property
owners.
(Res. 11-91, passed 5-14-91)
CHAPTER 117: MASSAGE SERVICES ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
117.01   Definitions
117.02   Permit required; prohibited conduct; exemptions
117.03   Permit application process
117.04   Issuance of permit; expiration and renewal
117.05   Facility requirements
117.06   Prohibitions
117.07   Transfer of permit; change of information
117.08   Inspections
117.09   Penalties; revocation of permit
117.10   Appeals; hearings
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   (A)   APPLICANT means a person who has applied for a permit to operate a
massage services establishment, or any individual who applies perform massages
at a massage establishment in the City of West Carrollton.
   (B)   LICENSED MASSAGE THERIPIST means any person who is licensed under
Chapter 4731 of the Ohio Revised Code to practice massage therapy in the State
of Ohio.
   (C)   MASSAGE means any method of exerting pressure on, stroking, kneading,
rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating, or stimulating the external soft tissue
of the body with the hands, or with the aid of any mechanical or electrical
apparatus or appliance in exchange for anything of value.
   (D)   MASSAGE SERVICES ESTABLISHMENT means a place of business or
establishment permitted under this section, and the City of West Carrollton
Zoning Code, where massage therapy services are provided.
   (E)   MASSEUR or MASSEUSE means any individual who performs massages at a
massage establishment.
   (F)   MASSAGE THERAPY means the treatment of disorders of the human body by
the manipulation of soft tissue through the systematic external application of
massage techniques including touch, stroking, friction, vibration, percussion,
kneading, stretching, compression and joint movements within normal physiologic
range of motion; and adjunctive thereto, the external application of water,
heat, cold, topical preparations, and mechanical devices.
   (G)   SEXUAL or GENITAL AREA means the genitalia pubic area, anus, perineum
of any person and the breasts of a female.
(Ord. 3630. Passed 3-27-18.)
§ 117.02 PERMIT REQUIRED; PROHIBITED CONDUCT; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   After the effective date of this revised chapter all licensed massage
therapists and massage service establishments operating in the City of West
Carrollton shall obtain a permit to operate on or before December 31st.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to offer or perform massage
therapy or massage services in the City of West Carrollton unless that person
is a licensed massage therapist with the State of Ohio.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a massage services
establishment in the City of West Carrollton unless both of the following
apply:
      (1)   The owner or manager is a licensed massage therapist in the State
of Ohio.
      (2)   Massage therapy and massage services provided in the massage
services establishment are performed exclusively by a licensed massage
therapist in the State of Ohio.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to employ a person to perform massage therapy or
massage services in a massage service establishment in the City of West
Carrollton unless that person is a licensed massage therapist in the State of
Ohio.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for that person to operate a massage services
establishment in the City of West Carrollton without obtaining a Zoning
Occupancy Certificate to operate a massage services establishment from the City
of West Carrollton Planning and Community Development Department.
   (F)   Prohibited Conduct. No person that is providing massage services in
the City of West Carrollton shall knowingly do any of the following at, upon or
within a massage services establishment or elsewhere:
      (1)   Place his or her hand upon, touch with any part of his or her body,
fondle in any manner, or massage the sexual or genital area of any other
person;
      (2)   Perform, offer, or agree to perform any act which would require the
touching of the sexual or genital area of any other person;
      (3)   Touch, offer, or agree to touch the sexual or genital area of any
other person with any mechanical or electrical apparatus or appliance;
      (4)   Wear unclean clothing, no clothing, transparent clothing, or
clothing that otherwise reveals the sexual or genital areas of the masseur or
masseuse;
      (5)   Uncover, or allow the sexual or genital area of any other person to
be uncovered while providing a massage;
      (6)   Perform, offer, or agree to perform a massage with or without
compensation to any individual less than eighteen years of age without parental
consent.
   (G)   Exceptions. The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to the
following:
      (1)   Hospitals, medical facilities and public health centers (all as
defined by Ohio Revised Code 3701.01);
      (2)   A person licensed or registered by the State of Ohio Medical Board
(other than a Massage Therapist) while performing his/her licensed or
registered profession;
      (3)   A licensed cosmetologist, registered barber, registered barber
apprentice, licensed chiropractor, licensed podiatrist, licensed nurse, or any
other licensed health professional while performing his/her licensed or
registered profession; and
      (4)   A person working under the direct supervision of individuals or
establishments mentioned in this subsection (G) while performing his/her
licensed profession.
      (5)   As used in this subsection (G) "licensed" means licensed,
certified, or registered to practice in the State of Ohio.
(Ord. 3630. Passed 3-27-18.)
§ 117.03 PERMIT APPLICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, or his/her designee, is responsible for granting,
denying, revoking, and renewing Massage Services Establishment permits. A
person who wishes to operate a massage services establishment must submit a
current valid Zoning Occupancy Certificate to the City of West CarroJlton Chief
of Police or his/her designee and an Application for Massage Services
Establishment. The Application for Massage Service Establishment shall be
accompanied by the following information:
      (1)   Full legal name and current residential address of the applicant
(s);
      (2)   The address of the proposed massage services establishment;
      (3)   The names of any persons who will perform massage therapy at the
massage services establishment and copies of all licenses of those persons;
      (4)   A list of other services to be offered at the massage services
establishment;
      (5)   The website of the massage services establishment, if applicable;
      (6)   All felony and misdemeanor convictions of the applicant excluding
traffic offenses;
      (7)   A copy of the license provided by the State Medical Board of Ohio
for the owner and/or manager and each person who will practice massage therapy
at the massage services establishment;
      (8)   A printed form signed by each and every owner of the real property
which is the proposed location of the massage services establishment, whereby
each owner certifies that he/ she understands and acknowledges that a massage
services establishment will be located on said parcel of real property, and;
      (9)   Any other information requested at the time of application.
   (B)   Each individual that performs Massage Services in the City shall be
required to obtain a permit from the Chief of Police or designee. Such permits
are nontransferable. Before any individual may be issued a permit, he or she
shall submit on a form to be provided by the City the following information;
      (1)   The individual’s name and a personal or business address where mail
may be delivered;
      (2)   The address where massage services will be performed; and .
      (3)   A copy of the license provided by the State Medical Board of Ohio.
      (4)   For renewals, a statement that the applicant has not violated any
provision of this Chapter.
   (C)   A permit granted pursuant to this section shall be subject to annual
renewal by the Chief of Police upon the written permit application of the
individual and a finding by the Chief of Police that the individual has not
committed any act during the existence of the previous permit period which
would be grounds to deny the initial permit application.
   (D)   Applications shall be submitted and approved before a massage services
establishment can be operated and massage services offered.
   (E)   Massage service establishments that were in operation prior to the
effective date of this section must submit an application not later than 90
days after the effective date of this section.
   (F)   Once an application is submitted, the applicant shall receive a
response in writing no later than 30 days after the submission.
   (G)   In the event that the application is denied, the applicant may submit
a new application.
   (H)   Fees for the application shall be listed in the City of West
Carrollton General Fee Schedule, Chapter 37 of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton.
(Ord. 3630. Passed 3-27-18.)
§ 117.04 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; EXPIRATION A AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Upon approval of an application, an applicant shall be provided with a
Massage Services Establishment permit to operate a massage service
establishment or a Massage Services provider permit (as the case may be).
   (B)   Each permit shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and address of the massage services
establishment where services will be performed;
      (2)   A unique identification number;
      (3)   A signature from an administrator; and
      (4)   The effective dates of the permit.
   (C)   Each permit shall be valid for a maximum of one year. Regardless of
the date issued all permits shall expire on December 31st of the year they were
issued.
   (D)   No later than 30 days before the expiration date of a permit to
operate a massage services establishment or provide massage services, the
permit holder shall submit a new application pursuant to Section
117.03 of this section.
   (E)   Upon approval of the application, the applicant shall be provided with
a new permit to operate a massage services establishment.
   (F)   Said permit must be conspicuously displayed and visible upon entering
the massage services establishment.
(Ord. 3630. Passed 3-27-18.)
§ 117.05 FACILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A permit issued under Section
117.04 of this section must be displayed in a conspicuous location within the
massage services establishment.
   (B)   All table and surfaces in the massage services establishment shall be
clean and disinfected.
   (C)   Clean linen, towels, and other materials used in connection with
provided massage therapy services shall be stored in a closed cabinet.
   (D)   The permit holder shall comply with any other requirement for
operation as a business that is set forth in the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton.
(Ord. 3630. Passed 3-27-18.)
§ 117.06 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No individual shall advertise or offer massage services, massage
therapy, relaxation massage, or a related service unless that individual is a
state-licensed massage therapist and holds a valid permit issued under Section
 117.04 of this Chapter.
   (B)   No individual shall advertise massage services or a related service
using sexual or provocative words or images. No individual shall advertise
massage services or a related service with the suggestion or promise of a
sexual service or activity.
   (C)   No person who has been issued a permit to operate a massage services
establishment shall employ any individual under the age of 18.
(Ord. 3630. Passed 3-27-18.)
§ 117.07 TRANSFER of PERMIT; CHANGE OF INFORMATION.
   (A)   An individual may transfer a permit to operate a massage services
establishment to another individual by submitting a request in writing to the
City of West Carrollton; a fee may be assessed for the transfer of permit as
listed in the City of West Carrollton General Fee Schedule, Chapter 37 of the
City of West Carrollton Codified Ordinances.
   (B)   The City of West Carrollton shall respond within 10 days of receipt of
the transfer request. If the transfer of permit is approved, then a new permit
shall be issued.
   (C)   The expiration date of the permit shall not be extended in the event
that the permit is transferred.
   (D)   In the event that information submitted as part of the application
process changes, the permit holder shall notify the City of West Carrollton
within 10 days of such a change.
   (E)   Failure to update information in a timely manner may result in a
suspension or revocation of a permit and a first-degree misdemeanor. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed each day during on which or which a violation
on noncompliance occurs or continues.
(Ord. 3630. Passed 3-27-18.)
§ 117.08 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Any of the following individuals may conduct inspections to determine
compliance with this Chapter and other applicable state and local laws.
      (1)   A police officer;
      (2)   The Montgomery County Health Commissioner or designee;
      (3)   A building inspector or Code Enforcement Officer appointed by the
City of West Carrollton;
      (4)   Any other person authorized by the City of West Carrollton to
conduct inspections of a massage services establishment; or
      (5)   A representative of the State Medical Board of Ohio.
   (B)   Inspections may be conducted at any time.
   (C)   Inspections shall be conducted at least once per year to determine
compliance with this Chapter.
   (D)   Permit holders shall be given 10 days from the date of inspection to
correct any violations of this Chapter. Permit holders shall immediately
correct any issues found to be out of compliance with Section
117.05 of this Chapter.
(Ord. 3630. Passed 3-27-18.)
§ 117.09 PENALTIES; REVOCATION of PERMIT.
   (A)   Any individual who advertises, offers or performs massage therapy or
massage services in violation of this Chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during on
which or which a violation of non-compliance occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any individual who holds a permit under Section
117.04 of this Chapter who violates any provision of this Chapter is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during on which or
which a violation of non-compliance occurs or continues.
   (C)   In addition to a fine, the following actions may be taken against an
individual who holds a permit under Section
 117.04 of this Chapter and violates any provision of this section:
      (1)   An additional fine may be assessed;
      (2)   A permit to operate a massage services establishment may be
suspended for up to 90 days; and
      (3)   After a third offense, a permit to operate a massage services
establishment may be revoked.
(Ord. 3630. Passed 3-27-18.)
§ 117.10 APPEALS; HEARINGS.
   (A)   Appeals.
      (1)   Any individual may appeal the denial or revocation of a permit to
operate a massage service establishment or provide massage services.
      (2)   Any individual who holds a permit to operate a massage services
establishment may appeal the findings of an inspection conducted under Section
117.08 of this Chapter.
      (3)   Any individual may appeal a penalty assessed under Section
117.09 of this Chapter.
   (B)   Hearings.
      (1)   If an applicant has been denied a permit to operate a massage
services establishment, or provide massage services, failed an inspection, or
received a penalty under Section
117.09, the applicant or permitee shall, within 3 business days, have the right
to appeal to City Council from such denial, revocation, or suspension. Notice
of appeal shall be filed in writing with the Chief of Police who shall fix the
time and place for the hearing at the next meeting of City Council but not
later than 15 days thereafter. The Chief shall notify the Clerk of Council of
the time and place of such hearing. Four members of Council shall constitute a
quorum to hear such appeal. The appellant may appear and be heard in person or
by counsel. If, after the hearing, a majority of the members of Council present
at such a meeting declare in favor of the appellant, such permit shall be
forthwith issued or fully reinstated, as the case may be.
      (2)   If the majority of the members of City Council declare in
opposition of the appellant, then the appellant may appeal such order to the
County Court of Common Pleas. The appeal shall be in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 2506.
(Ord. 3630. Passed 3-27-18.)
CHAPTER 118: COMPETITIVE VIDEO SERVICE AUTHORIZATIONS
Section
118.01   Definitions
118.02   VSP Fee, percentage and audit
118.03   VSP Fee notice provision
118.04   MVCC Management authorization
118.05   MVCC Management authorization
118.06   VSP access provision
118.07   Access programming requirement
118.08   Fee payment requirements
118.09   PEG origination point
118.10   Notice requirement
118.11   Application to incumbent cable providers
118.12   Customer service standards
118.99   Penalty
§ 118.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   (A)   “Incumbent Cable Provider” means any person who on the effective date
of this Section is the holder of a cable franchise agreement with the City as
granted pursuant to requirements of 47 U.S.C. 541.
   (B)   “Miami Valley Communications Council or MVCC” means the Miami Valley
Communications Council which currently represents its eight member cities of
Centerville, Germantown, Kettering, Miamisburg, Moraine, Oakwood, Springboro,
and West Carrollton. MVCC is governed by a policy making body consisting of
delegates representing the eight member cities. MVCC additionally maintains
agreements with eighteen other Miami Valley political subdivisions who
participate as affiliate members. MVCC is managed by an appointed Executive
Director and his/her staff.
   (C)   “PEG” means the Activities or Actions performed for the benefit of
public, educational and government video programming by the City or MVCC.
   (D)   “Video Service” means the service defined in R.C. Section 1332.21(J).
   (E)   “Video Service Authorization” or “VSA” means the authorization granted
to a video service provider in accordance with the requirements of R.C.
Sections 1332.21 to 1332.34 et seq.
   (F)   “Video Service Provider Fee” or “VSP Fee” means the fee paid by a VSP
in accordance with the requirements of R.C. Section 1332.32.
   (G)   “Video Service Provider or VSP” means a person, firm or corporation
granted a video service authorization under R.C. Sections 1332.21 to 1332.34 et
seq.
(Ord. 3358. Passed 11-13-07.)
§ 118.02 VSP FEE, PERCENTAGE AND AUDIT.
   (A)   Not sooner than forty-five nor later than sixty days after the end of
each calendar quarter, a video service provider shall pay a video service
provider fee to the City. The fee shall be calculated quarterly by determining
the provider’s gross revenue for the preceding calendar quarter as described in
division (B) of this section and multiplying the result by the percentage
specified in division (C)(1) or (2) of this section.
   (B)   Gross revenue shall be computed in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles.
      (1)   Gross revenue shall consist of all of the following revenue for the
calendar quarter that is collected by the provider for video service from all
its subscribers having service addresses within the City:
         (a)   Recurring monthly charges for video service;
         (b)   Event-based charges for video service, including, but not
limited to, pay-per-view and video-on-demand charges;
         (c)   Charges for rental of set top boxes and other video service
equipment;
         (d)   Service charges related to the provision of video service,
including, but not limited to, activation, installation and repair;
         (e)   Administrative charges related to the provision of video
service, including, but not limited to, service order and service termination
charges.
         (f)   Advertising revenues. For these purposes, “advertising revenue”
means the net revenue received by the video service provider for advertising on
its subscription-based video service within the City. If such revenue is
derived under a regional or national compensation contract or arrangement
between the video service provider and one or more advertisers or advertising
representatives, the amount of revenue derived for the City shall be determined
by multiplying the total net revenue received by the video service provider
under the contract or arrangement by the percentage resulting from dividing the
number of subscribers in the City by the total number of regional or national
subscribers that potentially receive the advertising under the contract or
arrangement.
      (2)   Gross revenue shall not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any taxes, fees, or assessments that are collected by the video
service provider from video service subscribers for pass- through to any
federal, state, or local government agency, including the video service
provider fee authorized under this section, the fee authorized under division
(F) of Section 1332.30 of the Revised Code, and the federal communication
commission user fee;
         (b)   Uncollectible charges, except that uncollectible charges, all or
part of which are written off as bad debt but subsequently collected, less the
expenses of their collection shall be included in gross revenue in the quarter
collected;
         (c)   Late payment charges;
         (d)   Maintenance charges;
         (e)   Charges for services other than video service, reasonably
identifiable on books or records the video service provider keeps in the
regular course of business or by other reasonable means, that are aggregated or
bundled with amounts billed to video service subscribers, including, but not
limited to, any revenue received by a video service provider or its affiliates
for telecommunications service, information service, or the provision of
directory or internet advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner
advertising, and electronic publishing;
         (f)   Reimbursement by programmers of marketing costs actually
incurred by the video service provider;
         (g)   Any revenue not expressly enumerated in division (B)(1) of this
section.
   (C)   (1)   If in a calendar quarter a franchise fee is payable by a
provider under a franchise in effect in the City, the percentage of gross
revenue payable in that calendar quarter by the video service provider to the
City shall be the same percentage of gross revenue payable in that calendar
quarter pursuant to that franchise, not to exceed five percent.
      (2)   Otherwise, the percentage shall be five (5) percent of a video
service provider’s gross revenues, as calculated in accordance with this
chapter.
   (D)   A video service provider that pays a video service provider fee
pursuant to this section may identify and collect the amount of that fee as a
separate line item on the regular bill of each of its video service subscribers
that has a service address within any portion of the City.
   (E)   (1)   At its sole expense and not more often than once per calendar
year, the City or its designee may conduct an audit for the purpose of
verifying the accuracy of a video service provider fees it paid to City in the
audit period. For the purpose of the audit, the video service provider shall
make available for inspection, at the location where such records are kept in
the normal course of business, those records pertaining to its gross revenue as
defined in division (B) of Section
118.02 of the West Carrollton Ordinances.
      (2)   A video service provider shall pay any amounts found to have been
underpaid in the audit within thirty days after notice and shall include
interest on the underpayments. However, payment need not be made in that
thirty-day period if the video service provider brings an action under division
(3) of this section.
      (3)   An action by the City or by the video service provider to dispute
the amount of video service provider fee due based on the audit results may be
brought in a court of competent jurisdiction not later than two years following
the end of the quarter to which the disputed amount relates.
(Ord. 3358. Passed 11-13-07.)
§ 118.03 VSP FEE NOTICE PROVISION.
   Upon receipt of notice from a VSP that it will begin providing Video Service
in the City pursuant to a state-issued video service authorization, the City
Manager or his/her designee is authorized and directed to provide such VSP with
notice of the VSP Fee as determined by this Council in Section
118.02 which notice shall be delivered in a manner that provides for proof of
timely delivery.
(Ord. 3358. Passed 11-13-07.)
§ 118.04 MVCC MANAGEMENT AUTHORIZATION.
   The City authorizes the Community Programming Board (“MVCC”) to manage and
direct the City’s cable franchise management, public, educational, and
government access programming and franchise fee collection activities and
further directs MVCC to manage and direct the City’s VSA public, educational,
and government access programming and VSP Fee collection activities as may be
necessary under R.C. Sections 1332.21 through 1332.34 et seq., all until such
time as the City may terminate or revoke such grant of authority.
(Ord. 3358. Passed 11-13-07.)
§ 118.05 MVCC MANAGEMENT AUTHORIZATION.
   The MVCC shall coordinate regulatory efforts for the City and provide
expertise on other matters regarding cable franchises, cable service providers,
VSAs, VSPs, and other electronic media. Additional responsibilities shall
include the creation and promotion of the community media center and PEG access
channels, the establishment and review of programming policies, resolution of
policy disputes, and questions of equal treatment for access users, and fiscal
controls. If matters of contract interpretation arise concerning community
programming, the MVCC shall be consulted.
(Ord. 3358. Passed 11-13-07.)
§ 118.06 VSP ACCESS PROVISION.
   Upon receipt of notice from a VSP that it will begin providing Video Service
in the City pursuant to a VSA, the City Manager or his/her designee is
authorized and directed to provide such VSP with notice that the VSP shall be
required to provide the same number of PEG channels in the City under the same
service tier conditions and subject to the same channel reclamation conditions
as may be proscribed by R. C. Section 1332.30(A)(1)(a-b) for the Incumbent
Cable Provider with the most recent obligation in the City, which notice shall
be delivered in a manner that provides for proof of timely delivery and shall
state the appropriate number of PEG channels and service tiers required to be
provided by the VSP within the City within one hundred and twenty (120) days
after delivery of such notice.
(Ord. 3358. Passed 11-13-07.)
§ 118.07 ACCESS PROGRAMMING REQUIREMENT.
   In accordance with the requirements of R.C. Section 1332.30(A)(1)(a) when
more than three (3) PEG access channels are provided to the City by an
Incumbent Cable Provider or VSP, such additional channel shall be programmed by
the City with at least forty (40) hours of non-character generated content per
week with at least sixty percent (60%) of the programming being non-repeat and
locally produced. For the purposes of this section “non-repeat and locally
produced” shall mean, the first three (3) playbacks of programming produced or
provided by any local resident, the MVCC or its affiliates, or any local public
or private agency that provides services to residents of the greater Dayton
metro area, or any transmission of a meeting or proceeding of any local, state,
or federal governmental entity.
(Ord. 3358. Passed 11-13-07.)
§ 118.08 FEE PAYMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Any VSP Fee or Community Service Fee Payments required to be paid to the
City by a VSP shall be made quarterly and be remitted directly to the Community
Programming Board via a negotiable instrument made payable to the City of West
Carrollton, Miami Valley Communications Council, 1195 Alex Bell Road,
Centerville, Ohio 45459, not later than sixty (60) days after the end of a
calendar quarter.
(Ord. 3358. Passed 11-13-07.)
§ 118.09 PEG ORIGINATION POINT.
   The PEG programming origination point of the City for the delivery of VSP
access services shall be located at the MVCC office location - 1195 Alex Bell
Road, Centerville, Ohio 45459.
(Ord. 3358. Passed 11-13-07.)
§ 118.10 NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   Any notice to the City that is required of a VSP in accordance with R.C.
Sections 1332.21 through 1332.34 shall be provided in written form to both the
City Manager and the Executive Director of the MVCC either by certified mail,
express mail or upon personal delivery, all evidenced by a return receipt.
(Ord. 3358. Passed 11-13-07.)
§ 118.11 APPLICATION TO INCUMBENT CABLE PROVIDERS.
   Nothing in this section shall apply to incumbent cable providers until they
are granted a Video Service Authorization in accordance with R.C. 1332.21 -
1332.34 et seq.
(Ord. 3358. Passed 11-13-07.)
§ 118.12 CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS.
   (A)   When requested to do so, a video service provider shall assist the
City in addressing video service subscriber complaints, in a manner consistent
with the provider’s complaint handling process.
   (B)   A video service provider shall meet all of the following customer
service standards:
      (1)   The provider shall restore video service within seventy-two hours
after a subscriber reports a service interruption or other problem if the cause
was not a natural disaster.
      (2)   Upon a report by a subscriber of a service interruption and if the
interruption is caused by the video service provider and lasts for more than
four hours in a given day, the provider shall give the subscriber a credit in
the amount of the cost of each such day’s video service as would be billed to
the subscriber.
      (3)   Upon a report by a subscriber of a service interruption and if the
interruption is not caused by the video service provider and lasts for more
than twenty-four consecutive hours, the provider shall give the subscriber, for
each hour of service interruption, a credit in the amount of the cost of per
hour video service as would be billed to the subscriber.
      (4)   The provider shall give a subscriber at least thirty days’ advance,
written notice before removing a channel from the provider’s video service, but
no such notice is required if the provider must remove the channel because of
circumstances beyond its control.
      (5)   The provider shall give a subscriber at least ten days’ advance,
written notice of a disconnection of all or part of the subscriber’s video
service, except if the disconnection has been requested by the subscriber, is
necessary to prevent theft of video service, or is necessary to reduce or
prevent signal leakage as described in 47 C.F.R. 76.611.
      (6)   The provider shall not disconnect all or part of a subscriber’s
video service for failure of the subscriber to pay its video service bill,
until the bill is at least forty-five days past due.
      (7)   The provider shall give a subscriber at least thirty days’ advance,
written notice before instituting an increase in video service rates.
(Ord. 3358. Passed 11-13-07.)
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree and shall be fined not more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned not more than sixty days or both. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues. (Ord. 3358. Passed 11-13-07.)
CHAPTER 119: CULTIVATING, PROCESSING OR DISPENSING MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROHIBITED
Section
119.01   Definitions.
119.02   Cultivating, processing or dispensing medical marijuana prohibited.
119.99   Penalty.
CROSS REFERENCES
Drug paraphernalia - see GEN. OFF. Ch. 141
§ 119.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   (A)   “Marijuana” means marijuana as defined in Section 3719.01 of the Ohio
Revised Code.
   (B)   “Medical marijuana” means marijuana that is cultivated, processed,
dispensed, tested, possessed or used for a medical purpose.
(Ord. 3617. Passed 10-24-17.)
§ 119.02 CULTIVATING, PROCESSING OR DISPENSING MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROHIBITED.
   No person shall cultivate, process, dispense, or sell medical marijuana. The
cultivation, processing or retail dispensing of medical marijuana, even under a
license issued under Chapter 3796 of the Ohio Revised Code, is prohibited
within the City of West Carrollton. (Ord. 3617. Passed 10-24-17.)
§ 119.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any section of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree. Each day that the person continues to violate this chapter
shall constitute a separate and complete offense.
(Ord. 3617. Passed 10-24-17.)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
   
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
131.   ADMINISTRATION AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
   
132.   GAMBLING OFFENSES
   
133.   HABITATION AND PROPERTY OFFENSES
   
134.   HEALTH, SAFETY AND SANITATION
   
135.   JUSTICE AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
   
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
   
137.   PUBLIC MORALITY
   
138.   PUBLIC ORDER
   
139.   WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES
   
140.   (RESERVED)
   
141.   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA REGULATIONS
   
142.   MINOR'S CURFEW
   
143.   PANHANDLING
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
130.01   Definitions
130.02   Offenses; classifications
130.03   Offenses; defined
130.04   Offenses; rule of construction
130.05   Offenses; statute of limitations
130.06   Requirements for criminal liability
130.07   Offenses; culpable mental states
130.08   Offenses; organizations
130.09   Offenses; organizations; officers, agents, employees
130.10   Offenses; repeat offender
130.11   Offenses; penalty; considerations
130.12   Attempt
130.13   Complicity
130.14   Offenses; penalty; organizations
130.15   Names of persons damaging real property by operation of vehicle to be
provided to owner
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   CONTRABAND. Any property that is illegal for a person to acquire or possess
under a statute, ordinance, or rule, or that a trier of fact lawfully
determines to be illegal to possess by reason of the property’s involvement in
an offense. The term includes but is not limited to all of the following:
      (1)   Any controlled substance, as defined in R.C. § 3719.01, or any
device or paraphernalia related thereto;
      (2)   Any unlawful gambling device or paraphernalia;
      (3)   Any dangerous ordnance or obscene material.
   DANGEROUS OFFENDER. A person who has committed an offense, whose history,
character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will be a
danger to others, and whose conduct has been characterized by a pattern of
repetitive, compulsive or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences.
   DEADLY FORCE. Any force that carries a substantial risk that it will
proximately result in the death of any person.
   FORCE. Any violence, compulsion, or constraint physically exerted by any
means upon or against a person or thing.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any of the following:
      (1)   A Sheriff, deputy sheriff, constable, police officer of a township
or joint police district, Marshal, deputy marshal, municipal police officer,
member of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under
R.C. § 3735.31(D) or state highway patrol trooper.
      (2)   An officer, agent, or employee of the state or any of its agencies,
instrumentalities, or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute, a duty to
conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and the
authority to arrest violators is conferred, within the limits of such statutory
duty and authority.
      (3)   The Mayor, in a capacity as chief conservator of the peace within
the municipality.
      (4)   A member of an auxiliary police force organized by the county,
township, or municipal law enforcement authorities, within the scope of the
member’s appointment or commission.
      (5)   A person lawfully called pursuant to R.C. § 311.07 to aid a sheriff
in keeping the peace, for the purposes and during the time when the person is
called.
      (6)   A person appointed by a Mayor pursuant to R.C. § 737.10 as a
special patrolling officer during a riot or emergency, for the purposes and
during the time when the person is appointed.
      (7)   A member of the organized militia of this state or the armed forces
of the United States, lawfully called to duty to aid civil authorities in
keeping the peace or protect against domestic violence.
      (8)   A prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, secret
service officer, or municipal prosecutor.
      (9)   A veterans’ home police officer appointed under R.C. § 5907.02.
      (10)   A member of a police force employed by a regional transit
authority under R.C. § 306.35(Y).
      (11)   A special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C. §
4582.04 or 4582.28.
      (12)   The House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms if the House of
Representatives Sergeant at Arms has arrest authority pursuant to R.C. §
101.311(E)(1) and an Assistant House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms.
      (13)   The Senate Sergeant at Arms and an Assistant Senate Sergeant at
Arms;
      (14)   A special police officer employed by a municipal corporation at a
municipal airport, or other municipal air navigation facility, that has
scheduled operations, as defined in 14 C.F.R. § 119.3, as amended, and that is
required to be under a security program and is governed by aviation security
rules of the Transportation Security Administration of the United States
Department of Transportation as provided in 49 C.F.R. parts 1542 and 1544, as
amended.
   NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF INSANITY. A person is “not guilty by reason of
insanity” relative to a charge of an offense only if the person proves, in the
manner specified in R.C. § 2901.05, that at the time of the commission of the
offense, he or she did not know, as a result of a severe mental disease or
defect, the wrongfulness of his or her acts.
   OFFENSE OF VIOLENCE.
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.11,
2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.15, 2903.18, 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, 2905.01,
2905.02, 2905.11, 2905.32, 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.05, 2909.02, 2909.03,
2909.24, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2917.01, 2917.02, 2917.03, 2917.31,
2917.321, 2919.25, 2921.03, 2921.04, 2921.34, or 2923.161, of division (A)(1)
of R.C. § 2903.34, of division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of R.C. § 2911.12, or
of division (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3) or (B)(4) of R.C. § 2919.22, or felonious
sexual penetration in violation of former R.C. § 2907.12;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States, substantially equivalent to
any section, division or offense listed in division (1) of this definition;
      (3)   An offense, other than a traffic offense, under an existing or
former municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or of the United
States, committed purposely or knowingly, and involving physical harm to
persons or a risk of serious physical harm to persons;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition;
      (5)   A violation of division (C) of R.C. § 959.131.
   PERSON.
      (1)   (a)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, as used in any
section contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, the term includes all of the following:
            1.   An individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association.
            2.   An unborn human who is viable.
         (b)   As used in any section contained in Title XIII of this code that
does not set forth a criminal offense, the term includes an individual,
corporation, business trust, estate, partnership and association.
         (c)   As used in division (1)(a)2. of this definition, “unborn human”
means an individual organism of the species Homo sapiens from fertilization
until live birth. “Viable” means the stage of development of a human fetus at
which there is a realistic probability of maintaining and nourishing of a life
outside the womb with or without temporary artificial life-sustaining support.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (1)(a) of this definition, in no case
shall the portion of the definition of the term “person” that is set forth in
division (1)(a)2. of this definition be applied or construed in any section
contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal offense in any
of the following manners:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (2)(a) of this
definition, in a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as
prohibiting any pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion
with the consent of the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman
implied by law in a medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise
authorized by law to consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant
woman. An abortion that violates the conditions described in the immediately
preceding sentence may be punished as a violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02,
2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13,
2903.14, 2903.21 or 2903.22, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, as applicable. An abortion that does not violate the conditions
described in the second immediately preceding sentence but that does violate
R.C. § 2919.12, 2919.13(B), 2919.15, 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of
such section, as applicable. Consent is sufficient under this division if it is
of the type otherwise adequate to permit medical treatment to the pregnant
woman, even if it does not comply with R.C. § 2919.12.
         (b)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
            1.   Her delivery of a stillborn baby;
            2.   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying;
            3.   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human;
            4.   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human;
            5.   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any injury, illness, or other physiological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any tangible or intangible damage to property
that, in any degree, results in loss to its value or interferes with its use or
enjoyment. The term does not include wear and tear occasioned by normal use.
   PRIVILEGE. An immunity, license, or right conferred by law, or bestowed by
express or implied grant, or arising out of status, position, office, or
relationship, or growing out of necessity.
   PROPERTY.
      (1)   Any property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, and any
interest or license in that property. The term includes but is not limited to
cable television service, other telecommunications service, telecommunications
devices, information service, computers, data, computer software, financial
instruments associated with computers, other documents associated with
computers, or copies of the documents, whether in machine or human-readable
form, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents, and property protected by
a trademark, copyright or patent. “Financial instruments associated with
computers” include but are not limited to checks, drafts, warrants, money
orders, notes of indebtedness, certificates of deposit, letters of credit,
bills of credit or debit cards, financial transaction authorization mechanisms,
marketable securities, or any computer system representations of any of them.
      (2)   As used in this definition, “trade secret” has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 1333.61, and “telecommunications service” and “information service”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (3)   As used in this definition and in the definition of “contraband” in
this section, “cable television service”, “computer”, “computer network”,
“computer software”, “computer system”, “data”, and “telecommunications device”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   REPEAT OFFENDER. A person who has a history of persistent criminal activity
and whose character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will
commit another offense. It is prima facie evidence that a person is a repeat
offender if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Having been convicted of one or more offenses of violence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent offense of
violence;
      (2)   Having been convicted of one or more sexually oriented offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2950.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent sexually oriented
offense;
      (3)   Having been convicted of one or more theft offenses, as defined in
R.C. § 2913.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for one or more
of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent theft offense;
      (4)   Having been convicted of one or more felony drug abuse offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2925.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent felony drug abuse
offense;
      (5)   Having been convicted of two or more felonies, and having been
imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such offense, he or she commits a
subsequent offense;
      (6)   Having been convicted of three or more offenses of any type or
degree other than traffic offenses, alcoholic intoxication offenses, or minor
misdemeanors, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such
offense, he or she commits a subsequent offense.
   RISK. A significant possibility, as contrasted with a remote possibility,
that a certain result may occur or that certain circumstances may exist.
   SCHOOL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL ACTIVITY. Any activity held under the auspices of a board of
education of a city, local, exempted village, joint vocational, or cooperative
education school district; a governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; a governing board of an educational
service center; or the governing body of a nonpublic school for which the
Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum standards under R.C. §
3301.07.
   SCHOOL BUILDING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SCHOOL PREMISES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL SAFETY ZONE. Consists of a school, school building, school premises,
school activity, and school bus.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any mental illness or condition of such gravity as would normally
require hospitalization or prolonged psychiatric treatment;
      (2)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
      (3)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent incapacity, whether
partial or total, or that involves some temporary, substantial incapacity;
      (4)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent disfigurement, or
that involves some temporary, serious disfigurement;
      (5)   Any physical harm that involves acute pain of such duration as to
result in substantial suffering, or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any physical harm to property that does
either of the following:
      (1)   Results in substantial loss to the value of the property, or
requires a substantial amount of time, effort, or money to repair or replace;
      (2)   Temporarily prevents the use or enjoyment of the property, or
substantially interferes with its use or enjoyment for an extended period of
time.
   SUBSTANTIAL RISK. A strong possibility, as contrasted with a remote or
significant possibility, that a certain result may occur or that certain
circumstances may exist.
(R.C. §§ 2901.01, 2935.36(E))
§ 130.02 OFFENSES; CLASSIFICATIONS.
   As used in the Codified Ordinances:
   (A)   Offenses include misdemeanors of the first, second, third and fourth
degree, minor misdemeanors and offenses not specifically classified.
   (B)   Regardless of the penalty that may be imposed, any offense
specifically classified as a misdemeanor is a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any offense not specifically classified is a misdemeanor if
imprisonment for not more than one year may be imposed as a penalty.
   (D)   Any offense not specifically classified is a minor misdemeanor if the
only penalty that may be imposed is one of the following:
      (1)   For an offense committed prior to January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00);
      (2)   For an offense committed on or after January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00), community service under division
(D) of Ohio R.C. 2929.27, or a financial sanction other than a fine under Ohio
R.C. 2929.28. (ORC 2901.02)
§ 130.03 OFFENSES; DEFINED.
   (A)   No conduct constitutes a criminal offense against the city unless it
is defined as an offense in the criminal code of the city.
   (B)   An offense is defined when one or more sections of the code state a
positive prohibition or enjoin a specific duty, and provide a penalty for
violation of the prohibition or failure to meet the duty. (R.C. § 2901.03)
(Ord. 1839, passed 4-23-74)
§ 130.04 OFFENSES; RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (C) hereof, sections of the
Codified Ordinances defining offenses or penalties shall be strictly construed
against the Municipality and liberally construed in favor of the accused.
   (B)   Rules of criminal procedure and sections of the Ohio Revised Code
providing for criminal procedure shall be construed so as to effect the fair,
impartial, speedy and sure administration of justice.
   (C)   Any provision of a section of the Codified Ordinances that refers to a
previous conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of a section of the
Codified Ordinances or Ohio Revised Code or of a division of a section of the
Codified Ordinances or Ohio Revised Code shall be construed to also refer to a
previous conviction of or plea of guilty to a substantially equivalent offense
under an existing or former law of this State, another state, or the United
States or under an existing or former municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Any provision of the Codified Ordinances that refers to a section, or
to a division of a section, of the Codified Ordinances that defines or
specifies a criminal offense shall be construed to also refer to an existing or
former law of this State, another state, or the United States, to an existing
or former municipal ordinance, or to an existing or former division of any such
existing or former law or ordinance that defines or specifies, or that defined
or specified, a substantially equivalent offense.
(ORC 2901.04)
§ 130.05 OFFENSES; STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5)
of this section or as otherwise provided in this section, a prosecution shall
be barred unless it is commenced within the following periods after an offense
is committed:
         (a)   For a felony, six years;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor other than a minor misdemeanor, two years;
         (c)   For a minor misdemeanor, six months.
      (2)   There is no period of limitation for the prosecution of a violation
of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 or for the prosecution of a conspiracy to
commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in committing a violation of R.C. §
2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (B) through (J) of this
section, a prosecution of any of the following offenses shall be barred unless
it is commenced within 20 years after the offense is committed:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.03, 2903.04, 2905.01, 2905.32,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.21, 2909.02, 2909.22, 2909.23, 2909.24, 2909.26,
2909.27, 2909.28, 2909.29, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, or 2917.02, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.11 or 2903.12 if the victim is a peace officer, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 that is a felony, or a violation of former R.C. §
2907.12.
         (b)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing a violation set forth in division (A)(3)(a) of this section.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (D) to (L) of this
section, a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 or a
conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in committing a
violation of either section shall be barred unless it is commenced within 25
years after the offense is committed.
      (5)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (A)(5)(b) and (E)
to (I) of this section, a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2907.13 shall be
barred unless it is commenced within five years after the offense is committed.
         (b)   Prosecution that would otherwise be barred under division (A)(5)
(a) of this section may be commenced within five years after the date of the
discovery of the offense by either an aggrieved person or the aggrieved
person’s legal representative who is not a party to the offense.
         (c)   As used in division (A)(5)(b) of this section, “aggrieved
person” includes any of the following individuals with regard to a violation of
R.C. § 2907.13:
            1.   A patient who was the victim of the violation;
            2.   The spouse or surviving spouse of a patient who was the victim
of the violation;
            3.   Any child born as a result of the violation.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) of this section,
if the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this
section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for an offense of which an
element is fraud or breach of fiduciary duty within one year after discovery of
the offense either by an aggrieved person or by the aggrieved person’s legal
representative who is not a party to the offense.
      (2)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3)
of this section has expired, prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2913.49
shall be commenced within five years after discovery of the offense either by
an aggrieved person or the aggrieved person’s legal representative who is not a
party to the offense.
   (C)   (1)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)
(3) of this section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for the
following offenses during the following specified periods of time:
         (a)   For an offense involving misconduct in office by a public
servant at any time while the accused remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter;
         (b)   For an offense by a person who is not a public servant but whose
offense is directly related to the misconduct in office of a public servant, at
any time while that public servant remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter.
      (2)   As used in this division:
         OFFENSE IS DIRECTLY RELATED TO THE MISCONDUCT IN OFFICE OF A PUBLIC
SERVANT. The phrase includes but is not limited to a violation of R.C. §
101.71, 101.91, 121.61 or 2921.13, 102.03(F) or (H), 2921.02(A), 2921.43(A) or
(B), or 3517.13(F) or (G), that is directly related to an offense involving
misconduct in office of a public servant, or a violation of any municipal
ordinance substantially equivalent to those Ohio Revised Code sections listed
in this division (C)(2).
         PUBLIC SERVANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
   (D)   (1)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal
investigation of the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 is
determined to match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if
the time of the determination is later than 25 years after the offense is
committed, prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be
commenced within five years after the determination is complete.
      (2)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal investigation
of the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 is determined to
match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if the time of
the determination is within 25 years after the offense is committed,
prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be commenced
within the longer of 25 years after the offense is committed or five years
after the determination is complete.
      (3)   As used in this division, DNA RECORD has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 109.573.
   (E)   An offense is committed when every element of the offense occurs. In
the case of an offense of which an element is a continuing course of conduct,
the period of limitation does not begin to run until such course of conduct or
the accused’s accountability for it terminates, whichever occurs first.
   (F)   A prosecution is commenced on the date an indictment is returned or an
information filed, or on the date a lawful arrest without a warrant is made, or
on the date a warrant, summons, citation, or other process is issued, whichever
occurs first. A prosecution is not commenced by the return of an indictment or
the filing of an information unless reasonable diligence is exercised to issue
and execute process on the same. A prosecution is not commenced upon issuance
of a warrant, summons, citation, or other process unless reasonable diligence
is exercised to execute the same.
   (G)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the corpus
delicti remains undiscovered.
   (H)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the
accused purposely avoids prosecution. Proof that the accused departed this
municipality or conceals the accused’s identity or whereabouts is prima facie
evidence of the accused’s purpose to avoid prosecution.
   (I)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time a prosecution
against the accused based on the same conduct is pending in this state, even
though the indictment, information, or process that commenced the prosecution
is quashed or the proceedings on the indictment, information, or process are
set aside or reversed on appeal.
   (J)   The period of limitation for a violation of this Title XIII or Title
XXIX of the Ohio Revised Code that involves a physical or mental wound, injury,
disability, or condition of a nature that reasonably indicates abuse or neglect
of a child under 18 years of age or of a child with a developmental disability
or physical impairment under 21 years of age shall not begin to run until
either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The victim of the offense reaches the age of majority.
      (2)   A public children services agency, or a municipal or county peace
officer that is not the parent or guardian of the child, in the county in which
the child resides or in which the abuse or neglect is occurring or has occurred
has been notified that abuse or neglect is known, suspected, or believed to
have occurred.
   (K)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2935.01.
   (L)   (1)   The amendments to divisions (A) and (D) of this section that
took effect on July 16, 2015, apply to a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03
committed on and after July 16, 2015, and apply to a violation of either of
those sections committed prior to July 16, 2015, if prosecution for that
violation was not barred under this section as it existed on July 16, 2015.
      (2)   The amendment to division (A)(2) of this section that took effect
on April 4, 2023, applies to a conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or
complicity in committing a violation of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 if the
conspiracy, attempt, or complicity is committed on or after April 4, 2023, and
applies to a conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing a violation of either of those sections if the conspiracy, attempt,
or complicity was committed prior to April 4, 2023, and prosecution for that
conspiracy, attempt, or complicity was not barred under this section as it
existed on the day prior to April 4, 2023.
(R.C. § 2901.13)
Statutory reference:
   Limitation for income tax violations, see R.C. § 718.12
§ 130.06 REQUIREMENTS FOR CRIMINAL LIABILITY.
   (A)   Except as provided in subsection (b) hereof, a person is not guilty of
an offense unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person’s liability is based on conduct that includes either a
voluntary act, or an omission to perform an act or duty that the person is
capable of performing;
      (2)   The person has the requisite degree of culpability for each element
as to which a culpable mental state is specified by the language defining the
offense.
   (B)   When the language defining an offense does not specify any degree of
culpability, and plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict criminal
liability for the conduct described in the section, then culpability is not
required for a person to be guilty of the offense. The fact that one subsection
of a section plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict liability for an
offense defined in that subsection does not by itself plainly indicate a
purpose to impose strict criminal liability for an offense defined in other
subsections of the section that do not specify a degree of culpability.
   (C)   (1)   When language defining an element of an offense that is related
to knowledge or intent or to which mens rea could fairly be applied neither
specifies culpability nor plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict
liability, the element of the offense is established only if a person acts
recklessly.
      (2)   Subsection (C)(1) of this section does not apply to offenses
defined in the Traffic Code.
      (3)   Subsection (C)(1) of this section does not relieve the prosecution
of the burden of proving the culpable mental state required by any definition
incorporated into the offense.
   (D)   Voluntary intoxication may not be taken into consideration in
determining the existence of a mental state that is an element of a criminal
offense. Voluntary intoxication does not relieve a person of a duty to act if
failure to act constitutes a criminal offense. Evidence that a person was
voluntarily intoxicated may be admissible to show whether or not the person was
physically capable of performing the act with which the person is charged.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      (1)   Possession is a voluntary act if the possessor knowingly procured
or received the thing possessed, or was aware of the possessor’s control of the
thing possessed for a sufficient time to have ended possession.
      (2)   Reflexes, convulsions, body movements during unconsciousness or
sleep, and body movements that are not otherwise a product of the actor's
volition, are involuntary acts.
      (3)   "Culpability" means purpose, knowledge, recklessness or negligence,
as defined in Section
130.07.
      (4)   “Intoxication” includes, but is not limited to, intoxication
resulting from the ingestion of alcohol, a drug, or alcohol and a drug.
(ORC 2901.21)
§ 130.07 CULPABLE MENTAL STATES.
   (A)   A person acts purposely when it is the person’s specific intention to
cause a certain result, or when the gist of the offense is a prohibition
against conduct of a certain nature, regardless of what the offender intends to
accomplish thereby, it is the offender’s specific intention to engage in
conduct of that nature.
   (B)   A person acts knowingly, regardless of purpose, when the person is
aware that the person’s conduct will probably cause a certain result or will
probably be of a certain nature. A person has knowledge of circumstances when
the person is aware that such circumstances probably exist.
   When knowledge of the existence of a particular fact is an element of an
offense, such knowledge is established if a person subjectively believes that
there is a high probability of its existence and fails to make inquiry or acts
with a conscious purpose to avoid learning the fact.
   (C)   A person acts recklessly when, with heedless indifference to the
consequences, the person perversely disregards a substantial and unjustifiable
risk that the person’s conduct is likely to cause a certain result or is likely
to be of a certain nature. A person is reckless with respect to circumstances
when, with heedless indifference to the consequences, the person perversely
disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that such circumstances are
likely to exist.
   (D)   A person acts negligently when, because of a substantial lapse from
due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that the person’s
conduct may cause a certain result or may be of a certain nature. A person is
negligent with respect to circumstances when, because of a substantial lapse
from due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that such
circumstances may exist.
   (E)   When the section defining an offense provides that negligence suffices
to establish an element thereof, then recklessness, knowledge or purpose is
also sufficient culpability for such element. When recklessness suffices to
establish an element of an offense, then knowledge or purpose is also
sufficient culpability for such element. When knowledge suffices to establish
an element of an offense, then purpose is also sufficient culpability for such
element.
(ORC 2901.22)
§ 130.08 OFFENSES; ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   An organization may be convicted of an offense under any of the
following circumstances:
      (1)   The offense is a minor misdemeanor committed by an officer, agent
or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the scope of
the officer's, agent's or employee's office or employment, except that if the
section defining the offense designates the officers, agents or employees for
whose conduct the organization is accountable or the circumstances under which
it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (2)   A purpose to impose organizational liability plainly appears in the
section defining the offense, and the offense is committed by an officer, agent
or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the scope of
the officer's, agent's or employee's office or employment, except that if the
section defining the offense designates the officers, agents or employees for
whose conduct the organization is accountable or the circumstances under which
it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (3)   The offense consists of an omission to discharge a specific duty
imposed by law on the organization.
      (4)   If, acting with the kind of culpability otherwise required for the
commission of the offense, its commission was authorized, requested, commanded,
tolerated or performed by the board of directors, trustees, partners or by a
high managerial officer, agent or employee acting in behalf of the organization
and within the scope of such a board's or person's office or employment.
   (B)   If strict liability is imposed for the commission of an offense, a
purpose to impose organizational liability shall be presumed, unless the
contrary plainly appears.
   (C)   In a prosecution of an organization for an offense other than one for
which strict liability is imposed, it is a defense that the high managerial
officer, agent or employee having supervisory responsibility over the subject
matter of the offense exercised due diligence to prevent its commission. This
defense is not available if it plainly appears inconsistent with the purpose of
the section defining the offense.
   (D)   As used in this section, "organization" means a corporation for profit
or not for profit, partnership, limited partnership, joint venture,
unincorporated nonprofit association, estate, trust or other commercial or
legal entity. "Organization" does not include an entity organized as or by a
governmental agency for the execution of a governmental program. (ORC 2901.23)
§ 130.09 OFFENSES; ORGANIZATION; OFFICERS, AGENTS, EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   An officer, agent, or employee of an organization as defined in §
130.08 may be prosecuted for an offense committed by such organization, if he
acts with the kind of culpability required for the commission of the offense,
and any of the following apply:
      (1)   In the name of the organization or in its behalf, he engages in
conduct constituting the offense, or causes another to engage in such conduct,
or tolerates such conduct when it is of a type for which he has direct
responsibility;
      (2)   He has primary responsibility to discharge a duty imposed on the
organization by law, and such duty is not discharged.
   (B)   When a person is convicted of an offense by reason of this section, he
is subject to the same penalty as if he had acted in his own behalf.
(R.C. § 2901.24) (Ord. 1839, passed 4-23-74)
§ 130.10 OFFENSES; REPEAT OFFENDER.
   (A)   REPEAT OFFENDER. A person who has a history of persistent criminal
activity, and whose character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he
will commit another offense. It is prima facie evidence that a person is a
repeat offender if any of the following apply:
      (1)   Having been convicted of one or more offenses of violence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.01 and §
130.01 of this title, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any
such offense, he commits a subsequent offense of violence;
      (2)   Having been convicted of one or more sexually oriented offenses as
defined in R.C. § 2950.01 or of §
137.01 of this title, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any
such offense, he commits a subsequent sexually oriented offense;
      (3)   Having been convicted of one or more theft offenses as defined in
R.C. § 2913.01 or of §
133.01 of this title, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any
such offense, he commits a subsequent theft offense;
      (4)   Having been convicted of 2 or more felonies, and having been
imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such offense, he commits a subsequent
offense;
      (5)   Having been convicted of 3 or more offenses of any type or degree
other than traffic offenses, alcoholic intoxication offenses, or minor
misdemeanors, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such
offense, he commits a subsequent offense;
      (6)   Having been convicted of one or more felony drug abuse offenses as
defined in R.C. Ch. 2925, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
any such offense, he commits a subsequent felony drug abuse offense.
   (B)   DANGEROUS OFFENDER. A person who has committed an offense, whose
history, character, and condition reveal a substantial risk that he will be a
danger to others, and whose conduct has been characterized by a pattern of
repetitive, compulsive, or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to
the consequences. (R.C. § 2935.36(E)) (Ord. 1839, passed 4-23-74)
   (C)   ACTUAL INCARCERATION. When an offender is required to be imprisoned
for the stated period of time to which he is sentenced that is specified as a
term of actual incarceration.
      (1)   If a person is sentenced to a term of actual incarceration, the
court shall not suspend his term of actual incarceration, and shall not grant
him probation or shock probation, pursuant to R.C. §§ 2929.51, 2947.061,
2951.02, or 2951.04 and the Department of Rehabilitation and Correction or the
adult parole authority shall not, pursuant to R.C. Ch. 2967 or its rules
adopted pursuant to R.C. Ch. 2967, 5120, or 5149, grant him a furlough for
employment or education, a furlough for being a trustworthy prisoner other than
a furlough pursuant to division (A)(1)(a) or (b) of R.C. § 2967.27, parole,
emergency parole, or shock parole until after the expiration of his term of
actual incarceration, diminished as provided in R.C. §§ 2967.19, 2967.193, and
5145.11.
      (2)   An offender who is sentenced to a term of actual incarceration may
be transferred from an institution operated by the Department of Rehabilitation
and Correction to the custody of the Department of Mental Health or the
Department of Mental Retardation and Developmental Disabilities, as provided in
R.C. § 5120.17, and shall be credited with all time served in the custody of
the Department of Mental Health or the Department of Mental Retardation and
Developmental Disabilities against the term of actual incarceration.
   (D)   DEADLY WEAPON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
(R.C. § 2935.36(E))
§ 130.11 OFFENSES; PENALTY; CONSIDERATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Unless a mandatory jail term is required to be imposed by R.C. §
1547.99(G), 4510.14(B), or 4511.19(G), or any other provision of the Ohio
Revised Code, or any municipal ordinance, a court that imposes a sentence under
this chapter upon an offender for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor has
discretion to determine the most effective way to achieve the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in § 130.99(B).
      (2)   Unless a specific sanction is required to be imposed or is
precluded from being imposed by the section setting forth an offense or the
penalty for an offense or by any provision of § 130.99 or 133.99 of this code
or R.C. §§ 2929.23 through 2929.28, a court that imposes a sentence upon an
offender for a misdemeanor may impose on the offender any sanction or
combination of sanctions under § 130.99(C) through (G). The court shall not
impose a sentence that imposes an unnecessary burden on local government
resources.
   (B)   (1)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, the
court shall consider all of the following factors:
         (a)   The nature and circumstances of the offense or offenses;
         (b)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender has a history of persistent criminal
activity and that the offender’s character and condition reveal a substantial
risk that the offender will commit another offense;
         (c)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender’s history, character, and condition
reveal a substantial risk that the offender will be a danger to others and that
the offender’s conduct has been characterized by a pattern of repetitive,
compulsive, or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences;
         (d)   Whether the victim’s youth, age, disability, or other factor
made the victim particularly vulnerable to the offense or made the impact of
the offense more serious;
         (e)   Whether the offender is likely to commit future crimes in
general, in addition to the circumstances described in divisions (B)(1)(b) and
(B)(1)(c) of this section;
         (f)   Whether the offender has an emotional, mental, or physical
condition that is traceable to the offender’s service in the armed forces of
the United States and that was a contributing factor in the offender’s
commission of the offense or offenses;
         (g)   The offender’s military service record.
      (2)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, in
addition to complying with division (B)(1) of this section, the court may
consider any other factors that are relevant to achieving the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in § 130.99(B).
   (C)   Before imposing a jail term as a sentence for a misdemeanor, a court
shall consider the appropriateness of imposing a community control sanction or
a combination of community control sanctions under § 130.99(D), (E), (F), and
(G). A court may impose the longest jail term authorized under § 130.99(C) only
upon offenders who commit the worst forms of the offense or upon offenders
whose conduct and response to prior sanctions for prior offenses demonstrate
that the imposition of the longest jail term is necessary to deter the offender
from committing a future criminal offense.
   (D)   (1)   A sentencing court shall consider any relevant oral and written
statement made by the victim, the victim’s representative, the victim’s
attorney, if applicable, the defendant, the defense attorney, and the
prosecuting authority regarding sentencing for a misdemeanor. This division
does not create any rights to notice other than those rights authorized by R.C.
Chapter 2930.
      (2)   At the time of sentencing for a misdemeanor or as soon as possible
after sentencing, the court shall notify the victim of the offense of the
victim’s right to file an application for an award of reparations pursuant to
R.C. §§ 2743.51 through 2743.72.
(R.C. § 2929.22) (Ord. 1839, passed 4-23-74)
§ 130.12 ATTEMPT.
   (A)   No person, purposely or knowingly, and when purpose or knowledge is
sufficient culpability for the commission of an offense, shall engage in
conduct that, if successful, would constitute or result in the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that, in retrospect,
commission of the offense that was the object of the attempt was either
factually or legally impossible under the attendant circumstances, if that
offense could have been committed had the attendant circumstances been as the
actor believed them to be.
   (C)   No person who is convicted of committing a specific offense, of
complicity in the commission of an offense, or of conspiracy to commit an
offense, shall be convicted of an attempt to commit the same offense in
violation of this section.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor abandoned his or her effort to commit the offense or otherwise prevented
its commission, under circumstances manifesting a complete and voluntary
renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an attempt to commit an
offense. An attempt to commit aggravated murder, murder, or an offense for
which the maximum penalty is imprisonment for life is a felony of the first
degree, to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to commit a
drug abuse offense for which the penalty is determined by the amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance involved in the drug abuse offense is
an offense of the same degree as the drug abuse offense attempted would be if
that drug abuse offense had been committed and had involved an amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance that is within the next lower range
of controlled substance amounts than was involved in the attempt. An attempt to
commit any other offense is an offense of the next lesser degree than the
offense attempted. In the case of an attempt to commit an offense other than a
violation of R.C. Chapter 3734 that is not specifically classified, an attempt
is a misdemeanor of the first degree if the offense attempted is a felony, and
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the offense attempted is a misdemeanor.
In the case of an attempt to commit a violation of any provision of R.C.
Chapter 3734, other than R.C. § 3734.18, that relates to hazardous wastes, an
attempt is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to
commit a minor misdemeanor, or to engage in conspiracy, is not an offense under
this section.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 2923.02)
Statutory reference:
   Conspiracy, see R.C. § 2923.01
   Solid and hazardous wastes, see R.C. Chapter 3734
§ 130.13 COMPLICITY.
   (A)   No person, acting with the kind of culpability required for the
commission of an offense, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Solicit or procure another to commit the offense;
      (2)   Aid or abet another in committing the offense;
      (3)   Conspire with another to commit the offense in violation of R.C. §
2923.01;
      (4)   Cause an innocent or irresponsible person to commit the offense;
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that no person with
whom the accused was in complicity has been convicted as a principal offender.
   (C)   No person shall be convicted of complicity under this section unless
an offense is actually committed, but a person may be convicted of complicity
in an attempt to commit an offense in violation of §
130.12.
   (D)   If an alleged accomplice of the defendant testifies against the
defendant in a case in which the defendant is charged with complicity in the
commission of or an attempt to commit an offense, an attempt to commit an
offense, or an offense, the court shall charge the jury in accordance with R.C.
§ 2923.03(D).
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that,
prior to the commission of or attempt to commit the offense, the actor
terminated his complicity, under circumstances manifesting a complete and
voluntary renunciation of his criminal purpose.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of complicity in the
commission of an offense, and shall be prosecuted and punished as if he were a
principal offender. A charge of complicity may be stated in terms of this
section, or in terms of the principal offense.
(R.C. § 2923.03) (Ord. 1839, passed 4-23-74)
§ 130.14 OFFENSES; PENALTY; ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   Regardless of the penalties provided in §
130.11 of this title, an organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
130.08 shall be fined in accordance with this section. The court shall fix the
fine as follows:
      (1)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than $5,000;
      (2)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $4,000;
      (3)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $3,000;
      (4)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $2,000;
      (5)   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $1,000;
      (6)   For a misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more than
$2,000;
      (7)   For a minor misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more than
$1,000;
   (B)   When an organization is convicted of an offense that is not
specifically classified, and the section defining the offense or penalty
plainly indicates a purpose to impose the penalty provided for violation upon
organizations, then the penalty so provided shall be imposed in lieu of the
penalty provided in this section.
   (C)   When an organization is convicted of an offense that is not
specifically classified, and the penalty provided includes a higher fine than
the fine that is provided in this section, then the penalty imposed shall be
pursuant to the penalty provided for the violation of the section defining the
offense.
   (D)   This section does not prevent the imposition of available civil
sanctions against an organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
130.08, either in addition to or in lieu of a fine imposed pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2929.31) (Ord. 1839, passed 4-23-74)
§ 130.15 NAMES OF PERSONS DAMAGING REAL PROPERTY BY OPERATION OF VEHICLE TO BE
PROVIDED TO OWNER.
   (A)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 4501.01.
   (B)   If damage is caused to real property by the operation of a motor
vehicle in, or during the, violation of any section of the Revised Code or of
any municipal ordinance, the law enforcement agency that investigates the case,
upon request of the real property owner, shall provide the owner with the names
of the persons who are charged with the commission of the offense. If a request
for the names is made, the agency shall provide the names as soon as possible
after the persons are charged with the offense.
   (C)   The personnel of law enforcement agencies who act pursuant to division
(B) of this section in good faith are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from their actions taken pursuant to that division. Political
subdivisions and the state are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from the actions of personnel of their law enforcement
agencies if the personnel have immunity under this division.
(R.C. § 2935.28)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Except where otherwise specifically classified within the
body of the section of a chapter of this title, a violation of such section
shall be deemed a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a fine of not more
than $500, imprisonment of not more than six months, or both.
(R.C. § 715.67)
   (B)   Considerations in misdemeanor sentencing.
      (1)   A court that sentences an offender for a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, or of any
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, shall be guided
by the overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing. The overriding purposes
of misdemeanor sentencing are to protect the public from future crime by the
offender and others and to punish the offender. To achieve those purposes, the
sentencing court shall consider the impact of the offense upon the victim and
the need for changing the offender’s behavior, rehabilitating
the defender, and making restitution to the victim of the offense, the public,
or the victim and the public.
      (2)   A sentence imposed for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation
of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a violation of a municipal ordinance
that is subject to division (B)(1) of this section shall be reasonably
calculated to achieve the two overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing set
forth in division (B)(1) of this section, commensurate with and not demeaning
to the seriousness of the offender’s conduct and its impact upon the victim,
and consistent with sentences imposed for similar offenses committed by similar
offenders.
      (3)   A court that imposes a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor
or minor misdemeanor violation of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a
violation of a municipal ordinance that is subject to division (B)(1) of this
section shall not base the sentence upon the race, ethnic background, gender,
or religion of the offender.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) of this section shall not apply to any
offense that is disposed of by a traffic violations bureau of any court
pursuant to Traffic Rule 13 and shall not apply to any violation of any
provision of the Ohio Revised Code that is a minor misdemeanor and that is
disposed of without a court appearance. Divisions (B)(1) through (B)(3) of this
section do not affect any penalties established by the municipality for a
violation of its ordinances that are not substantially equivalent to a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised
Code.
(R.C. § 2929.21)
   (C)   Misdemeanor jail terms.
      (1)   Except as provided in R.C. § 2929.22 or 2929.23 or division (C)(5)
of this section and unless another term is required or authorized pursuant to
law, if the sentencing court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a
misdemeanor elects or is required to impose a jail term on the offender
pursuant to this chapter, the court shall impose a definite jail term that
shall be one of the following:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than 180 days;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than 90 days;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than 60 days;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than 30 days.
      (2)   (a)   A court that sentences an offender to a jail term under
division (C) of this section may permit the offender to serve the sentence in
intermittent confinement or may authorize a limited release of the offender as
provided in division (E)(2) of this section. The court retains jurisdiction
over every offender sentenced to jail to modify the jail sentence imposed at
any time, but the court shall not reduce any mandatory jail term.
         (b)   1.   If a prosecutor, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01, has filed a
notice with the court that the prosecutor wants to be notified about a
particular case and if the court is considering modifying the jail sentence of
the offender in that case, the court shall notify the prosecutor that the court
is considering modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case. The
prosecutor may request a hearing regarding the court’s consideration of
modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, and, if the
prosecutor requests a hearing, the court shall notify the eligible offender of
the hearing.
            2.   If the prosecutor requests a hearing regarding the court’s
consideration of modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, the
court shall hold the hearing before considering whether or not to release the
offender from the offender’s jail sentence.
      (3)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under division (C)
of this section and the court assigns the offender to a county jail that has
established a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30, the
court shall specify, as part of the sentence, whether the offender may be
considered for participation in the program. During the offender’s term in the
county jail, the court retains jurisdiction to modify its specification
regarding the offender’s participation in the county jail industry program.
      (4)   If a person sentenced to a jail term pursuant to division (C) of
this section, the court may impose as part of the sentence pursuant to R.C. §
2929.28 a reimbursement sanction, and, if the local detention facility in which
the term is to be served is covered by a policy adopted pursuant to R.C. §
307.93, 341.14, 341.19, 341.21, 341.23, 753.02, 753.04, 753.16, 2301.56, or
2947.19 and R.C. § 2929.37, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The court shall specify both of the following as part of the
sentence:
            1.   If the person is presented with an itemized bill pursuant to
R.C. § 2929.37 for payment of the costs of confinement, the person is required
to pay the bill in accordance with that section.
            2.   If the person does not dispute the bill described in division
(C)(4)(a)1. of this section and does not pay the bill by the times specified in
R.C. § 2929.37, the clerk of the court may issue a certificate of judgment
against the person as described in that section.
         (b)   The sentence automatically includes any certificate of judgment
issued as described in division (C)(4)(a)2. of this section.
      (5)   (a)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and to a specification of the
type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 and if the court imposes a jail term on the
offender for the misdemeanor violation, the court may impose upon the offender
an additional definite jail term as follows:
            1.   Subject to division (C)(5)(a)2. of this section, an additional
definite jail term of not more than 60 days;
            2.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one or more misdemeanor or felony violations of R.C. § 2907.22,
2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and also was convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 regarding one or more
of those violations, an additional definite jail term of not more than 120
days.
         (b)   In lieu of imposing an additional definite jail term under
division (C)(5)(a) of this section, the court may directly impose on the
offender a sanction that requires the offender to wear a real-time processing,
continual tracking electronic monitoring device during the period of time
specified by the court. The period of time specified by the court shall equal
the duration of an additional jail term that the court could have imposed upon
the offender under division (C)(5)(a) of this section. A sanction imposed under
this division shall commence on the date specified by the court, provided that
the sanction shall not commence until after the offender has served the jail
term imposed for the misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24,
2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
any residential sanction imposed for the violation under division (E) of this
section or R.C. § 2929.26. A sanction imposed under this division shall be
considered to be a community control sanction for purposes of division (D) of
this section or R.C. § 2929.25, and all provisions of this code and the Ohio
Revised Code that pertain to community control sanctions shall apply to a
sanction imposed under this division, except to the extent that they would by
their nature be clearly inapplicable. The offender shall pay all costs
associated with a sanction imposed under this division, including the cost of
the use of the monitoring device.
      (6)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1423 that charges that the
victim of the violation was a woman whom the offender knew was pregnant at the
time of the violation, the court shall impose on the offender a mandatory jail
term that is a definite term of at least 30 days.
      (7)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under this division
(C), the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender and the jail
term. Upon motion of either party or upon the court’s own motion, the court, in
the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may substitute
one or more community control sanctions under division (E) or (F) of this
section for any jail days that are not mandatory jail days.
(R.C. § 2929.24)
   (D)   Misdemeanor community control sanctions.
      (1)   (a)   Except as provided in §§ 130.18 and 133.99 of this code or
R.C. §§ 2929.22 and 2929.23 or when a jail term is required by law, in
sentencing an offender for a misdemeanor, other than a minor
misdemeanor, the sentencing court may do either of the following:
            1.   Directly impose a sentence that consists of one or more
community control sanctions authorized by divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this
section. The court may impose any other conditions of release under a community
control sanction that the court considers appropriate. If the court imposes a
jail term upon the offender, the court may impose any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions in addition to the jail
term.
            2.   Impose a jail term under division (C) of this section from the
range of jail terms authorized under that division for the offense, suspend all
or a portion of the jail term imposed, and place the offender under a community
control sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this section.
         (b)   The duration of all community control sanctions imposed upon an
offender and in effect for an offender at any time shall not exceed five years.
         (c)   At sentencing, if a court directly imposes a community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)
(1)(a)1. of this section, the court shall state the duration of the community
control sanctions imposed and shall notify the offender that if any of the
conditions of the community control sanctions are violated the court may do any
of the following:
            1.   Impose a longer time under the same community control sanction
if the total time under all of the offender’s community control sanctions does
not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this section;
            2.   Impose a more restrictive community control sanction under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, but the court is not required to
impose any particular sanction or sanctions;
            3.   Impose a definite jail term from the range of jail terms
authorized for the offense under division (C) of this section.
      (2)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control sanction
or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)(1)(a)1.
of this section, the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender
and the period of community control for the duration of the period of community
control. Upon the motion of either party or on the court’s own motion, the
court, in the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may
modify the community control sanctions or conditions of release previously
imposed, substitute a community control sanction or condition of release for
another community control sanction or condition of release previously imposed,
or impose an additional community control sanction or condition of release.
      (3)   (a)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, the court shall place the offender
under the general control and supervision of the court or of a department of
probation in the jurisdiction that serves the court for purposes of reporting
to the court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. If
the offender resides in another jurisdiction and a department of probation has
been established to serve the municipal court or county court in that
jurisdiction, the sentencing court may request the municipal court or the
county court to receive the offender into the general control and supervision
of that department of probation for purposes of reporting to the sentencing
court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. The
sentencing court retains jurisdiction over any offender whom it sentences for
the duration of the sanction or sanctions imposed.
         (b)   The sentencing court shall require as a condition of any
community control sanction that the offender abide by the law and not leave the
state without the permission of the court or the offender’s probation officer.
In the interests of doing justice, rehabilitating the offender, and ensuring
the offender’s good behavior, the court may impose additional requirements on
the offender. The offender’s compliance with the additional requirements also
shall be a condition of the community control sanction imposed upon the
offender.
      (4)   (a)   If the court imposing sentence upon an offender sentences the
offender to any community control sanction or combination of community control
sanctions authorized under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, and the
offender violates any of the conditions of the sanctions, the public or private
person or entity that supervises or administers the program or activity that
comprises the sanction shall report the violation directly to the sentencing
court or to the department of probation or probation officer with general
control and supervision over
the offender. If the public or private person or entity reports the violation
to the department of probation or probation officer, the department or officer
shall report the violation to the sentencing court.
         (b)   Except as provided in division (D)(4)(c) of this section, if an
offender violates any condition of a community control sanction, the sentencing
court may impose upon the violator one or more of the following penalties:
            1.   A longer time under the same community control sanction if the
total time under all of the community control sanctions imposed on the violator
does not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this
section;
            2.   A more restrictive community control sanction;
            3.   A combination of community control sanctions, including a jail
term.
         (c)   If an offender was acting pursuant to R.C. § 2925.11(B)(2)(b),
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a related provision
under R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14, or R.C. § 2925.141, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and in so doing violated the conditions of a
community control sanction based on a minor drug possession offense, as defined
in R.C. § 2925.11, or violated R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. §
2925.141, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the sentencing
court shall not impose any of the penalties described in division (D)(4)(b) of
this section based on the violation.
         (d)   If the court imposes a jail term upon a violator pursuant to
division (D)(4)(b) of this section, the total time spent in jail for the
misdemeanor offense and the violation of a condition of the community control
sanction shall not exceed the maximum jail term available for the offense for
which the sanction that was violated was imposed. The court may reduce the
longer period of time that the violator is required to spend under the longer
sanction or the more restrictive sanction imposed under division (D)(4)(b) of
this section by all or part of the time the violator successfully spent under
the sanction that was initially imposed.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if an offender, for
a significant period of time, fulfills the conditions of a community control
sanction imposed pursuant to division (E), (F), or (G) of this section in an
exemplary manner, the court may reduce the period of time under the community
control sanction or impose a less restrictive community control sanction.
Fulfilling the conditions of a community control sanction does not relieve the
offender of a duty to make restitution under division (G) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.25)
   (E)   Community residential sanction.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any community residential sanction or combination of
community residential sanctions under this division (E). Community residential
sanctions include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   A term of up to 180 days in a halfway house or a term in a
halfway house not to exceed the longest jail term available for the offense,
whichever is shorter, if the political subdivision that would have
responsibility for paying the costs of confining the offender in a jail has
entered into a contract with the halfway house for use of the facility for
misdemeanor offenders;
         (b)   If the offender is an eligible offender, as defined in R.C. §
307.932, a term in a community alternative sentencing center or district
community alternative sentencing center established and operated in accordance
with that section, in the circumstances specified in that section, with one of
the conditions of the sanction being that the offender successfully complete
the portion of the sentence to be served in the center.
      (2)   A sentence to a community residential sanction under division (E)
(1)(b) of this section shall be in accordance with R.C. § 307.932. In all other
cases, the court that sentences an offender to a community residential sanction
under this division (E) may do either or both of the following:
         (a)   Permit the offender to serve the offender’s sentence in
intermittent confinement, overnight, on weekends or at any other time or times
that will allow the offender to continue at the offender’s occupation or care
for the offender’s family;
         (b)   Authorize the offender to be released so that the offender may
seek or maintain employment, receive education or training, receive treatment,
perform community service, or otherwise fulfill an obligation imposed by law or
by the court. A release pursuant to this
division shall be only for the duration of time that is needed to fulfill the
purpose of the release and for travel that reasonably is necessary to fulfill
the purposes of release.
      (3)   The court may order that a reasonable portion of the income earned
by the offender upon a release pursuant to division (E)(2) of this section be
applied to any financial sanction imposed under division (G) of this section.
      (4)   No court shall sentence any person to a prison term for a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor or to a jail term for a minor misdemeanor.
      (5)   If a court sentences a person who has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a misdemeanor to a community residential sanction as described in
division (E)(1) of this section, at the time of reception and at other times
the person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place at which the offender will serve the residential
sanction determines to be appropriate, the person in charge of the operation of
the halfway house, community alternative sentencing center, district community
alternative sentencing center, or other place may cause the convicted offender
to be examined and tested for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis, including
but not limited to hepatitis A, B, and C, and other contagious diseases. The
person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community alternative
sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing center, or other
place at which the offender will serve the residential sanction may cause a
convicted offender in the halfway house, community alternative sentencing
center, district community alternative sentencing center, or other place who
refuses to be tested or treated for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis,
including but not limited to hepatitis A, B, and C, or another contagious
disease to be tested and treated involuntarily.
      (6)   The municipality may enter into a contract with a halfway house for
use of the halfway house to house misdemeanor offenders under a sanction
imposed under division (E)(1)(a) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.26)
   (F)   Nonresidential sanction where jail term is not mandatory.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any nonresidential sanction or combination of
nonresidential sanctions authorized under this division. Nonresidential
sanctions include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   A term of day reporting;
         (b)   A term of house arrest with electronic monitoring or continuous
alcohol monitoring or both electronic monitoring and continuous alcohol
monitoring, a term of electronic monitoring or continuous alcohol monitoring
without house arrest, or a term of house arrest without electronic monitoring
or continuous alcohol monitoring;
         (c)   A term of community service of up to 500 hours for misdemeanor
of the first degree or 200 hours for a misdemeanor of the second, third, or
fourth degree;
         (d)   A term in a drug treatment program with a level of security for
the offender as determined necessary by the court;
         (e)   A term of intensive probation supervision;
         (f)   A term of basic probation supervision;
         (g)   A term of monitored time;
         (h)   A term of drug and alcohol use monitoring, including random drug
testing;
         (i)   A curfew term;
         (j)   A requirement that the offender obtain employment;
         (k)   A requirement that the offender obtain education or training;
         (l)   Provided the court obtains the prior approval of the victim, a
requirement that the offender participate in victim-offender mediation;
         (m)   If authorized by law, suspension of the offender’s privilege to
operate a motor vehicle, immobilization or forfeiture of the offender’s motor
vehicle, a requirement that the offender obtain a valid motor vehicle
operator’s license, or any other related sanction;
         (n)   A requirement that the offender obtain counseling if the offense
is a violation of R.C. § 2919.25 or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or a violation of R.C. § 2903.13
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance involving a person who was a
family or household member at the time of the violation, if the offender
committed the offense in the vicinity of one or more children who are not
victims of the offense, and if the offender or the victim of the offense is a
parent, guardian, custodian, or person in loco parentis of one or more of those
children. This division does not limit the court in requiring that the offender
obtain counseling for any offense or in any circumstance not specified in this
division.
      (2)   If the court imposes a term of community service pursuant to
division (F)(1)(c) of this section, the offender may request that the court
modify the sentence to authorize the offender to make a reasonable
contribution, as determined by the court, to the general fund of the county,
municipality, or other local entity that provides funding to the court. The
court may grant the request if the offender demonstrates a change in
circumstances from the date the court imposes the sentence or that the
modification would otherwise be in the interests of justice. If the court
grants the request, the offender shall make a reasonable contribution to the
court, and the clerk of the court shall deposit that contribution into the
general fund of the county, municipality, or other local entity that provides
funding to the court. If more than one entity provides funding to the court,
the clerk shall deposit a percentage of the reasonable contribution equal to
the percentage of funding the entity provides to the court in that entity’s
general fund.
      (3)   In addition to the sanctions authorized under division (F)(1) of
this section, the court imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, upon an offender who is not required to serve a mandatory
jail term may impose any other sanction that is intended to discourage the
offender or other persons from committing a similar offense if the sanction is
reasonably related to the overriding purposes and principles of misdemeanor
sentencing.
      (4)   The court imposing a sentence for a minor misdemeanor may impose a
term of community service in lieu of all or part of a fine. The term of
community service imposed for a minor misdemeanor shall not exceed 30 hours.
After imposing a term of community service, the court may modify the sentence
to authorize a reasonable contribution, as determined by the court, to the
appropriate general fund as provided in division (F)(2) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.27)
   (G)   Financial sanctions.
      (1)   In addition to imposing court costs pursuant to R.C. § 2947.23, the
court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor, including a minor
misdemeanor, may sentence the offender to any financial sanction or combination
of financial sanctions authorized under this division (G) and, if the offender
is being sentenced for a criminal offense as defined in R.C. § 2930.01, shall
sentence the offender to make restitution pursuant to this division (G) and
R.C. § 2929.281. If the court, in its discretion or as required by this
division (G), imposes one or more financial sanctions, the financial sanctions
that may be imposed pursuant to this division (G) include, but are not limited
to, the following:
         (a)   Restitution.
            1.   Unless the misdemeanor offense could be disposed of by the
traffic violations bureau serving the court under Traffic Rule 13, restitution
by the offender to the victim of the offender’s crime or the victim’s estate,
in an amount based on the victim’s economic loss. The court may not impose
restitution as a sanction pursuant to this division if the offense could be
disposed of by the traffic violations bureau serving the court under Traffic
Rule 13. If the court requires restitution, the court shall order that the
restitution be made to the victim in open court or to the adult probation
department that serves the jurisdiction or the clerk of the court on behalf of
the victim.
            2.   The court shall determine the amount of restitution to be paid
by the offender. The victim, victim’s representative, victim’s attorney, if
applicable, the prosecutor or the prosecutor’s designee, and the offender may
provide information relevant to the determination of the amount of restitution.
The amount the court orders as restitution shall not exceed the amount of the
economic loss suffered by the victim as a direct and proximate result of the
commission of the offense. If the court imposes restitution for the cost of
accounting or auditing done to determine the extent of economic loss, the court
may order restitution for any amount of the victim’s costs of accounting or
auditing provided that the amount of restitution is reasonable and does not
exceed the value of property or services stolen or damaged as a result of the
offense. If the court decides to or is required to impose restitution, the
court shall hold an evidentiary hearing on restitution if the offender, victim,
victim’s representative, victim’s attorney, if applicable, or victim’s estate
disputes the amount of restitution. The court shall determine the amount of
full restitution by a preponderance of the evidence.
            3.   All restitution payments shall be credited against any
recovery of economic loss in a civil action brought by the victim or the
victim’s estate against the offender. No person may introduce evidence of an
award of restitution under this division (G) in a civil action for purposes of
imposing liability against an insurer under R.C. § 3937.18.
            4.   The court may order that the offender pay a surcharge, of not
more than 5% of the amount of the restitution otherwise ordered, to the entity
responsible for collecting and processing restitution payments.
            5.   The victim, victim’s attorney, if applicable, or the attorney
for the victim’s estate may request that the prosecutor in the case file a
motion, or the offender may file a motion, for modification of the payment
terms of any restitution ordered. If the court grants the motion, it may modify
the payment terms as it determines appropriate but shall not reduce the amount
of restitution ordered, except as provided in R.C. § 2929.281(A).
         (b)   Fines. A fine of the type described in divisions (G)(1)(b)1. and
(G)(1)(b)2. of this section payable to the appropriate entity as required by
law:
            1.   A fine in the following amount:
               a.   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than
$1,000;
               b.   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $750;
               c.   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $500;
               d.   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $250;
               e.   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $150.
            2.   A state fine or cost as defined in R.C. § 2949.111.
         (c)   Reimbursement.
            1.    Reimbursement by the offender of any or all of the costs of
sanctions incurred by the government, including but not limited to the
following:
               a.   All or part of the costs of implementing any community
control sanction, including a supervision fee under R.C. § 2951.021 and the
costs of global positioning system device monitoring;
               b.   All or part of the costs of confinement in a jail or other
residential facility, including but not limited to a per diem fee for room and
board, the costs of medical and dental treatment, and the costs of repairing
property damaged by the offender while confined;
               c.   All or part of the cost of purchasing and using an
immobilizing or disabling device, including a certified ignition interlock
device, or a remote alcohol monitoring device that a court orders an offender
to use under R.C. § 4510.13.
            2.   The amount of reimbursement under division (G)(1)(c)1. of this
section shall not exceed the total amount of reimbursement the offender is able
to pay and shall not exceed the actual cost of the sanctions. The court may
collect any amount of reimbursement the offender is required to pay under that
division. If the court does not order reimbursement under that division,
confinement costs may be assessed pursuant to a repayment policy adopted under
R.C. § 2929.37. In addition, the offender may be required to pay the fees
specified in R.C. § 2929.38 in accordance with that section.   
      (2)   (a)   If the court determines a hearing is necessary, the court may
hold a hearing to determine whether the offender is able to pay the financial
sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G) or court costs or is likely in
the future to be able to pay the sanction or costs.
         (b)   If the court determines that the offender is indigent and unable
to pay the financial sanction or court costs, the court shall consider imposing
and may impose a term of community service under division (F)(1) of this
section in lieu of imposing a financial sanction or court costs. If the court
does not determine that the offender is indigent, the court may impose a term
of community service under division (F)(1) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this division (G) and in
addition to imposing court costs. The court may order community service for a
minor misdemeanor pursuant to division (F)(4) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this section and in addition to
imposing court costs. If a person fails to pay a financial sanction or court
costs, the court may order community service in lieu of the financial sanction
or court costs.
      (3)   (a)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the
offender pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs
incurred by a county pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F),
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the county
treasurer. The county treasurer shall deposit the reimbursements in the
county’s General Fund. The county shall use the amounts deposited in the fund
to pay the costs incurred by the county pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (b)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the offender
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs incurred by a
municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F),
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the
treasurer of the municipal corporation. The treasurer shall deposit the
reimbursements in the municipal corporation’s General Fund. The municipal
corporation shall use the amounts deposited in the fund to pay the costs
incurred by the municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (c)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(c) of this section for the costs incurred by a private provider
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section
to the provider.
      (4)   (a)   In addition to any other fine that is or may be imposed under
this section, the court imposing sentence upon an offender for misdemeanor
domestic violence or menacing by stalking may impose a fine of not less than
$70 nor more than $500, which shall, except as provided in divisions (G)(4)(b)
and (G)(4)(c) of this section, be transmitted to the Treasurer of Ohio to be
credited to the address confidentiality program fund created by R.C. § 111.48.
         (b)   A court that imposes a fine under division (G)(4)(a) of this
section may retain up to 25% of amounts collected in satisfaction of the fine
to cover administrative costs.
         (c)   A court that imposes a fine under division (G)(4)(a) of this
section may assign up to 25% of amounts collected in satisfaction of the fine
to reimburse the prosecuting attorney for costs associated with prosecution of
the offense.
      (5)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (G)(5), a
financial sanction imposed under division (G)(1) of this section is a judgment
in favor of the state or the political subdivision that operates the court that
imposed the financial sanction, and the offender subject to the financial
sanction is the judgment debtor. A financial sanction of reimbursement imposed
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.a. of this section upon an offender is a
judgment in favor of the entity administering the community control sanction,
and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the judgment debtor. A
financial sanction of reimbursement imposed pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.b.
of this section upon an offender confined in a jail or other residential
facility is a judgment in favor of the entity operating the jail or other
residential facility, and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the
judgment debtor. A financial sanction of restitution imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(a) of this section is an order in favor of the victim of the
offender’s criminal act that can be collected through a certificate of judgment
as described in division (G)(5)(b)1. of this section, through execution as
described in division (G)(5)(b)2. of this section or through an order as
described in division (G)(5)(b)3. of this section and the offender shall be
considered for purposes of the collection as a judgment debtor.
         (b)   Once a financial sanction is imposed as a judgment or order
under this division, the victim, private provider, state, or political
subdivision may do any of the following:
            1.   Obtain from the clerk of the court in which the judgment was
entered, at no charge, a certificate of judgment that shall be in the same
manner and form as a certificate of judgment issued in a civil action;
            2.   Obtain execution of the judgment or order through any
available procedure, including any of the procedures identified in R.C. §
2929.18(D)(1) and (D)(2) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            3.   Obtain an order for the assignment of wages of the judgment
debtor under R.C. § 1321.33 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (6)   The civil remedies authorized under division (G)(5) of this section
for the collection of the financial sanction supplement, but do not preclude,
enforcement of the criminal sentence.
      (7)   Each court imposing a financial sanction upon an offender under
this division (G) may designate the clerk of the court or another person to
collect the financial sanction. The clerk, or another person authorized by law
or the court to collect the financial sanction may do the following:
         (a)   Enter into contracts with one or more public agencies or private
vendors for the collection of
amounts due under the sanction. Before entering into a contract for the
collection of amounts due from an offender pursuant to any financial sanction
imposed pursuant to this division (G), a court shall comply with R.C. §§ 307.86
through 307.92.
         (b)   Permit payment of all or any portion of the sanction in
installments, by financial transaction device if the court is a county court or
a municipal court operated by a county, or by any other reasonable method, in
any time, and on any terms that the court considers just. If the court is a
county court or a municipal court operated by a county, the acceptance of
payments by any financial transaction device shall be governed by the policy
adopted by the board of county commissioners of the county pursuant to R.C. §
301.28. If the court is a municipal court not operated by a county, the clerk
may pay any fee associated with processing an electronic transfer out of public
money or may charge the fee to the offender.
         (c)   To defray administrative costs, charge a reasonable fee to an
offender who elects a payment plan rather than a lump sum payment of any
financial sanction.
      (8)   No financial sanction imposed under this division (G) shall
preclude a victim from bringing a civil action against the offender.
      (9)   If the court imposes restitution, fines, fees, or incarceration
costs on a business or corporation, it is the duty of the person authorized to
make disbursements from assets of the business or corporation to pay the
restitution, fines, fees, or incarceration costs from those assets.
(R.C. § 2929.28)
Statutory reference:
   Citation issuance and limitations on arrest for minor misdemeanors, see R.C.
§ 2935.26
   Crime Victim’s Reparations Fund, see R.C. § 2929.32
   Habitual sex offender and sexual predator registration, see R.C. Chapter
2950
   Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
   Reports to health care licensing boards of criminal offenses, see R.C. §
2929.42
CHAPTER 131: ADMINISTRATION AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
131.01   Compounding a crime
131.02   Failure to report a crime
131.03   Failure to aid a law enforcement officer
131.04   Obstructing official business
131.05   Obstructing justice
131.06   Resisting arrest
131.07   Personating an officer
131.08   Impersonation of peace officer
131.09   Assaulting police dog or horse or an assistance dog
131.10   False allegation of peace officer misconduct
131.11   Refusal to disclose personal information in public place
§ 131.01 COMPOUNDING A CRIME.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly demand, accept, or agree to accept anything
of value in consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon a pending
criminal prosecution.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section when both
of the following apply:
      (1)   The pending prosecution involved is for a violation of §§
133.07 or
133.10, division (B) (2) of §
133.11 or R.C. § 2913.47 of which the actor under this section was the victim.
      (2)   The thing of value demanded, accepted, or agreed to be accepted, in
consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon the prosecution, did not
exceed an amount that the actor reasonably believed due him as restitution for
the loss caused him by the offense.
   (C)   When a prosecuting witness abandons or agrees to abandon a prosecution
under division (B) of this section, such abandonment or agreement in no way
binds the state to abandoning the prosecution.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of compounding a crime, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. (R.C. § 2921.21) (Ord. 1839, passed 4-23-74)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.02 FAILURE TO REPORT A CRIME.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in subsection (A)(2) hereof, no person,
knowing that a felony has been or is being committed, shall knowingly fail to
report such information to law enforcement authorities.
      (2)   No person, knowing that a violation of division (B) of Ohio R.C.
2913.04 has been, or is being committed or that the person has received
information derived from such a violation, shall knowingly fail to report the
violation to law enforcement authorities.
   (B)   Except for conditions that are within the scope of subsection (E) of
this section, no person giving aid to a sick or injured person shall
negligently fail to report to law enforcement authorities any gunshot or stab
wound treated or observed by the person, or any serious physical harm to
persons that the person knows or has reasonable cause to believe resulted from
an offense of violence.
   (C)   No person who discovers the body or acquires the first knowledge of
the death of a person shall fail to report the death immediately to a physician
or advanced practice registered nurse whom the person knows to be treating the
deceased for a condition from which death at such time would not be unexpected,
or to a law enforcement officer, an ambulance service, an emergency squad, or
the coroner in a political subdivision in which the body is discovered, the
death is believed to have occurred, or knowledge concerning the death is
obtained. For purposes of this subsection (C), "advanced practice registered
nurse" does not include a certified registered nurse anesthetist.
   (D)   No person shall fail to provide upon request of the person to whom a
report required by subsection (C) of this section was made, or to any law
enforcement officer who has reasonable cause to assert the authority to
investigate the circumstances surrounding the death, any facts within the
person's knowledge that may have a bearing on the investigation of the death.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this subsection, "burn injury" means any of the
following:
         (a)   Second or third degree burns;
         (b)   Any burns to the upper respiratory tract or laryngeal edema due
to the inhalation of superheated air;
         (c)   Any burn injury or wound that may result in death;
         (d)   Any physical harm to persons caused by or as the result of the
use of fireworks, novelties and trick noisemakers, and wire sparklers, as each
is defined by Ohio R.C. 3743.01.
      (2)   No physician, nurse, physician assistant, or limited practitioner
who, outside a hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility, attends or
treats a person who has sustained a burn injury that is inflicted by an
explosion or other incendiary device, or that shows evidence of having been
inflicted in a violent, malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the
burn injury immediately to the local arson, or fire and explosion
investigation, bureau, if there is a bureau of this type in the jurisdiction in
which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local law enforcement
authorities.
      (3)   No manager, superintendent or other person in charge of a hospital,
sanitarium or other medical facility in which a person is attended or treated
for any burn injury that is inflicted by an explosion or other incendiary
device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a violent,
malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury immediately
to the local arson, or fire and explosion investigation, bureau, if there is a
bureau of this type in the jurisdiction in which the person is attended or
treated, or otherwise to local law enforcement authorities.
      (4)   No person who is required to report any burn injury under
subsection (E)(2) or (3) of this section shall fail to file, within three
working days after attending or treating the victim, a written report of the
burn injury with the office of the State Fire Marshal. The report shall comply
with the uniform standard developed by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to Ohio
R.C. 3737.22(A)(15).
      (5)   Anyone participating in the making of reports under subsection (E)
of this section or anyone participating in a judicial proceeding resulting from
the reports is immune from any civil or criminal liability that otherwise might
be incurred or imposed as a result of such actions. Notwithstanding Ohio R.C.
4731.22, the physician-patient relationship or advanced practice registered
nurse-patient relationship is not a ground for excluding evidence regarding a
person's burn injury or the cause of the burn
injury in any judicial proceeding resulting from a report submitted under
subsection (E) of this section.
   (F)   (1)   Any doctor of medicine or osteopathic medicine, hospital intern
or resident, nurse, psychologist, social worker, independent social worker,
social work assistant, licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed
professional counselor, independent marriage and family therapist or marriage
and family therapist who knows or has reasonable cause to believe that a
patient or client has been the victim of domestic violence, as defined in Ohio
R.C. 3113.31, shall note that knowledge or belief and the basis for it in the
patient's or client's records.
      (2)   Notwithstanding Ohio R.C. 4731.22, the physician-patient privilege
or advanced practice registered nurse-patient privilege shall not be a ground
for excluding any information regarding the report containing the knowledge or
belief noted under subsection (F)(1) of this section, and the information may
be admitted as evidence in accordance with the Rules of Evidence.
   (G)   Subsections (A) and (D) of this section do not require disclosure of
information, when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The information is privileged by reason of the relationship between
attorney and client; physician and patient; advanced practice registered nurse
and patient; licensed psychologist or licensed school psychologist and client;
licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed professional counselor,
independent social worker, social worker, independent marriage and family
therapist, or marriage and family therapist and client; member of the clergy,
rabbi, minister, or priest and any person communicating information
confidentially to the member of the clergy, rabbi, minister, or priest for a
religious counseling purpose of a professional character; husband and wife; or
a communications assistant and those who are a party to a telecommunications
relay service call.
      (2)   The information would tend to incriminate a member of the actor's
immediate family.
      (3)   Disclosure of the information would amount to revealing a news
source, privileged under Ohio R.C. 2739.04 or 2739.12.
      (4)   Disclosure of the information would amount to disclosure by a
member of the ordained clergy of an organized religious body of a confidential
communication made to that member of the clergy in that member’s capacity as a
member of the clergy by a person seeking the aid or counsel of that member of
the clergy.
      (5)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of the actor’s duties in connection with a bona fide
program of treatment or services for persons with drug dependencies or persons
in danger of drug dependence, which program is maintained or conducted by a
hospital, clinic, person, agency, or community addiction services provider
whose alcohol and drug addiction services are certified pursuant to R.C. §
5119.36.
      (6)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of the actor’s duties in connection with a bona fide
program for providing counseling services to victims of crimes that are
violations of R.C. § 2907.02 or R.C. § 2907.05 or to victims of felonious
sexual penetration in violation of former R.C. § 2907.12. As used in this
division, “counseling services” include services provided in an informal
setting by a person who, by education or experience, is competent to provide
those services.
    (H)   No disclosure of information pursuant to this section gives rise to
any liability or recrimination for a breach of privilege or confidence.
   (I)   Whoever violates subsection (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of
failure to report a crime. Violation of subsection (A)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Violation of subsection (A)(2) or (B) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (J)   Whoever violates subsection (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of
failure to report knowledge of a death, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (K)   (1)   Whoever negligently violates subsection (E) of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever knowingly violates subsection (E) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (L)   As used in this section, "nurse" includes an advanced practice
registered nurse, registered nurse, and licensed practical nurse. (ORC 2921.22)
§ 131.03 FAILURE TO AID A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall negligently fail or refuse to aid a law enforcement
officer, when called upon for assistance in preventing or halting the
commission of an offense, or in apprehending or detaining an offender, when
such aid can be given without a substantial risk of physical harm to the person
giving it.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to aid a law
enforcement officer, a minor misdemeanor. (R.C. § 2921.23) (Ord. 1839, passed
4-23-74) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.04 OBSTRUCTING OFFICIAL BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so and with purpose to prevent,
obstruct or delay the performance by a public official of any authorized act
within the public official’s official capacity, shall do any act that hampers
or impedes a public official in the performance of the public official’s lawful
duties.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing official
business. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection (B), obstructing
official business is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If a violation of this
section creates a risk of physical harm to any person, obstructing official
business is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law. (ORC
2921.31)
§ 131.05 OBSTRUCTING JUSTICE.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to hinder the discovery, apprehension,
prosecution, conviction, or punishment of another for a misdemeanor, or to
assist another to benefit from the commission of a misdemeanor, and no person,
with purpose to hinder the discovery, apprehension, prosecution, adjudication
as a delinquent child, or disposition of a child for an act that if committed
by an adult would be a misdemeanor or to assist a child to benefit from the
commission of an act that if committed by an adult would be a misdemeanor,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Harbor or conceal the other person or child;
      (2)   Provide the other person or child with money, transportation, a
weapon, a disguise, or other means of avoiding discovery or apprehension;
      (3)   Warn the other person or child of impending discovery or
apprehension;
      (4)   Destroy or conceal physical evidence of the misdemeanor, or act, or
induce any person to withhold testimony or information or to elude legal
process summoning the person to testify or supply evidence;
      (5)   Communicate false information to any person.
      (6)   Prevent or obstruct any person, by means of force, intimidation, or
deception, from performing any act to aid in the discovery, apprehension, or
prosecution of the other person or child.
   (B)   A person may be prosecuted for, and may be convicted of or adjudicated
a delinquent child for committing, a violation of subsection (a) hereof,
regardless of whether the person or child aided ultimately is apprehended for,
is charged with, is convicted of, pleads guilty to, or is adjudicated a
delinquent child for committing the crime or act the person or child aided
committed. The crime or act the person or child aided committed shall be used
under subsection (C) hereof in determining the penalty for the violation of
subsection (A) hereof, regardless of whether the person or child aided
ultimately is apprehended for, is charged with, is convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or is adjudicated a delinquent child for committing the crime or act the
person or child aided committed.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing justice.
      (2)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a misdemeanor or if
the act committed by the child aided would be a misdemeanor if committed by an
adult, obstructing justice is a misdemeanor of the same degree as the
misdemeanor committed by the person aided or a misdemeanor of the same degree
that the act committed by the child aided would be if committed by an adult.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Adult” and “child” have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C.
2151.011.
      (2)   “Delinquent child” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2152.02.
(ORC 2921.32)
§ 131.06 RESISTING ARREST.
   (A)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of himself, herself or another.
   (B)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person and, during the course of or as a
result of the resistance or interference, cause physical harm to a law
enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person if either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The offender, during the course of or as a result of the resistance
or interference, recklessly causes physical harm to a law enforcement officer
by means of a deadly weapon; or
      (2)   The offender, during the course of the resistance or interference,
brandishes a deadly weapon.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of resisting arrest. A
violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, DEADLY WEAPON has the same meaning as in §
137.01 and R.C. § 2923.11.
(R.C. § 2921.33) (Ord. 1839, passed 4-23-74) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.07 PERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he is facilitating
a fraud, or with purpose to induce another to purchase property or services,
shall personate a law enforcement officer, or an inspector, investigator, or
agent of any governmental agency.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of personating an officer, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. (R.C. § 2913.44) (Ord. 1839, passed 4-23-74)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.08 IMPERSONATION OF PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) of this section, a person or entity
may conduct a raffle to raise money for the person or entity and does not need
a license to conduct bingo in order to conduct a raffle drawing that is not for
profit if the person or entity is any of the following:
         (a)   Exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
         (b)   A school district, community school established under R.C.
Chapter 3314, STEM school established under R.C. Chapter 3326, college-
preparatory boarding school established under R.C. Chapter 3328, or chartered
nonpublic school;
         (c)   Exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(4), 501(c)(6), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or
501(c)(19).
      (2)   If a person or entity that is described in division (A)(1)(c) of
this section conducts a raffle, the person or entity shall distribute at least
50% of the net profit from the raffle to a charitable purpose described in R.C.
§ 2915.01(V) or to a department or agency of the federal government, the state,
or any political subdivision.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A) of this section, no person shall
conduct a raffle drawing that is for profit or a raffle drawing that is not for
profit.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegal
conduct of a raffle. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal
conduct of a raffle is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (B) of this section,
illegal conduct of a raffle is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2915.092)
§ 131.09 ASSAULTING POLICE DOG OR HORSE OR AN ASSISTANCE DOG.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
a police dog or horse in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in
the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical harm
is caused or attempted.
      (2)   The police dog or horse is not assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical
harm is caused or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge that the dog
or horse is a police dog or horse.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike a police dog or horse;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at a police dog or horse;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct a police dog or horse, or interfere with
or obstruct a law enforcement officer who is being assisted by a police dog or
horse, in a manner that does any of the following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the law enforcement officer’s control of
the police dog or horse;
         (b)   Deprives the law enforcement officer of control of the police
dog or horse;
         (c)   Releases the police dog or horse from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the police dog or horse without
the consent of the law enforcement officer, including placing food or any other
object or substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the police dog or horse to
assist a law enforcement officer.
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to a police dog or horse.
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger a police dog or horse that at the time of the conduct, the
police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in the performance
of the officer’s duties or that the person knows is a police dog or horse.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
an assistance dog in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The dog, at the time the physical harm is caused or attempted, is
assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment.
      (2)   The dog, at the time the physical harm is caused or attempted, is
not assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment, but the offender has actual knowledge that
the dog is an assistance dog.
   (D)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike an assistance dog;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at an assistance dog;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct an assistance dog, or interfere with or
obstruct a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a person with a
mobility impairment who is being assisted or served by an assistance dog, in a
manner that does any of the following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the assisted or served person’s control of
the dog;
         (b)   Deprives the assisted or served person of control of the dog;
         (c)   Releases the dog from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the dog without the consent of the
assisted or served person, including placing food or any other object or
substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the dog to assist the
assisted or served person.
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to an assistance dog;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger an assistance dog that at the time of the conduct is
assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment or that the person knows is an assistance
dog.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates subsection (A) hereof is guilty of assaulting a
police dog or horse. If the violation results in physical harm to the police
dog or horse, assaulting a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the violation does not result in death, serious physical harm, or
physical harm to the police dog or horse, assaulting a police dog or horse is a
misdemeanor of the second degree. If the violation results in death or serious
physical harm to the police dog or horse, such violation is a felony and shall
be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
      (2)   Whoever violates subsection (B) hereof is guilty of harassing a
police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, harassing
a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the violation
results in the death of the police dog or horse or if the violation results in
serious physical harm to the police dog or horse but does not result in its
death, harassing a police dog or horse is a felony and shall be prosecuted
under appropriate State law. If the violation results in physical harm to the
police dog or horse but does not result in its death or in serious physical
harm to it, harassing a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (3)   Whoever violates subsection (C) hereof is guilty of assaulting an
assistance dog. If the violation results in physical harm to the dog other than
death or serious physical harm, assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the violation does not result in death, serious
physical harm, or physical harm to the dog, assaulting an assistance dog is a
misdemeanor of the second degree. If the violation results in death or serious
physical harm to the dog, such violation is a felony and shall be prosecuted
under appropriate State law.
      (4)   Whoever violates subsection (D) of this section is guilty of
harassing an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection,
harassing an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in the death of or serious physical harm to the assistance
dog but does not result in its death, harassing an assistance dog is a felony
and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law. If the violation results
in physical harm to the assistance dog but does not result in its death or in
serious physical harm to it, harassing an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (5)   In addition to any other sanction or penalty imposed for the
offense under this section, whoever violates subsection (A), (B), (C) or (D) of
this section is responsible for the payment of all of the following:
         (a)   Any veterinary bill or bill for medication incurred as a result
of the violation by the police department regarding a violation of division (A)
or (B) of this section or by the person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired
or the person with a mobility impairment assisted or served by the assistance
dog regarding a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section;
         (b)   The cost of any damaged equipment that results from the
violation;
         (c)   If the violation did not result in the death of the police dog
or horse or the assistance dog that was the subject of the violation and if, as
a result of that dog or horse being the subject of the violation, the dog or
horse needs further training or retraining to be able to continue in the
capacity of a police dog or horse or an assistance dog, the cost of any further
training or retraining of that dog or horse by a law enforcement officer or by
the person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or the person with a
mobility impairment assisted or served by the assistance dog;
         (d)   If the violation resulted in the death of the assistance dog
that was the subject of the violation or resulted in serious physical harm to
the police dog or horse or the assistance dog or horse that was the subject of
the violation to the extent that the dog or horse needs to be replaced on
either a temporary or a permanent basis, the cost of replacing that dog or
horse and of any further training of a new police dog or horse or a new
assistance dog by a law enforcement officer or by the person who is blind,
deaf, or hearing impaired or the person with a mobility impairment assisted or
served by the assistance dog, which replacement or training is required because
of the death of or the serious physical harm to the dog or horse that was the
subject of the violation.
   (F)   This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian whose conduct
is in accordance with Ohio R.C. Chapter 4741.
   (G)   This section only applies to an offender who knows or should know at
the time of the violation that the police dog or horse or assistance dog that
is the subject of a violation under this section is a police dog or horse or
assistance dog.
   (H)   As used in this section:
      ASSISTANCE DOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      BLIND. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      PERSON WITH A MOBILITY IMPAIRMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
955.011.
      PHYSICAL HARM. Means any injury, illness, or other psychological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
      POLICE DOG OR HORSE. Means a dog or horse that has been trained and may
be used to assist law enforcement officers in the performance of their official
duties.
      SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death.
         (b)   Any physical harm that causes permanent maiming or that involves
some temporary, substantial maiming.
         (c)   Any physical harm that causes acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering.
(R.C. § 2921.321)
§ 131.10 FALSE ALLEGATION OF PEACE OFFICER MISCONDUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section, “peace officer” has the same meaning as in
Ohio R.C. 2935.01.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly file a complaint against a peace officer
that alleges that the peace officer engaged in misconduct in the performance of
the officer’s duties if the person knows that the allegation is false.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making a false allegation
of peace officer misconduct, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 2921.15)
§ 131.11 REFUSAL TO DISCLOSE PERSONAL INFORMATION IN PUBLIC PLACE.
   (A)   No person who is in a public place shall refuse to disclose the
person’s name, address, or date of birth, when requested by a law enforcement
officer who reasonably suspects either of the following:
      (1)   The person is committing, has committed, or is about to commit a
criminal offense.
      (2)   The person witnessed any of the following:
         (a)   An offense of violence that would constitute a felony under the
laws of this State;
         (b)   A felony offense that causes or results in, or creates a
substantial risk of, serious physical harm to another person or to property;
         (c)   Any attempt or conspiracy to commit, or complicity in
committing, any offense identified in subsection (A)(2)(a) or (b) of this
section;
         (d)   Any conduct reasonably indicating that any offense identified in
subsection (A)(2)(a) or (b) of this section or any attempt, conspiracy, or
complicity described in subsection (A)(2)(c) of this section has been, is
being, or is about to be committed.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to disclose one’s
personal information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (C)   Nothing in this section requires a person to answer any questions
beyond that person’s name, address, or date of birth. Nothing in this section
authorizes a law enforcement officer to arrest a person for not providing any
information beyond that person’s name, address, or date of birth or for
refusing to describe the offense observed.
   (D)   It is not a violation of this section to refuse to answer a question
that would reveal a person’s age or date of birth if age is an element of the
crime that the person is suspected of committing. (ORC 2921.29)
CHAPTER 132: GAMBLING OFFENSES
Section
132.01   Definitions
132.02   Gambling
132.03   Operating a gambling house
132.04   Public gaming
132.05   Cheating
132.06   Methods of conducting a bingo game; prohibitions
132.07   Instant bingo conduct
132.08   Raffles
132.09   Charitable instant bingo organizations
132.10   Location of instant bingo
132.11   Bingo or game of chance records
132.12   Bingo operator prohibitions
132.13   Bingo exceptions
132.14   Instant bingo conduct by a veteran’s or fraternal organization
132.15   Skill-based amusement machines
§ 132.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   BET. The hazarding of anything of value upon the result of an event,
undertaking, or contingency, but does not include a bona fide business risk.
   BINGO. Either of the following:
      (1)   A game with all of the following characteristics:
         (a)   The participants use bingo cards or sheets, including paper
formats and electronic representation or image formats, that are divided into
25 spaces arranged in five horizontal and five vertical rows of spaces, with
each space, except the central space, being designated by a combination of a
letter and a number and with the central space being designated as a free
space;
         (b)   The participants cover the spaces on the bingo cards or sheets
that correspond to combinations of letters and numbers that are announced by a
bingo game operator;
         (c)   A bingo game operator announces combinations of letters and
numbers that appear on objects that a bingo game operator selects by chance,
either manually or mechanically, from a receptacle that contains 75 objects at
the beginning of each game, each object marked by a different combination of a
letter and a number that corresponds to one of the 75 possible combinations of
a letter and a number that can appear on the bingo cards or sheets;
         (d)   The winner of the bingo game includes any participant who
properly announces during the interval between the announcements of letters and
numbers, as described in division (1)(c) of this definition, that a
predetermined and pre-announced pattern of spaces has been covered on a bingo
card or sheet being used by the participant.
      (2)   Instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, and raffles.
   BINGO GAME OPERATOR. Any person, except security personnel, who performs
work or labor at the site of bingo including but not limited to collecting
money from participants, handing out bingo cards or sheets or objects to cover
spaces on bingo cards or sheets, selecting from a receptacle the objects that
contain the combination of letters and numbers that appear on bingo cards or
sheets, calling out the combinations of letters and numbers, distributing
prizes, selling or redeeming instant bingo tickets or cards, selling or
redeeming electronic instant bingo tickets, credits, or vouchers, accessing an
electronic instant bingo system other than as a participant, supervising the
operation of a punch board, selling raffle tickets, selecting raffle tickets
from a receptacle and announcing the winning numbers in a raffle, and
preparing, selling, and serving food or beverages. “Bingo game operator” does
not include a person who is installing, maintaining, updating, or repairing an
electronic instant bingo system.
   BINGO SESSION. A period that includes both of the following:
      (1)   Not to exceed five continuous hours for the conduct of one or more
games described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section,
instant bingo, and electronic instant bingo;
      (2)   A period for the conduct of instant bingo and electronic instant
bingo for not more than two hours before and not more than two hours after the
period described in division (1) of this definition.
   BINGO SUPPLIES. Bingo cards or sheets; instant bingo tickets or cards;
electronic bingo aids; raffle tickets; punch boards; seal cards; instant bingo
ticket dispensers; electronic instant bingo systems; and devices for selecting
or displaying the combination of bingo letters and numbers or raffle tickets.
Items that are “bingo supplies” are not gambling devices if sold or otherwise
provided, and used, in accordance with this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915. For
purposes of this chapter, “bingo supplies” are not to be considered equipment
used to conduct a bingo game.
   BOOKMAKING. The business of receiving or paying off bets.
   CHAMBER OF COMMERCE. Any organization of individuals, professionals, and
businesses that has the purpose to advance the commercial, financial,
industrial, and civic interests of the community and that is, and has received
from the Internal Revenue Service a determination letter that currently is in
effect stating that the organization is, exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(6).
   CHARITABLE BINGO GAME. Any bingo game described in divisions (1) or (2) of
the definition of “bingo” in this section that is conducted by a charitable
organization that has obtained a license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08 and the
proceeds of which are used for a charitable purpose.
   CHARITABLE INSTANT BINGO ORGANIZATION. An organization that is exempt from
federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3) and
is a charitable organization as defined in this section. The term does not
include a charitable organization that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3) and that is created by a
veteran’s organization, a fraternal organization, or a sporting organization in
regards to bingo conducted or assisted by a veteran’s organization, a fraternal
organization, or a sporting organization pursuant to R.C. § 2915.13, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, “charitable
organization” means either of the following:
         (a)   An organization that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
         (b)   A volunteer rescue service organization, volunteer firefighter’s
organization, veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §§ 501(c)
(4), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19).
      (2)   To qualify as a charitable organization, an organization shall have
been in continuous existence as such in this state for a period of two years
immediately preceding either the making of an application for a bingo license
under R.C. § 2915.08 or the conducting of any game of chance as provided in
R.C. § 2915.02(D), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE PURPOSE. Means that the net profit of bingo, other than instant
bingo or electronic instant bingo, is used by, or is given, donated, or
otherwise transferred to, any of the following:
      (1)   Any organization that is described in IRC §§ 509(a)(1), 509(a)(2),
or 509(a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization that is tax
exempt under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
      (2)   A veteran’s organization that is a post, chapter, or organization
of veterans, or an auxiliary unit or society of, or a trust or foundation for,
any such post, chapter, or organization organized in the United States or any
of its possessions, at least 75% of the members of which are veterans and
substantially all of the other members of which are individuals who are
spouses, widows, or widowers of veterans, or such individuals, provided that no
part of the net earnings of such post, chapter, or organization inures to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual, and further provided that the
net profit is used by the post, chapter, or organization for the charitable
purposes set forth in R.C. § 5739.02(B)(12), is used for awarding scholarships
to or for attendance at an institution mentioned in that division of the Ohio
Revised Code, is donated to a governmental agency, or is used for nonprofit
youth activities, the purchase of United States or Ohio flags that are donated
to schools, youth groups, or other bona fide nonprofit organizations, promotion
of patriotism, or disaster relief;
      (3)   A fraternal organization that has been in continuous existence in
this state for 15 years and that uses the net profit exclusively for religious,
charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes, or for the
prevention of cruelty to children or animals, if contributions for such use
would qualify as a deductible charitable contribution under IRC § 170;
      (4)   A volunteer firefighter’s organization that uses the net profit for
the purposes set forth in the definition of “volunteer firefighter’s
organization” in this section.
   COMMUNITY ACTION AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 122.66.
   CONDUCT. To back, promote, organize, manage, carry on, sponsor, or prepare
for the operation of bingo or a game of chance, a scheme of chance, or a
sweepstakes.
   DEAL. A single game of instant bingo tickets, or a single game of electronic
instant bingo tickets, all with the same serial number.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person who purchases or obtains bingo supplies and who does
either of the following:
      (1)   Sells, offers for sale, or otherwise provides or offers to provide
the bingo supplies to another person for use in this state;
      (2)   Modifies, converts, adds to, or removes parts from the bingo
supplies to further their promotion or sale for use in this state.
   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID.
      (1)   An electronic device used by a participant to monitor bingo cards
or sheets purchased at the time and place of a bingo session and that does all
of the following:
         (a)   It provides a means for a participant to input numbers and
letters announced by a bingo caller.
         (b)   It compares the numbers and letters entered by the participant
to the bingo faces previously stored in the memory of the device.
         (c)   It identifies a winning bingo pattern.
      (2)   The term does not include any device into which a coin, currency,
token, or an equivalent is inserted to activate play.
   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO.
      (1)   A form of bingo that consists of an electronic or digital
representation of instant bingo in which a participant wins a prize if the
participant’s electronic instant bingo ticket contains a combination of numbers
or symbols that was designated in advance as a winning combination, and to
which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Each deal has a predetermined, finite number of winning and
losing tickets and a predetermined prize amount and deal structure, provided
that there may be multiple winning combinations in each deal and multiple
winning tickets.
         (b)   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal has a unique
serial number that is not regenerated.
         (c)   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal is sold for
the same price.
         (d)   After a participant purchases an electronic instant bingo
ticket, the combination of numbers or symbols on the ticket is revealed to the
participant.
         (e)   The reveal of numbers or symbols on the ticket may incorporate
an entertainment or bonus theme, provided that the reveal does not include
spinning reels that resemble a slot machine.
         (f)   The reveal theme, if any, does not require additional
consideration or award any prize other than any predetermined prize associated
with the electronic instant bingo ticket.
      (2)   The term shall not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any game, entertainment, or bonus theme that replicates or
simulates any of the following:
            1.   The gambling games of keno, blackjack, roulette, poker, craps,
other casino-style table games;
            2.   Horse racing;
            3.   Gambling games offered in this state on slot machines or video
lottery terminals. As used in this division, “video lottery terminal” has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
         (b)   Any device operated by dropping one or more coins or tokens into
a slot and pulling a handle or pushing a button or touchpoint on a touchscreen
to activate one to three or more rotating reels marked into horizontal segments
by varying symbols, where the predetermined prize amount depends on how and how
many of the symbols line up when the rotating reels come to a rest;
         (c)   Any device that includes a coin or token slot, tray, or hopper
and the ability to dispense coins, cash, tokens, or anything of value other
than a credit ticket voucher.
   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO SYSTEM. Means both of the following:
      (1)   A mechanical, electronic, digital, or video device and associated
software to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   It is used by not more than one player at a time to play
electronic instant bingo on a single screen that is physically connected to the
device;
         (b)   It is located on the premises of the principal place of business
of a veteran’s or fraternal organization that holds a type II or type III bingo
license to conduct electronic instant bingo at that location issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08.
      (2)   Any associated equipment or software used to manage, monitor, or
document any aspect of electronic instant bingo.
   EXPENSES. The reasonable amount of gross profit actually expended for all of
the following:
      (1)   The purchase or lease of bingo supplies;
      (2)   The annual license fee required under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Bank fees and service charges for a bingo session or game account
described in R.C. § 2915.10;
      (4)   Audits and accounting services;
      (5)   Safes;
      (6)   Cash registers;
      (7)   Hiring security personnel;
      (8)   Advertising bingo;
      (9)   Renting premises in which to conduct a bingo session;
      (10)   Tables and chairs;
      (11)   Expenses for maintaining and operating a charitable organization’s
facilities, including but not limited to a post home, club house, lounge,
tavern, or canteen and any grounds attached to the post home, club house,
lounge, tavern, or canteen;
      (12)   Payment of real property taxes and assessments that are levied on
a premises on which bingo is conducted;
      (13)   Any other product or service directly related to the conduct of
bingo that is authorized in rules adopted by the Attorney General under R.C. §
2915.08(F)(1).
   FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. Any society, order, state headquarters, or
association within this state, except a college or high school fraternity, that
is not organized for profit, that is a branch, lodge, or chapter of a national
or state organization, that exists exclusively for the common business or
sodality of its members.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A book, totalizer, or other equipment used for recording bets;
      (2)   A ticket, token, or other device representing a chance, share, or
interest in a scheme of chance or evidencing a bet;
      (3)   A deck of cards, dice, gaming table, roulette wheel, slot machine,
or other apparatus designed for use in connection with a game of chance;
      (4)   Any equipment, device, apparatus, or paraphernalia specially
designed for gambling purposes;
      (5)   Bingo supplies sold or otherwise provided, or used, in violation of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   GAMBLING OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. Chapter 2915;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 or a violation of R.C. § 2915.06
as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or of the United States, of which gambling is an
element;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   GAME FLARE. The board or placard, or electronic representation of a board or
placard, that accompanies each deal of instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo tickets and that includes the following information for the game:
      (1)   The name of the game;
      (2)   The manufacturer’s name or distinctive logo;
      (3)   The form number;
      (4)   The ticket count;
      (5)   The prize structure, including the number of winning tickets by
denomination and the respective winning symbol or number combinations for the
winning tickets;
      (6)   The cost per play;
      (7)   The serial number of the game.
   GAME OF CHANCE. Poker, craps, roulette, or other game in which a player
gives anything of value in the hope of gain, the outcome of which is determined
largely by chance, but does not include bingo.
   GAME OF CHANCE CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. Any game of chance designed to produce
income for the person who conducts or operates the game of chance, but does not
include bingo.
   GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES. The annual gross receipts derived from the conduct of
bingo described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section
plus the annual net profit derived from the conduct of bingo
described in division (2) of the definition of “bingo” in this section.
   GROSS PROFIT. Gross receipts minus the amount actually expended for the
payment of prize awards.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. All money or assets, including admission fees, that a person
receives from bingo without the deduction of any amounts for prizes paid out or
for the expenses of conducting bingo. The term does not include any money
directly taken in from the sale of food or beverages by a charitable
organization conducting bingo, or by a bona fide auxiliary unit or society of a
charitable organization conducting bingo, provided all of the following apply:
      (1)   The auxiliary unit or society has been in existence as a bona fide
auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization for at least two years
prior to conducting bingo.
      (2)   The person who purchases the food or beverage receives nothing of
value except the food or beverage and items customarily received with the
purchase of that food or beverage.
      (3)   The food and beverages are sold at customary and reasonable prices.
   HISTORIC RAILROAD. All or a portion of the tracks and right-of-way of a
railroad that was owned and operated by a for profit common carrier in this
state at any time prior to January 1, 1950.
   INSTANT BINGO. A form of bingo that shall use folded or banded tickets or
paper cards with perforated break-open tabs, a face of which is covered or
otherwise hidden from view to conceal a number, letter, or symbol, or set of
numbers, letters, or symbols, some of which have been designated in advance as
prize winners, and may also include games in which some winners are determined
by the random selection of one or more bingo numbers by the use of a seal card
or bingo blower. “Instant bingo” also includes a punch board game. In all
“instant bingo” the prize amount and structure shall be predetermined. The term
does not include electronic instant bingo or any device that is activated by
the insertion of a coin, currency, token, or an equivalent, and that contains
as one of its components a video display monitor that is capable of displaying
numbers, letters, symbols, or characters in winning or losing combinations.
   INSTANT BINGO TICKET DISPENSER. A mechanical device that dispenses an
instant bingo ticket or card as the sole item of value dispensed and that has
the following characteristics:
      (1)   It is activated upon the insertion of United States currency.
      (2)   It performs no gaming functions.
      (3)   It does not contain a video display monitor or generate noise.
      (4)   It is not capable of displaying any numbers, letters, symbols, or
characters in winning or losing combinations.
      (5)   It does not simulate or display rolling or spinning reels.
      (6)   It is incapable of determining whether a dispensed bingo ticket or
card is a winning or non-winning ticket or card and requires a winning ticket
or card to be paid by a bingo game operator.
      (7)   It may provide accounting and security features to aid in
accounting for the instant bingo tickets or cards it dispenses.
      (8)   It is not part of an electronic network and is not interactive.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE (IRC). The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 100 Stat.
2085, 26 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person who assembles completed bingo supplies from raw
materials, other items, or subparts or who modifies, converts, adds to, or
removes parts from bingo supplies to further their promotion or sale.
   MERCHANDISE PRIZE. Any item of value, but shall not include any of the
following:
      (1)   Cash, gift cards, or any equivalent thereof;
      (2)   Plays on games of chance, state lottery tickets, or bingo;
      (3)   Firearms, tobacco, or alcoholic beverages; or
      (4)   A redeemable voucher that is redeemable for any of the items listed
in division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   NET PROFIT. Gross profit minus expenses.
   NET PROFIT FROM THE PROCEEDS OF THE SALE OF INSTANT BINGO OR ELECTRONIC
INSTANT BINGO. Gross profit minus the ordinary, necessary, and reasonable
expense expended for the purchase of bingo supplies for the purpose of
conducting instant bingo or electronic instant bingo, and, in the case of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conducted by a veteran’s, fraternal,
or sporting organization, minus the payment by that organization of real
property taxes and assessments levied on a premises on which instant bingo or
electronic instant bingo is conducted.
   PARTICIPANT. Any person who plays bingo.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.59 and includes any firm or any
other legal entity, however organized.
   POOL NOT CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. A scheme in which a participant gives a
valuable consideration for a chance to win a prize and the total amount of
consideration wagered is distributed to a participant or participants.
   PUNCH BOARD. A form of instant bingo that uses a board containing a number
of holes or receptacles of uniform size in which are placed, mechanically and
randomly, serially numbered slips of paper that may be punched or drawn from
the hole or receptacle. A player may punch or draw the numbered slips of paper
from the holes or receptacles and obtain the prize established for the game if
the number drawn corresponds to a winning number or, if the punch board
includes the use of a seal card, a potential winning number.
   RAFFLE. A form of bingo in which the one or more prizes are won by one or
more persons who have purchased a raffle ticket. The one or more winners of the
raffle are determined by drawing a ticket stub or other detachable section from
a receptacle containing ticket stubs or detachable sections corresponding to
all tickets sold for the raffle. The term does not include the drawing of a
ticket stub or other detachable section of a ticket purchased to attend a
professional sporting event if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The ticket stub or other detachable section is used to select the
winner of a free prize given away at the professional sporting event; and
      (2)   The cost of the ticket is the same as the cost of a ticket to the
professional sporting event on days when no free prize is given away.
   REDEEMABLE VOUCHER. Any ticket, token, coupon, receipt, or other noncash
representation of value.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION. Any church, body of communicants, or group that is
not organized or operated for profit and that gathers in common membership for
regular worship and religious observances.
   REVOKE. To void permanently all rights and privileges of the holder of a
license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SCHEME OF CHANCE.
      (1)   A slot machine unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3772, lottery
unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770, numbers game, pool conducted for
profit, or other scheme in which a participant gives a valuable consideration
for a chance to win a prize, but does not include bingo, a skill-based
amusement machine, or a pool not conducted for profit. “Scheme of chance”
includes the use of an electronic device to reveal the results of a game entry
if valuable consideration is paid, directly or indirectly, for a chance to win
a prize. Valuable consideration is deemed to be paid for a chance to win a
prize in the following instances:
         (a)   Less than 50% of the goods or services sold by a scheme of
chance operator in exchange for game entries are used or redeemed by
participants at any one location;
         (b)   Less than 50% of participants who purchase goods or services at
any one location do not accept, use, or redeem the goods or services sold or
purportedly sold;
         (c)   More than 50% of prizes at any one location are revealed to
participants through an electronic device simulating a game of chance or a
“casino game” as defined in R.C. § 3772.01;
         (d)   The good or service sold by a scheme of chance operator in
exchange for a game entry cannot be used or redeemed in the manner advertised;
         (e)   A participant pays more than fair market value for goods or
services offered by a scheme of chance operator in order to receive one or more
game entries;
         (f)   A participant may use the electronic device to purchase
additional game entries;
         (g)   A participant may purchase additional game entries by using
points or credits won as prizes while using the electronic device;
         (h)   A scheme of chance operator pays out in prize money more than
20% of the gross revenue received at one location; or
         (i)   A participant makes a purchase or exchange in order to obtain
any good or service that may be used to facilitate play on the electronic
device.
      (2)   As used in this division, “electronic device” means a mechanical,
video, digital, or electronic machine or device that is capable of displaying
information on a screen or other mechanism and that is owned, leased, or
otherwise possessed by any person conducting a scheme of chance, or by that
person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or contractors. “Electronic
device” does not include an electronic instant bingo system.
   SEAL CARD. A form of instant bingo that uses instant bingo tickets in
conjunction with a board or placard that contains one or more seals that, when
removed or opened, reveal predesignated winning numbers, letters, or symbols.
   SECURITY PERSONNEL. Includes any person who either is a Sheriff, deputy
sheriff, Marshal, deputy marshal, township constable, or member of an organized
police department of a municipal corporation or has successfully completed a
peace officer’s training course pursuant to R.C. §§ 109.71 through 109.79 and
who is hired to provide security for the premises on which bingo is conducted.
   SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINE.
      (1)   (a)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic device that
rewards the player or players, if at all, only with merchandise prizes or with
redeemable vouchers redeemable only for merchandise prizes, provided that with
respect to rewards for playing the game all of the following apply:
            1.   The wholesale value of a merchandise prize awarded as a result
of the single play of a machine does not exceed $10;
            2.    Redeemable vouchers awarded for any single play of a machine
are not redeemable for a merchandise prize with a wholesale value of more than
$10;
            3.    Redeemable vouchers are not redeemable for a merchandise
prize that has a wholesale value of more than $10 times the fewest number of
single plays necessary to accrue the redeemable vouchers required to obtain
that prize; and
            4.   Any redeemable vouchers or merchandise prizes are distributed
at the site of the skill-based amusement machine at the time of play.
         (b)   A card for the purchase of gasoline is a redeemable voucher for
purposes of division (1) of this definition even if the skill-based amusement
machine for the play of which the card is awarded is located at a place where
gasoline may not be legally distributed to the public or the card is not
redeemable at the location of, or at the time of playing, the skill- based
amusement machine.
      (2)   A device shall not be considered a skill-based amusement machine
and shall be considered a slot machine if it pays cash or one or more of the
following apply:
         (a)   The ability of a player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the number or ratio of prior wins to prior losses of players playing the game;
         (b)   Any reward of redeemable vouchers is not based solely on the
player achieving the object of the game or the player’s score;
         (c)   The outcome of the game, or the value of the redeemable voucher
or merchandise prize awarded for winning the game, can be controlled by a
source other than any player playing the game;
         (d)   The success of any player is or may be determined by a chance
event that cannot be altered by player actions;
         (e)   The ability of any player to succeed at the game is determined
by game features not visible or known to the player;
         (f)   The ability of the player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the exercise of a skill that no reasonable player could exercise.
      (3)   All of the following apply to any machine that is operated as
described in division (1) of this definition:
         (a)   As used in this definition of “skill-based amusement machine”,
GAME and PLAY mean one event from the initial activation of the machine until
the results of play are determined without payment of additional consideration.
An individual utilizing a machine that involves a single game, play, contest,
competition, or tournament may be awarded redeemable vouchers or merchandise
prizes based on the results of play.
         (b)   Advance play for a single game, play, contest, competition, or
tournament participation may be purchased. The cost of the contest,
competition, or tournament participation may be greater than a single non-
contest, competition, or tournament play.
         (c)   To the extent that the machine is used in a contest,
competition, or tournament, that contest, competition, or tournament has a
defined starting and ending date and is open to participants in competition for
scoring and ranking results toward the awarding of redeemable vouchers or
merchandise prizes that are stated prior to the start of the contest,
competition, or tournament.
      (4)   For purposes of division (1) of this definition, the mere presence
of a device, such as a pin-setting, ball-releasing, or scoring mechanism, that
does not contribute to or affect the outcome of the play of the game does not
make the device a skill-based amusement machine.
   SLOT MACHINE.
      (1)   Either of the following:
         (a)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player who gives the thing of value in the hope of gain;
         (b)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player to conduct bingo or a scheme or game of chance.
      (2)   The term does not include a skill-based amusement machine, an
instant bingo ticket dispenser, or an electronic instant bingo system.
   SPORTING ORGANIZATION. A hunting, fishing, or trapping organization, other
than a college or high school fraternity or sorority, that is not organized for
profit, that is affiliated with a state or national sporting organization,
including but not limited to the League of Ohio Sportsmen, and that has been in
continuous existence in this state for a period of three years.
   SUSPEND. To interrupt temporarily all rights and privileges of the holder of
a license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SWEEPSTAKES. Any game, contest, advertising scheme or plan, or other
promotion where consideration is not required for a person to enter to win or
become eligible to receive any prize, the determination of which is based upon
chance. “Sweepstakes” does not include bingo as authorized under R.C. Chapter
2915, pari-mutuel wagering as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3769, lotteries
conducted by the State Lottery Commission as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3770,
and casino gaming as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3772.
   SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE.
      (1)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic machine or device that
is owned, leased, or otherwise possessed by any person conducting a
sweepstakes, or by that person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or
contractors, that is intended to be used by a sweepstakes participant, and that
is capable of displaying information on a screen or other mechanism. A device
is a sweepstakes terminal device if any of the following apply:
         (a)   The device uses a simulated game terminal as a representation of
the prizes associated with the results of the sweepstakes entries.
         (b)   The device utilizes software such that the simulated game
influences or determines the winning of or value of the prize.
         (c)   The device selects prizes from a predetermined finite pool of
entries.
         (d)   The device utilizes a mechanism that reveals the content of a
predetermined sweepstakes entry.
         (e)   The device predetermines the prize results and stores those
results for delivery at the time the sweepstakes entry results are revealed.
         (f)   The device utilizes software to create a game result.
         (g)   The device reveals the prize incrementally, even though the
device does not influence the awarding of the prize or the value of any prize
awarded.
         (h)   The device determines and associates the prize with an entry or
entries at the time the sweepstakes is entered.
      (2)   As used in this definition and in §
134.02:
         ENTER. The act by which a person becomes eligible to receive any prize
offered in a sweepstakes.
         ENTRY. One event from the initial activation of the sweepstakes
terminal device until all the sweepstakes prize results from that activation
are revealed.
         PRIZE. Any gift, award, gratuity, good, service, credit, reward, or
any other thing of value that may be transferred to a person, whether
possession of the prize is actually transferred, or placed on an account or
other record as evidence of the intent to transfer the prize.
         SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE FACILITY. Any location in this state where
a sweepstakes terminal device is provided to a sweepstakes participant, except
as provided in §
134.02(G) and R.C. § 2915.02(G).
   VETERAN’S ORGANIZATION. Any individual post or state headquarters of a
national veteran’s association or an auxiliary unit of any individual post of a
national veteran’s association, which post, state headquarters, or auxiliary
unit is incorporated as a nonprofit corporation and either has received a
letter from the state headquarters of the national veteran’s association
indicating that the individual post or auxiliary unit is in good standing with
the national veteran’s association or has received a letter from the national
veteran’s association indicating that the state headquarters is in good
standing with the national veteran’s association. As used in this definition,
NATIONAL VETERAN’S ASSOCIATION means any veteran’s association that has been in
continuous existence as such for a period of at least five years and either is
incorporated by an act of the United States Congress or has a national dues-
paying membership of at least 5,000 persons.
   VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER’S ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteer
firefighters, as defined in R.C. § 146.01, that is organized and operated
exclusively to provide financial support for a volunteer fire department or a
volunteer fire company and that is recognized or ratified by a county,
municipal corporation, or township.
   VOLUNTEER RESCUE SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteers
organized to function as an emergency medical service organization, as defined
in R.C. § 4765.01.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for profit,
that is organized and operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or
to operate, athletic activities for persons who are 21 years of age or younger
by means of sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the support
of an athletic team, club, league, or association.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC PARK ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for
profit, that satisfies both of the following:
      (1)   It owns, operates, and maintains playing fields that satisfy both
of the following:
         (a)   The playing fields are used for athletic activities by one or
more organizations, not organized for profit, each of which is organized and
operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or to operate, athletic
activities for persons who are 18 years of age or younger by means of
sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the support of an
athletic team, club, league, or association.
         (b)   The playing fields are not used for any profit-making activity
at any time during the year.
      (2)   It uses the proceeds of bingo it conducts exclusively for the
operation, maintenance, and improvement of its playing fields of the type
described in division (1) of this definition.
(R.C. § 2915.01)
§ 132.02 GAMBLING.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Engage in bookmaking, or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates bookmaking;
      (2)   Establish, promote, or operate or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance;
      (3)   Knowingly procure, transmit, exchange, or engage in conduct that
facilitates the procurement, transmission, or exchange of information for use
in establishing odds or determining winners in connection with bookmaking or
with any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance;
      (4)   Engage in betting or in playing any scheme or game of chance as a
substantial source of income or livelihood;
      (5)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
and either:
         A.   Give to another person any item described in subsection (vv)(1),
(2), (3) or (4) of Section
132.01 as a prize for playing or participating in a sweepstakes; or
         B.   Give to another person any merchandise prize, or a redeemable
voucher for a merchandise prize, the wholesale value of which is in excess of
ten dollars and which is awarded as a single entry for playing or participating
in a sweepstakes. Redeemable vouchers shall not be redeemable for a merchandise
prize that has a wholesale value of more than ten dollars.
      (6)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
without first obtaining a current annual "certificate of registration" from the
Attorney General as required by division (F) of Ohio R.C. 2915.02.
      (7)   With purpose to violate subsection (a)(1), (2), (3), (4), (5) or
(6) of this section, acquire, possess, control, or operate any gambling device.
   (b)   For purposes of subsection (a)(1) of this section, a person
facilitates bookmaking if the person in any way knowingly aids an illegal
bookmaking operation, including, without limitation, placing a bet with a
person engaged in or facilitating illegal bookmaking. For purposes of
subsection (a)(2) of this section, a person facilitates a game of chance
conducted for profit or a scheme of chance if the person in any way knowingly
aids in the conduct or operation of any such game or scheme, including, without
limitation, playing any such game or scheme.
   (c)   This section does not prohibit conduct in connection with gambling
expressly permitted by law.
   (d)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Games of chance, if all of the following apply:
         A.   The games of chance are not craps for money or roulette for
money.
         B.   The games of chance are conducted by a charitable organization
that is, and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a determination
letter that is currently in effect, stating that the organization is, exempt
from Federal income taxation under subsection 501(a) and described in
subsection 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         C.   The games of chance are conducted at festivals of the charitable
organization that are conducted not more than a total of five days a calendar
year, and are conducted on premises owned by the charitable organization for a
period of no less than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the
games of chance, on premises leased from a governmental unit, or on premises
that are leased from a veteran's or fraternal organization and that have been
owned by the lessor veteran's or fraternal organization for a period of no less
than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the games of chance.
            A charitable organization shall not lease premises from a veteran's
or fraternal organization to conduct a festival described in subsection (d)
(1)C. hereof if the veteran's or fraternal organization has already leased the
premises twelve times during the preceding year to charitable organizations for
that purpose. If a charitable organization leases premises from a veteran's or
fraternal organization to conduct a festival described in subsection (d)(1)C.
hereof, the charitable organization shall not pay a rental rate for the
premises per day of the festival that exceeds the rental rate per bingo session
that a charitable organization may pay under Section
132.06(b)(1) when it leases premises from another charitable organization to
conduct bingo games.
         D.   All of the money or assets received from the games of chance
after deduction only of prizes paid out during the conduct of the games of
chance are used by, or given, donated or otherwise transferred to, any
organization that is described in subsection 509(a)(1), (2) or (3) of the
Internal Revenue Code and is either a governmental unit or an organization that
is tax exempt under subsection 501(a) and described in subsection 501(c)(3) of
the Internal Revenue Code;
         E.   The games of chance are not conducted during, or within ten hours
of, a bingo game conducted for amusement purposes only pursuant to Section
132.13.
         No person shall receive any commission, wage, salary, reward, tip,
donations, gratuity or other form of compensation, directly or indirectly, for
operating or assisting in the operation of any game of chance.
      (2)   Any tag fishing tournament operated under a permit issued under
Ohio R.C. 1533.92, as "tag fishing tournament" is defined in Ohio R.C. 1531.01.
      (3)   Bingo conducted by a charitable organization that holds a license
issued under Ohio R.C. 2915.08.
   (e)   Subsection (d) hereof shall not be construed to authorize the sale,
lease or other temporary or permanent transfer of the right to conduct games of
chance, as granted by subsection (d) hereof, by any charitable organization
that is granted that right.
   (f)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of gambling, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a gambling
offense, gambling is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State
law.
(ORC 2915.02)
§ 132.03 OPERATING A GAMBLING HOUSE.
   (a)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control or
supervision of premises, shall:
      (1)   Use or occupy such premises for gambling in violation of Section
132.02;
      (2)   Recklessly permit such premises to be used or occupied for gambling
in violation of Section
132.02.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a gambling house,
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a gambling offense, operating a gambling house is a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
   (c)   Premises used or occupied in violation of this section constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 3767.
(ORC 2915.03)
§ 132.04 PUBLIC GAMING.
   (a)   No person, while at a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall,
or other place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall
make a bet or play any game of chance or scheme of chance.
   (b)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision, of a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other place
of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall recklessly permit
those premises to be used or occupied in violation of subsection (a) of this
section.
   (c)   Subsections (a) and (b) of this section do not prohibit conduct in
connection with gambling expressly permitted by law.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public gaming. Except as
otherwise provided in this subsection, public gaming is a minor misdemeanor. If
the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling offense, public
gaming is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (e)   Premises used or occupied in violation of subsection (b) of this
section constitute a nuisance subject to abatement under Ohio R.C. Chapter
3767. (ORC 2915.04)
§ 132.05 CHEATING.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome
of any of the following:
      (1)   The subject of a bet;
      (2)   A contest of knowledge, skill, or endurance that is not an athletic
or sporting event;
      (3)   A scheme or game of chance;
      (4)   Bingo.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of cheating. Except as
otherwise provided in this subsection cheating is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the potential gain from the cheating is one thousand dollars
($1,000) or more, or if the offender previously has been convicted of any
gambling offense or of any theft offense as defined in Ohio R.C. 2913.01,
cheating is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law. (ORC
2915.05)
§ 132.06 METHODS OF CONDUCTING A BINGO GAME; PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo shall fail to do any of
the following:
      (1)   Own all of the equipment used to conduct bingo or lease that
equipment from a charitable organization that is licensed to conduct bingo, or
from the landlord of a premises where bingo is conducted, for a rental rate
that is not more than is customary and reasonable for that equipment;
      (2)   Use, or give, donate, or otherwise transfer, all of the net profit
derived from bingo described in R.C. § 2915.01(O)(1) for a charitable purpose
listed in its license application and described in R.C. § 2915.01(V), or
distribute all of the net profit from the proceeds of the sale of instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo as stated in its license application and in
accordance with R.C. § 2915.101, as applicable.
   (b)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
Section
132.01(o)(1) shall fail to do any of the following:
      (1)   Conduct the bingo game on premises that are owned by the charitable
organization, on premises that are owned by another charitable organization and
leased from that charitable organization for a rental rate not in excess of the
lesser of six hundred dollars ($600.00) per bingo session or forty-five per
cent of the gross receipts of the bingo session, on premises that are leased
from a person other than a charitable organization for a rental rate that is
not more than is customary and reasonable for premises that are similar in
location, size, and quality but not in excess of four hundred fifty dollars
($450.00) per bingo session, or on premises that are owned by a person other
than a charitable organization, that are leased from that person by another
charitable organization, and that are subleased from that other charitable
organization by the charitable organization for a rental rate not in excess of
four hundred fifty dollars ($450.00) per bingo session. No charitable
organization is required to pay property taxes or assessments on premises that
the charitable organization leases from another person to conduct bingo
sessions. If the charitable organization leases from a person other than a
charitable organization the premises on which it conducts bingo sessions, the
lessor of the premises shall provide the premises to the organization and shall
not provide the organization with bingo game operators, security personnel,
concessions or concession operators, bingo supplies, or any other type of
service. A charitable organization shall not lease or sublease premises that it
owns or leases to more than three other charitable organizations per calendar
week for conducting bingo sessions on the premises. A person that is not a
charitable organization shall not lease premises that it owns, leases, or
otherwise is empowered to lease to more than three charitable organizations per
calendar week for conducting bingo sessions on the premises. In no case shall
more than nine bingo sessions be conducted on any premises in any calendar
week.
      (2)   Display its license conspicuously at the premises where the bingo
session is conducted;
      (3)   Conduct the bingo session in accordance with the definition of
bingo set forth in Section
132.01(s)(1).
   (c)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
Section
132.01(o)(1) shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for operating a bingo
session that is conducted by the charitable organization or for preparing,
selling, or serving food or beverages at the site of the bingo session, permit
any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to pay
compensation to any bingo game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or
beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable organization, or
permit any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to prepare,
sell, or serve food or beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable
organization, if the auxiliary unit or society pays any compensation to the
bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or serve the food or beverages;
      (2)   Pay consulting fees to any person for any services performed in
relation to the bingo session;
      (3)   Pay concession fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in the bingo session;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (c)(4) of this section,
conduct more than three bingo sessions in any seven-day period. A volunteer
firefighter's organization or a volunteer rescue service organization that
conducts not more than five bingo sessions in a calendar year may conduct more
than three bingo sessions in a seven-day period after notifying the Attorney
General when it will conduct the sessions;
      (5)   Pay out more than six thousand dollars ($6,000) in prizes for bingo
games described in Section
 132.01(o)(1) during any bingo session that is conducted by the charitable
organization. "Prizes" does not include awards from the conduct of instant
bingo;
      (6)   Conduct a bingo session at any time during the eight-hour period
between two a.m. and ten a.m., at any time during, or within ten hours of, a
bingo game conducted for amusement only pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2915.12, at any
premises not specified on its license, or on any day of the week or during any
time period not specified on its license. Subsection (c)(6) of this section
does not prohibit the sale of instant bingo tickets beginning at nine a.m. for
a bingo session that begins at ten a.m. If circumstances make it impractical
for the charitable organization to conduct a bingo session at the premises, or
on the day of the week or at the time, specified on its license or if a
charitable organization wants to conduct bingo sessions on a day of the week or
at a time other than the day or time specified on its license, the charitable
organization may apply in writing to the Attorney General for an amended
license, pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08(J). A charitable organization may apply
twice in each calendar year for an amended license to conduct bingo sessions on
a day of the week or at a time other than the day or time specified on its
license. If the amended license is granted, the organization may conduct bingo
sessions at the premises, on the day of the week, and at the time specified on
its amended license;
      (7)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, is under the age of eighteen to work as a bingo game operator;
      (8)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any
jurisdiction to be a bingo game operator;
      (9)   Permit the lessor of the premises on which the bingo session is
conducted, if the lessor is not a charitable organization, to provide the
charitable organization with bingo game operators, security personnel,
concessions, bingo supplies, or any other type of service;
      (10)   Purchase or lease bingo supplies from any person except a
distributor issued a license under Ohio R.C. 2915.081;
      (11)   A.   Use or permit the use of electronic bingo aids except under
the following circumstances:
            1.   For any single participant, not more than ninety bingo faces
can be played using an electronic bingo aid or aids.
            2.   The charitable organization shall provide a participant using
an electronic bingo aid with corresponding paper bingo cards or sheets.
            3.   The total price of bingo faces played with an electronic bingo
aid shall be equal to the total price of the same number of bingo faces played
with a paper bingo card or sheet sold at the same bingo session but without an
electronic bingo aid.
            4.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be part of an electronic
network other than a network that includes only bingo aids and devices that are
located on the premises at which the bingo is being conducted or be interactive
with any device not located on the premises at which the bingo is being
conducted.
            5.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to participate in bingo
that is conducted at a location other than the location at which the bingo
session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
            6.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to provide for the
input of numbers and letters announced by a bingo caller other than the bingo
caller who physically calls the numbers and letters at the location at which
the bingo session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
         B.   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with Ohio R.C.
Chapter 119 that govern the use of electronic bingo aids. The rules may include
a requirement that an electronic bingo aid be capable of being audited by the
Attorney General to verify the number of bingo cards or sheets played during
each bingo session.
      (12)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, to be under eighteen years of age to play bingo described in
Section
132.01(o)(1).
   (d)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (d)(3) hereof, no
charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator, and no bingo
game operator shall receive or accept, any commission, wage, salary, reward,
tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation, directly or indirectly,
regardless of the source, for conducting bingo or providing other work or labor
at the site of bingo during a bingo session.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (d)(3) of this section, no
charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator any commission,
wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation,
directly or indirectly regardless of the source, for conducting instant bingo,
electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session at the site of
instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session.
      (3)   Nothing in subsection (d) hereof prohibits an employee of a
fraternal organization, veteran’s organization, or sporting organization from
selling instant bingo tickets or cards to the organization’s members or invited
guests, as long as no portion of the employee’s compensation is paid from any
receipts of bingo.
   (e)   Notwithstanding subsection (b)(1) of this section, a charitable
organization that, prior to December 6, 1977, has entered into written
agreements for the lease of premises it owns to another charitable organization
or other charitable organizations for the conducting of bingo sessions so that
more than two bingo sessions are conducted per calendar week on the premises,
and a person that is not a charitable organization and that, prior to December
6, 1977, has entered into written agreements for the lease of premises it owns
to charitable organizations for the conducting of more than two bingo sessions
per calendar week on the premises, may continue to lease the premises to those
charitable organizations, provided that no more than four sessions are
conducted per calendar week, that the lessor organization or person has
notified the Attorney General in writing of the organizations that will conduct
the sessions and the days of the week and the times of the day on which the
sessions will be conducted, that the initial lease entered into with each
organization that will conduct the sessions was filed with the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977, and that each organization that will conduct the
sessions was issued a license to conduct bingo games by the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977.
   (f)   This section does not prohibit a bingo licensed charitable
organization or a game operator from giving any person an instant bingo ticket
as a prize.
   (g)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates
subsection (a)(1) or (2), (b)(1), (2), or (3), (c)(1) to (11) or (d) of this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of subsection (a)(1) or (2), (b)(1), (2) or (3), (c)
(1) to (11), or (d) of this section, a violation of subsection (a)(1) or (2),
(b)(1), (2) or (3) or (c)(1) to (11) or (d) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. Whoever violates subsection (c)(12) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of subsection (c)(12) of this section, a violation of
subsection (c)(12) is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State
law. (ORC 2915.09)
§ 132.07 INSTANT BINGO CONDUCT.
   (a)   No charitable organization that conducts instant bingo shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with the requirements of divisions (A)(1), (2), and
(3) of Ohio R.C. 2915.09;
      (2)   Conduct instant bingo unless either of the following applies:
         A.   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under subsection 501(a),
is described in subsection 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, is a
charitable organization as defined in Section
132.01, is in good standing in the State pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2915.08, and is
in compliance with Ohio R.C. Chapter 1716;
         B.   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under subsection 501(a),
is described in subsection 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or 501(c)(19) or is a
veteran’s organization described in subsection 501(c)(4) of the Internal
Revenue Code, and conducts instant bingo under Section
132.14.
      (3)   Conduct instant bingo on any day, at any time, or at any premises
not specified on the organization's license issued pursuant to Ohio R.C.
2915.08;
      (4)   Permit any person whom the organization knows or should have known
has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction to be a
bingo game operator in the conduct of instant bingo;
      (5)   Purchase or lease supplies used to conduct instant bingo or punch
board games from any person except a distributor licensed under Ohio R.C.
2915.081;
      (6)   Sell or provide any instant bingo ticket or card for a price
different from the price printed on it by the manufacturer on either the
instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare;
      (7)   Sell an instant bingo ticket or card to a person under eighteen
years of age;
      (8)   Fail to keep unsold instant bingo tickets or cards for less than
three years;
      (9)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting
instant bingo that is conducted by the organization or for preparing, selling,
or serving food or beverages at the site of the instant bingo game, permit any
auxiliary unit or society of the organization to pay compensation to any bingo
game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or beverages at an instant
bingo game conducted by the organization, or permit any auxiliary unit or
society of the organization to prepare, sell, or serve food or beverages at an
instant bingo game conducted by the organization, if the auxiliary unit or
society pays any compensation to the bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or
serve the food or beverages;
      (10)   Pay fees to any person for any services performed in relation to
an instant bingo game, except as provided in Section
 132.09(d);
      (11)   Pay fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in an instant bingo game;
      (12)   A.   Allow instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold to bingo game
operators at a premises at which the organization sells instant bingo tickets
or cards or to be sold to employees of a D permit holder who are working at a
premises at which instant bingo tickets or cards are sold;
         B.   Subsection (a)(12)A. of this section does not prohibit a licensed
charitable organization or a bingo game operator from giving any person an
instant bingo ticket as a prize in place of a cash prize won by a participant
in an instant bingo game. In no case shall an instant bingo ticket or card be
sold or provided for a price different from the price printed on it by the
manufacturer on either the instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare.
      (13)   Fail to display its bingo license, and the serial numbers of the
deal of instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold, conspicuously at each
premises at which it sells instant bingo tickets or cards;
      (14)   Possess a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards that was not
purchased from a distributor licensed under Ohio R.C. 2915.081 as reflected on
an invoice issued by the distributor that contains all of the information
required by Section
132.11(e);
      (15)   Fail, once it opens a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards, to
continue to sell the tickets or cards in that deal until the tickets or cards
with the top two highest tiers of prizes in that deal are sold;
      (16)   Possess bingo supplies that were not obtained in accordance with
Ohio R.C. 2915.01 to 2915.13.
   (b)   A charitable organization may purchase, lease, or use instant bingo
ticket dispensers to sell instant bingo tickets or cards.
   (c)   Whoever violates subsection (a) of this section or a rule adopted
under Ohio R.C. 2915.091(C) is guilty of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except
as otherwise provided in this subsection, illegal instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of subsection (a) of this section or of such a rule, illegal
instant bingo conduct is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate
State law.
(ORC 2915.091)
§ 132.08 RAFFLES.
   (a)   (1)   Subject to division (a)(2) of this section, a person or entity
that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and is described
in IRC §§ 501(c)(3), 501(c)(4), 501(c)(6), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or
501(c)(19) may conduct a raffle to raise money for the person or entity and
does not need a license to conduct bingo in order to conduct a raffle drawing
that is not for profit.
      (2)   If a person or entity that is described in division (a)(1) of this
section, but that is not also described in IRC § 501(c)(3), conducts a raffle,
the person or entity shall distribute at least 50% of the net profit from the
raffle to a charitable purpose described in R.C. § 2915.01(V) or to a
department or agency of the federal government, the state, or any political
subdivision.
   (b)   Except as provided in subsection (a) or (b) of this section, no person
shall conduct a raffle drawing that is for profit or a raffle drawing that is
not for profit.
   (c)   Whoever violates subsection (c) of this section is guilty of illegal
conduct of a raffle. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, illegal
conduct of a raffle is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of subsection (c) of this section,
illegal conduct of a raffle is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate State law. (ORC 2915.092)
§ 132.09 CHARITABLE INSTANT BINGO ORGANIZATIONS.
   (a)   As used in this section, "retail income from all commercial activity"
means the income that a person receives from the provision of goods, services,
or activities that are provided at the location where instant bingo other than
at a bingo session is conducted, including the sale of instant bingo tickets. A
religious organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under
subsection 501(a) and described in subsection 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue
Code, at not more than one location at which it conducts its charitable
programs, may include donations from its members and guests as retail income.
   (b)   (1)   If a charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant
bingo other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08, the charitable instant bingo organization shall enter into a written
contract with the owner or lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is
conducted to allow the owner or lessor to assist in the conduct of instant
bingo other than at a bingo session, identify each location where the instant
bingo other than at a bingo session is being conducted, and identify the owner
or lessor of each location.
      (2)   A charitable instant bingo organization that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C. §
2915.08 is not required to enter into a written contract with the owner or
lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is conducted provided that
the owner or lessor is not assisting in the conduct of the instant bingo other
than at a bingo session and provided that the conduct of the instant bingo
other than at a bingo session at that location is not more than five days per
calendar year and not more than ten hours per day.
   (c)   Except as provided in subsection (f) of this section, no charitable
instant bingo organization shall conduct instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at a location where the primary source of retail income from all
commercial activity at that location is the sale of instant bingo tickets.
   (d)   The owner or lessor of a location that enters into a contract pursuant
to subsection (b) of this section shall pay the full gross profit to the
charitable instant bingo organization, in return for the deal of instant bingo
tickets. The owner or lessor may retain the money that the owner or lessor
receives for selling the instant bingo tickets, provided, however, that after
the deal has been sold, the owner or lessor shall pay to the charitable instant
bingo organization the value of any unredeemed instant bingo prizes remaining
in the deal of instant bingo tickets.
   The charitable instant bingo organization shall pay six per cent of the
total gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets for the purpose of
reimbursing the owner or lessor for expenses described in this subsection.
   As used in this subsection, "expenses" means those items provided for in
subsections (gg)(4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (12) and (13) of Section
132.01 and that percentage of the owner's or lessor's rent for the location
where instant bingo is conducted. "Expenses" in the aggregate, shall not exceed
six per cent of the total gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets.
   As used in this subsection, "full gross profit" means the amount by which
the total receipts of all instant bingo tickets, if the deal had been sold in
full, exceeds the amount that would be paid out if all prizes were redeemed.
   (e)   A charitable instant bingo organization shall provide the Attorney
General with all of the following information:
      (1)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has terminated a
contract entered into pursuant to subsection (b) of this section with an owner
or lessor of a location;
      (2)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has entered into a
written contract pursuant to subsection (b) of this section with a new owner or
lessor of a location;
      (3)   That the charitable instant bingo organization is aware of conduct
by the owner or lessor of a location at which instant bingo is conducted that
is in violation of this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (f)   Subsection (c) of this section does not apply to a volunteer
firefighter's organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under
subsection 501(a) and described in subsection 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue
Code, that conducts instant bingo other than at a bingo session on the premises
where the organization conducts firefighter training, that has conducted
instant bingo continuously for at least five years prior to July 1, 2003, and
that, during each of those five years, had gross receipts of at least one
million five hundred thousand dollars. (ORC 2915.093)
§ 132.10 LOCATION OF INSTANT BINGO.
   (a)   No owner or lessor of a location shall assist a charitable instant
bingo organization in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at that location unless the owner or lessor has entered into a written
contract, as described in Section
132.09, with the charitable instant bingo organization to assist in the conduct
of instant bingo other than at a bingo session.
   (b)   The location of the lessor or owner shall be designated as a location
where the charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session.
   (c)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in subsection (a) of this section shall violate any provision of
Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915, or permit, aid, or abet any other person in violating
any provision of Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (d)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in subsection (a) of this section shall violate the terms of the
contract.
   (e)   (1)   Whoever violates subsection (c) or (d) of this section is guilty
of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this
subsection, illegal instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of subsection (c)
or (d) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony and shall be
prosecuted under appropriate State law.
      (2)   If an owner or lessor of a location knowingly, intentionally, or
recklessly violates subsection (c) or (d) of this section, any license that the
owner or lessor holds for the retail sale of any goods on the owner's or
lessor's premises that is issued by the State or a political subdivision is
subject to suspension, revocation, or payment of a monetary penalty at the
request of the Attorney General. (ORC 2915.094)
§ 132.11 BINGO OR GAME OF CHANCE RECORDS.
   (a)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo or a game of chance
pursuant to Section
132.02(d), shall fail to maintain the following records for at least three
years from the date on which the bingo or game of chance is conducted:
      (1)   An itemized list of the gross receipts of each bingo session, each
game of instant bingo by serial number, each raffle, each punch board game, and
each game of chance, and an itemized list of the gross profits of each game of
instant bingo by serial number;
      (2)   An itemized list of all expenses, other than prizes, that are
incurred in conducting bingo or instant bingo, the name of each person to whom
the expenses are paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses;
      (3)   A list of all prizes awarded during each bingo session, each
raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance conducted by the
charitable organization, the total prizes awarded from each game of instant
bingo by serial number, and the name, address, and social security number of
all persons who are winners of prizes of six hundred dollars ($600.00) or more
in value;
      (4)   An itemized list of the recipients of the net profit of the bingo
or game of chance, including the name and address of each recipient to whom the
money is distributed, and if the organization uses the net profit of bingo, or
the money or assets received from a game of chance, for any charitable or other
purpose set forth in Section
 132.01(v), Section
132.02(d), or Ohio R.C. 2915.101, a list of each purpose and an itemized list
of each expenditure for each purpose;
      (5)   The number of persons who participate in any bingo session or game
of chance that is conducted by the charitable organization;
      (6)   A list of receipts from the sale of food and beverages by the
charitable organization or one of its auxiliary units or societies, if the
receipts were excluded from "gross receipts" Section 132.01(t);
      (7)   An itemized list of all expenses incurred at each bingo session,
each raffle, each punch board game, or each game of instant bingo conducted by
the charitable organization in the sale of food and beverages by the charitable
organization or by an auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization,
the name of each person to whom the expenses are paid, and a receipt for all of
the expenses.
   (b)   A charitable organization shall keep the records that it is required
to maintain pursuant to subsection (a) of this section at its principal place
of business in this State or at its headquarters in this State and shall notify
the Attorney General of the location at which those records are kept.
   (c)   The gross profit from each bingo session or game described in Section
132.01(o)(1) or (2) shall be deposited into a checking account devoted
exclusively to the bingo session or game. Payments for allowable expenses
incurred in conducting the bingo session or game and payments to recipients of
some or all of the net profit of the bingo session or game shall be made only
by checks or electronic fund transfers drawn on the bingo session or game
account.
   (d)   Each charitable organization shall conduct and record an inventory of
all of its bingo supplies as of the first day of November of each year.
   (e)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with Ohio R.C.
Chapter 119 that establish standards of accounting, record keeping, and
reporting to ensure that gross receipts from bingo or games of chance are
properly accounted for.
   (f)   A distributor shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing to another person bingo supplies for use in this State.
The record shall include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name of the manufacturer from which the distributor purchased
the bingo supplies and the date of the purchase;
      (2)   The name and address of the charitable organization or other
distributor to which the bingo supplies were sold or otherwise provided;
      (3)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies;
      (4)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each charitable organization.
   (g)   A manufacturer shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing bingo supplies for use in this State. The record shall
include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name and address of the distributor to whom the bingo supplies
were sold or otherwise provided;
      (2)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies, including
serial numbers;
      (3)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each distributor.
   (h)   The Attorney General, or any law enforcement agency, may do all of the
following:
      (1)   Investigate any charitable organization or any officer, agent,
trustee, member, or employee of the organization;
      (2)   Examine the accounts and records of the organization;
      (3)   Conduct inspections, audits, and observations of bingo or games of
chance;
      (4)   Conduct inspections of the premises where bingo or games of chance
are conducted;
      (5)   Take any other necessary and reasonable action to determine if a
violation of any provision of this chapter has occurred and to determine
whether Section
132.12 has been complied with.
   If any law enforcement agency has reasonable grounds to believe that a
charitable organization or an officer, agent, trustee, member, or employee of
the organization has violated any provision of this chapter, the law
enforcement agency may proceed by action in the proper court to enforce this
chapter, provided that the law enforcement agency shall give written notice to
the Attorney General when commencing an action as described in this subsection.
   (i)   No person shall destroy, alter, conceal, withhold, or deny access to
any accounts or records of a charitable organization that have been requested
for examination, or obstruct, impede, or interfere with any inspection, audit,
or observation of bingo or a game of chance or premises where bingo or a game
of chance is conducted, or refuse to comply with any reasonable request of, or
obstruct, impede, or interfere with any other reasonable action undertaken by,
the Attorney General or a law enforcement agency pursuant to subsection (h) of
this section.
   (j)   Whoever violates subsection (a) or (i) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. (ORC 2915.10)
§ 132.12 BINGO OPERATOR PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   No person shall be a bingo game operator unless he is eighteen years
of age or older.
   (b)   No person who has been convicted of a felony or a gambling offense in
any jurisdiction shall be a bingo game operator.
   (c)   Whoever violates subsection (a) hereof is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
   (d)   Whoever violates subsection (b) hereof is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree. (ORC 2915.11)
§ 132.13 BINGO EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   Sections
132.06 through
132.10 and
132.16 do not apply to bingo games that are conducted for the purpose of
amusement only. A bingo game is conducted for the purpose of amusement only if
it complies with all of the requirements specified in either division (a)(1) or
(a)(2) of this section.
      (1)   A.   The participants do not pay any money or any other thing of
value including an admission fee, or any fee for bingo cards, sheets, objects
to cover the spaces or other devices used in playing bingo, for the privilege
of participating in the bingo game or to defray any costs of the game, or pay
tips or make donations during or immediately before or after the bingo game.
         B.   All prizes awarded during the course of the game are nonmonetary,
and in the form of merchandise, goods or entitlements to goods or services
only, and the total value of all prizes awarded during the game is less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00).
         C.   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity or
other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         D.   The bingo game is not conducted either during or within ten hours
of any of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2915.07 to 2915.11 or Section
132.06 et seq. of this chapter;
            2.   A scheme or game of chance or bingo described in Section
132.01(o)(2).
      E.   The number of players participating in the bingo game does not
exceed fifty.
      (2)   A.   The participants do not pay money or any other thing of value
as an admission fee, and no participant is charged more than twenty-five cents
(25¢) to purchase a bingo card or sheet, objects to cover the spaces or other
devices used in playing bingo.
         B.   The total amount of money paid by all of the participants for
bingo cards or sheets, objects to cover the spaces or other devices used in
playing bingo does not exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00).
         C.   All of the money paid for bingo cards or sheets, objects to cover
spaces or other devices used in playing bingo is used only to pay winners
monetary and nonmonetary prizes and to provide refreshments.
         D.   The total value of all prizes awarded during the game does not
exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00).
         E.   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity or
other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         F.   The bingo game is not conducted during or within ten hours of
either of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.15 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   A scheme of chance or game of chance or bingo described in
Section
132.01(o)(2).
         G.   All of the participants reside at the premises where the bingo
game is conducted.
         H.   The bingo games are conducted on different days of the week and
not more than twice in a calendar week.
   (b)   The Attorney General, or any local law enforcement agency, may
investigate the conduct of a bingo game that purportedly is conducted for
purposes of amusement only if there is reason to believe that the purported
amusement bingo game does not comply with subsection (a) hereof. A local law
enforcement agency may proceed by action in the proper court to enforce this
section if the local law enforcement agency gives written notice to the
Attorney General when commencing the action.
(ORC 2915.12)
§ 132.14 INSTANT BINGO CONDUCT BY A VETERAN’S OR FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION.
   (a)   Subject to the requirements of R.C. §§ 2915.14 and 2915.15 concerning
electronic instant bingo, a veteran’s organization, a fraternal organization,
or a sporting organization authorized to conduct a bingo session pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 2915 may conduct instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, or both
other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C. §
2915.08 if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to 12
hours during any day, provided that the sale does not begin earlier than 10:00
a.m. and ends not later than 2:00 a.m.
      (2)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to
its own premises and to its own members and invited guests.
      (3)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization is raising money for an organization that is described in IRC §
509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an
organization that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that
is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC
§ 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this state and executes a written
contract with that organization as required in division (b) of this section.
   (b)   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo
pursuant to division (a) of this section is raising money for another
organization that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is
either a governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal
place of business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good standing
in this state, the veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall execute a written contract with the organization that is
described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental
unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of business in this
state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good standing in this state in order
to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo. That contract shall
include a statement of the percentage of the net proceeds that the veteran’s,
fraternal, or sporting organization will be distributing to the organization
that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of
business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §
501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this
state.
   (c)   (1)   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo
pursuant to division (a) of this section has been issued a liquor permit under
R.C. Chapter 4303, that permit may be subject to suspension, revocation, or
cancellation if the veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization violates a provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
      (2)   No veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that enters into a written contract pursuant to division (b) of
this section shall violate any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
or permit, aid, or abet any other person in violating any provision of this
chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (d)   A veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall give all required proceeds earned from the conduct of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to the organization with which the
veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting organization has
entered into a written contract.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal instant bingo or
electronic instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, illegal instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of this section, illegal instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.13)
§ 132.15 SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINES.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall give to another person any item described in
Section
132.01(vv)(1), (2), (3), or (4) in exchange for a noncash prize, toy, or
novelty received as a reward for playing or operating a skill- based amusement
machine or for a free or reduced- prize game won on a skill-based amusement
machine.
      (2)   Whoever violates subsection (a)(1) of this section is guilty of
skill-based amusement machine prohibited conduct. Except as provided herein, a
violation of subsection (a)(1) is a misdemeanor of the first degree for each
redemption of a prize that is involved in the violation. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of subsection (a)(1), a violation
of subsection (a)(1) is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate
State law. (ORC 2915.06)
   (b)   Any regulation of skill-based amusement machines shall be governed by
this chapter and Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915 and not by Ohio R.C. Chapter 1345.
(ORC 2915.061)
§ 132.16 ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No charitable organization shall conduct electronic instant bingo
unless all of the following are true:
      (1)   The organization is a veteran’s organization described in R.C. §
2915.01(J), or is a fraternal organization described in R.C. § 2915.01(L), and
the organization qualified as a veteran’s organization or fraternal
organization, as applicable, on or before June 30, 2021.
      (2)   The organization is a veteran’s organization described in IRC § 501
(c)(4) or is, and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the organization
is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), and is described in
IRC § 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or 501(c)(19).
      (3)   The organization has not conducted a raffle in violation of R.C. §
2915.092(B) using an electronic raffle machine, as described in Ohio Veterans
and Fraternal Charitable Coalition v. DeWine, Case No. 13-CV-13610 (C.P.
Franklin Co. February 23, 2018), at any time on or after January 1, 2022.
   (B)   No charitable organization that conducts electronic instant bingo
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Possess an electronic instant bingo system that was not obtained in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 2915 or with any rule adopted under R.C. Chapter
2915;
      (2)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on any day, at any time, or on any
premises not specified on the organization’s type II or type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Hold more than one valid license to conduct electronic instant
bingo at any one time;
      (4)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on more than one premises or on
any premises other than the charitable organization’s principal place of
business;
      (5)   Operate more than ten electronic bingo systems at the premises on
which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo under its
license;
      (6)   Fail to display both of the following conspicuously at the premises
on which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo:
         (a)   The charitable organization’s bingo license;
         (b)   The serial number of each deal of electronic instant bingo
tickets being sold.
      (7)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should have
known, to be under 18 years of age to play electronic instant bingo;
      (8)   Sell or provide to any person an electronic instant bingo ticket
for a price different from the price displayed on the game flare for that deal,
except that the charitable organization may give a participant who wins an
electronic instant bingo game an electronic instant bingo ticket as a prize in
place of a cash prize;
      (9)   Fail, once an electronic instant bingo deal is begun, to continue
to sell tickets in that deal until all prizes have been awarded;
      (10)   Permit any person whom the organization knows, or should have
known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction
to be a bingo game operator in the conduct of electronic instant bingo;
      (11)   Permit a bingo game operator to play electronic instant bingo;
      (12)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(12)B. of this
section, pay compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting electronic
instant bingo.
         (b)   Division (B)(12)(a) of this section does not prohibit an
employee of a veteran’s organization or fraternal organization from redeeming
electronic instant bingo tickets or vouchers for the organization’s members or
invited guests, so long as no portion of the employee’s compensation is paid
from any bingo receipts.
      (13)   Pay consulting fees to any person in relation to electronic
instant bingo.
   (C)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or otherwise provide or offer to
provide an electronic instant bingo system to any person for use in this
municipality unless the electronic instant bingo system has been approved under
R.C. § 2915.15.
   (D)   Whoever knowingly violates division (A), (B), or (C) of this section
or a rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.14(D) is guilty of illegal electronic
instant bingo conduct. Illegal electronic instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or state law, or of a rule adopted
under R.C. § 2915.14(D), illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.14)
CHAPTER 133: HABITATION AND PROPERTY OFFENSES
Section
133.01   Definitions
133.02   Application of provisions
133.03   Arson
133.04   Criminal damaging or endangering
133.05   Criminal mischief
133.06   Criminal trespass
133.07   Petty theft
133.08   Unauthorized use of a vehicle
133.09   Unauthorized use of property or access to computer systems
133.10   Passing bad checks
133.11   Misuse of credit cards
133.12   Making or using slugs
133.13   Prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud
133.14   Tampering with records
133.15   Securing writings by deception
133.16   Defrauding creditors
133.17   Receiving stolen property
133.18   Tampering with coin machines
133.19   Determining property value in theft offense
133.20   Exclusions
133.21   Destruction of vines, shrubs, trees or crops
133.22   Shoplifting
133.23   Detention of shoplifters
133.24   Identity fraud
133.25   Trespass on a place of public amusement
133.26   Railroad vandalism; criminal trespass; interference with operation of
train; grade crossing device vandalism
133.27   Desecration
Cross-reference:
   Names of persons damaging real property by operation of vehicle to be
provided to owner, see §
130.15
§ 133.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE. Any services provided by or through the facilities
of any cable television system or other similar closed circuit coaxial cable
communications system, or any microwave or similar  transmission service used
in connection with any cable television system or other similar closed circuit
coaxial cable communications system.
   COIN MACHINE. Any mechanical or electrical device designed to do both of the
following:
      (1)   Receive a coin or bill, or token made for that purpose;
      (2)   In return for the insertion or deposit of a coin, bill, or token,
automatically dispense property, provide a service, or grant a license.
   COMPUTER. An electronic device that performs logical, arithmetic, and memory
functions by the manipulation of electronic or magnetic impulses. COMPUTER
includes, but is not limited to, all input, output, processing, storage,
computer program, or communication facilities that are connected, or related,
in a computer system or network to an electronic device of that nature.
   COMPUTER NETWORK. A set of related and remotely connected computers and
communication facilities that includes more than one computer system that has
the capability to transmit among the connected computers and communication
facilities through the use of computer facilities.
   COMPUTER PROGRAM. An ordered set of data representing coded instructions or
statements that when executed by a computer cause the computer to process data.
   COMPUTER SERVICES. Includes, but is not limited to, the use of a computer
system, computer network, computer program, data that is prepared for computer
use, or data that is contained within a computer system or network.
   COMPUTER SYSTEM. A set of related computers, whether connected or
unconnected, and the equipment that is necessary to operate the computers.
   CREDIT CARD. Includes, but is not limited to, a card, code, device, or other
means of access to a customer's account for the purpose of obtaining money,
property, labor, or services on credit, or for initiating an electronic fund
transfer at a point-of-sale terminal, an automated teller  machine, or a cash
dispensing machine. ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER has the same meaning as in 92
Stat. 3728, 15 U.S.C.A. 1693a, as amended.
   DATA. A representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts, or
instructions that are prepared in a formalized manner and that are intended for
use in a computer system or network. For purposes of R.C. § 2913.47, DATA has
the additional meaning set forth in division (A) of that section.
   DECEPTION. Knowingly deceiving another or causing another to be deceived, by
any false or misleading representation, by withholding information, by
preventing another from acquiring information, or by any other conduct, act, or
omission which creates, confirms, or perpetuates a false impression in another,
including a false impression as to law, value, state of mind, or other
objective or subjective fact.
   DEFRAUD. To knowingly obtain, by deception, some benefit for oneself or
another, or to knowingly cause, by deception, some detriment to another.
   DEPRIVE.
      (1)   Withhold property of another permanently, or for a period that
appropriates a substantial portion of its value or use, or with purpose to
restore it only upon payment of a reward or other consideration;
      (2)   Dispose of property so as to make it unlikely that the owner will
recover it;
      (3)   Accept, use, or appropriate money, property, or services, with
purpose not to give proper consideration in return for the money, property or
services, and without reasonable justification or excuse for not giving proper
consideration.
   ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER. Has the same meaning as in 92 Stat. 3728, 15
U.S.C.A. 1693a, as amended.
   FORGE. To fabricate or create, in whole or in part and by any means, any
spurious writing, or to make, execute, alter, complete, reproduce, or otherwise
purport to authenticate any writing, when such writing in fact is not
authenticated by that conduct.
   OWNER. Unless the context requires a different meaning, any person, other
than the actor, who is the owner of, who has possession or control of, or who
has any license  or interest in property or services, even though the
ownership, possession, control, license, or interest is unlawful.
   RENTED PROPERTY. Personal property in which the right of possession and use
of the property is for a short and possibly indeterminate term in return for
consideration; the rentee generally controls the duration of possession of the
property within any applicable minimum or maximum term; and the amount of
consideration is generally determined by the duration of possession of the
property.
   SERVICES. Include labor, personal services, professional services, rental
services, public utility services, including wireless service as defined in
Ohio R.C. 5507.01(F)(1), common carrier services, and food, drink,
transportation, entertainment and cable television services.
   SLUG. An object that, by virtue of its size, shape, composition, or other
quality, is capable of being inserted or deposited in a coin machine as an
improper substitute for a genuine coin, bill, or token made for that purpose.
   THEFT. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of §§
133.06 through
133.18, inclusive, or
133.22;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state of the United States substantially equivalent to any
section listed in division (I) (1) of this section;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or the United States involving robbery, burglary,
breaking and entering, theft, embezzlement, wrongful conversion, forgery,
counterfeiting, deceit, or fraud;
      (4)   An attempt to commit, or complicity in committing any offense under
division (I) (1), (2), or (3) of this section.
   THEFT OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation any of the sections listed in R.C. § 2913.01 (K) (1);
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
section listed in division (1) of this definition, or any of the sections
listed in R.C. § 2913.01(K)(2);
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or the United States involving robbery, burglary,
breaking and entering, theft, embezzlement, wrongful conversion, forgery,
counterfeiting, deceit, or fraud;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing any
offense under divisions (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   UTTER. To issue, publish, transfer, use, put or send into circulation,
deliver, or display.
   WRITING. Any computer program, document, letter, memorandum, note, paper,
plate, data, film, or other thing having in or upon it any written,
typewritten, or printed matter, and any token, stamp, seal, credit card, badge,
trademark, label, or other symbol of value, right, privilege, license, or
identification.
   ELDERLY PERSON. A person who is sixty-five years of age or older.
   DISABLED ADULT. A person who is eighteen years of age or older and has some
impairment of body or mind that makes the person unfit to work at any
substantially remunerative employment that the person otherwise would be able
to perform and that will, with reasonable probability, continue for a period of
at least twelve months without any present indication of recovery from the
impairment, or who is eighteen years of age or older and has been certified as
permanently and totally disabled by an agency of this State or the United
States that has the function of so classifying persons.
   FIREARM and DANGEROUS ORDNANCE. The same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 2923.11.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. The same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4501.01.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. The same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4729.01.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. The same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2925.01. (ORC 2913.01)
   POLICE DOG OR HORSE and SERVICE DOG. Have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C.
2921.321.
   ANHYDROUS AMMONIA. A compound formed by the combination of two gaseous
elements, nitrogen and hydrogen, in the manner described in this subsection.
Anhydrous ammonia is one part nitrogen to three parts hydrogen (NH3). Anhydrous
ammonia by weight is fourteen parts nitrogen to three parts hydrogen, which is
approximately eighty-two per cent nitrogen to eighteen per cent hydrogen. (ORC
2913.01)
   ACTIVE DUTY SERVICE MEMBER. Any member of the armed forces of the United
States performing active duty under Title 10 of the United States Code.
(ORC 2913.01)
§ 133.02 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Any person having previously been convicted of a theft offense under
this code or the Revised Code shall, on a subsequent offense, be prosecuted
pursuant to the provisions of Title 29 of the Revised Code.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to §§
133.09,
133.12,
133.14,
133.15,
133.16 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1839, passed 4-23-74)
§ 133.03 ARSON.
   (A)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of another without the other person’s consent;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of the offender or another, with purpose to defraud;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to the
statehouse or a courthouse, school building, or other building or structure
that is owned or controlled by the state, any political subdivision, or any
department, agency, or instrumentality of the state or a political subdivision,
and that is used for public purposes;
      (4)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
property of another without the other person’s consent or to any property of
the offender or another with purpose to defraud;
      (5)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush- covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision without the consent of
the other person, the state, or the political subdivision;
      (6)   With purpose to defraud, cause, or create a substantial risk of,
physical harm to any park, preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over
land, forest, timberland, greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is
owned or controlled by the offender, another person, the state, or a political
subdivision.
   (B)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure that is not an occupied structure and that is in or on any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision.
   (C)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(1)
or (B)(2) of this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the
other person.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(3) of
this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the other person, the
state, or the political subdivision.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of arson.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(1) or (B)(1) of this section is one of
the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(2)(b) of this
section, a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the value of the property or the amount of the physical harm
involved is $1,000 or more, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   A violation of division (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)(5), (A)(6), (B)
(2) or (B)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.03)
§ 133.04 CRIMINAL DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING.
   (A)   No person shall cause, or create a substantial risk of physical harm
to any property of another without the other person's consent:
      (1)   Knowingly, by any means;
      (2)   Recklessly, by means of fire, explosion, flood, poison gas, poison,
radioactive material, caustic or corrosive material, or other inherently
dangerous agency or substance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal damaging or
endangering, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If violation of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging or endangering
is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the property involved in a violation
of this section is an aircraft, an aircraft engine, propeller, appliance, spare
part, or any other equipment or implement used or intended to be used in the
operation of an aircraft, and if the violation creates a risk of physical harm
to any person, criminal damaging or endangering is a felony of the fifth degree
and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the property involved
in a violation of this section is an aircraft, an aircraft engine, propeller,
appliance, spare part, or any other equipment or implement used or intended to
be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the violation creates a
substantial risk of physical harm to any person or if the property involved in
a violation of this section is an occupied aircraft, criminal damaging or
endangering is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.06) (Ord. 1839, passed 4-23-74) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.05 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy
or otherwise improperly tamper with either of the following:
         (a)   The property of another;
         (b)   One's own residential real property with the purpose to decrease
the value of or enjoyment of the residential real property, if both of the
following apply:
            1.   The residential real property is subject to a mortgage.
            2.   The person has been served with a summons and complaint in a
pending residential mortgage loan foreclosure action relating to that real
property. As used in this subsection, "pending" includes the time between
judgment entry and confirmation of sale.
      (2)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of property of
another employ a tear gas device, stink bomb, smoke generator or other device
releasing a substance that is harmful or offensive to persons exposed, or that
tends to cause public alarm;
      (3)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy
or otherwise improperly tamper with a bench mark, triangulation station,
boundary marker or other survey station, monument or marker.
      (4)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy
or otherwise improperly tamper with any safety device, the property of another
or the property of the offender when required or placed for the safety of
others, so as to destroy or diminish its effectiveness or availability for its
intended purpose;
      (5)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of the property
of another, set a fire on the land of another or place personal property that
has been set on fire on the land of another, which fire or personal property is
outside and apart from any building, other structure or personal property that
is on that land.
      (6)   Without privilege to do so, and with intent to impair the
functioning of any computer, computer system, computer network, computer
software, or computer program, all as defined in Ohio R.C. 2909.01, knowingly
do any of the following:
         (a)   In any manner or by any means, including, but not limited to,
computer hacking, alter, damage, destroy, or modify a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program or data
contained in a computer, computer system, computer network, computer software,
or computer program;
         (b)   Introduce a computer contaminant into a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software or computer program.
      (7)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly destroy or improperly tamper
with a critical infrastructure facility.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2911.21.
      IMPROPERLY TAMPER. Means to change the physical location or the physical
condition of the property.
      SAFETY DEVICE. Means any fire extinguisher, fire hose, or fire axe, or
any fire escape, emergency exit, or emergency escape equipment, or any life
line, life-saving ring, life preserver, or life boat or raft, or any alarm,
light, flare, signal, sign, or notice intended to warn of danger or emergency,
or intended for other safety purposes, or any guard railing or safety
barricade, or any traffic sign or signal, or any railroad grade crossing sign,
signal, or gate, or any first aid or survival equipment, or any other device,
apparatus, or equipment intended for protecting or preserving the safety of
persons or property.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal mischief,
and shall be punished as provided in division (C)(2), (C)(3), or (C)(4) of this
section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, if the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section creates a risk of physical harm to any person,
criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3),
(A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
property involved in the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section is an aircraft, an aircraft engine, propeller,
appliance, spare part, fuel, lubricant, hydraulic fluid, any other equipment,
implement, or material used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft, or any cargo carried or intended to be carried in an aircraft and if
the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or if the
aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief committed in
violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) of this section or the loss to the victim resulting from the
violation is $1,000 or more, or if the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) is used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft and the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or
if the aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)(7) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.07)
§ 133.06 CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another;
      (2)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, the
use of which is lawfully restricted to certain persons, purposes, modes, or
hours, when the offender knows he is in violation of any such restriction or is
reckless in that regard;
      (3)   Recklessly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, as
to which notice against unauthorized access or presence is given by actual
communication to the offender, or in a manner prescribed by law, or by posting
in a manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential
intruders, or by fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to restrict
access;
      (4)   Being on the land or premises of another, negligently fail or
refuse to leave upon being notified by signage posted in a conspicuous place or
otherwise being notified to do so by the owner or occupant, or the agent or
servant of either;
      (5)   Knowingly enter or remain on a critical infrastructure facility.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the land or
premises involved was owned, controlled, or in custody of a public agency.
   (C)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the offender was
authorized to enter or remain on the land or premises involved when such
authorization was secured by deception.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal trespass.
Criminal trespass in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Criminal trespass in
violation of division (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding Section
130.99, if the person, in committing the violation of this section, used a
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle, the court shall
impose a fine of two times the usual amount imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to two or more violations of this section or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or state law, and the offender, in committing each
violation, used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle,
the court, in addition to or independent of all other penalties imposed for the
violation, may impound the certificate of registration of that snowmobile or
off-highway motorcycle or the certificate of registration and license plate of
that all-purpose vehicle for not less than sixty days. In such a case, Ohio
R.C. 4519.47 applies.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, if the
offender, in committing the violation of this section, used an all-purpose
vehicle, the Clerk of the Court shall pay the fine imposed pursuant to this
section to the State Recreational Vehicle Fund created by R.C. § 4519.11.
   (F)   As used in divisions (A) through (E) of this section:
      ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE, and SNOWMOBILE. Have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4519.01.
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Means:
         (a)   One of the following, if completely enclosed by a fence or other
physical barrier that is obviously designed to exclude intruders, or if clearly
marked with signs that are reasonably likely to come to the attention of
potential intruders and that indicate entry is forbidden without site
authorization:
            1.   A petroleum or alumina refinery;
            2.   An electric generating facility, substation, switching
station, electrical control center, or electric transmission and distribution
lines and associated equipment;
            3.   A chemical, polymer, or rubber manufacturing facility;
            4.   A water intake structure, water treatment facility, waste
water facility, drainage facility, water management facility, or any similar
water or sewage treatment system and its water and sewage piping;
            5.   A natural gas company facility or interstate natural gas
pipeline, including a pipeline interconnection, a natural gas compressor
station and associated facilities, city gate or town border station, metering
station, above-ground piping, regulator station, valve site, delivery station,
fabricated assembly, or any other part of a natural gas storage facility
involved in the gathering, storage, transmission, or distribution of gas;
            6.   A telecommunications central switching office or remote
switching facility or an equivalent network facility that serves a similar
purpose;
            7.   Wireline or wireless telecommunications infrastructure,
including telecommunications towers and telephone poles and lines, including
fiber optic lines;
            8.   A port, trucking terminal, or other freight transportation
facility;
            9.   A gas processing plant, including a plant used in the
processing, treatment, or fractionation of natural gas or natural gas liquids;
            10.   A transmission facility used by a federally licensed radio or
television station;
            11.   A steel- making facility that uses an electric arc furnace to
make steel;
            12.   A facility identified and regulated by the United States
Department of Homeland Security’s Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
Program under 6 C.F.R. part 27;
            13.   A dam that is regulated by the state or federal government;
            14.   A crude oil or refined products storage and distribution
facility, including valve sites, pipeline interconnections, pump station,
metering station, below- or above-ground pipeline, or piping and truck loading
or off-loading facility;
            15.   A video service network and broadband infrastructure,
including associated buildings and facilities, video service headends, towers,
utility poles, and utility lines such as fiber optic lines. As used in this
division, “video service network” has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
            16.   Any above- ground portion of an oil, gas, hazardous liquid or
chemical pipeline, tank, or other storage facility;
            17.   Any above- ground portion of a well, well pad, or production
operation;
            18.   A laydown area or construction site for pipe and other
equipment intended for use on an interstate or intrastate natural gas or crude
oil pipeline;
            19.   Any mining operation, including any processing equipment,
batching operation, or support facility for that mining operation.
         (b)   With respect to a video service network or broadband or wireless
telecommunications infrastructure, the above- ground portion of a facility
installed in a public right-of-way on a utility pole or in a conduit;
         (c)   Any railroad property;
         (d)   An electronic asset of any of the following:
            1.   An electric light company that is a public utility under R.C.
§ 4905.02;
            2.   An electric cooperative, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            3.   A municipal electric utility, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            4.   A natural gas company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            5.   A telephone company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            6.   A video service provider, including a cable operator, as those
terms are defined in R.C. § 1332.21.
      ELECTRONIC ASSET. Includes, but is not limited to, the hardware,
software, and data of a programmable electronic device; all communications,
operations, and customer data networks; and the contents of those data
networks.
      LAND or PREMISES. Includes any land, building, structure, or place
belonging to, controlled by, or in custody of another, and any separate
enclosure or room, or portion thereof.
      PRODUCTION OPERATION, WELL, and WELL PAD. Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 1509.01.
(R.C. § 2911.21)
§ 133.07 PETTY THEFT.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to deprive the owner of property or services,
shall knowingly obtain or exert control over either the property or services in
any of the following ways:
      (1)   Without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give
consent;
      (2)   Beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent;
      (3)   By deception;
      (4)   By threat;
      (5)   By intimidation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of theft. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, a violation of this section is misdemeanor theft, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   The value of the property or services stolen is one thousand
dollars ($1,000) or more; or
      (2)   The victim of the offense is an elderly person, disabled adult,
active duty service member, or spouse of an active duty service member, or
      (3)   The property stolen is a firearm or dangerous ordnance, or
      (4)   The property stolen is a motor vehicle, or
      (5)   The property stolen is any dangerous drug, or
      (6)   The property stolen is a police dog or horse or an assistance dog
and the offender knows or should know that the property stolen is a police dog
or horse or an assistance dog, or
      (7)   The property stolen is anhydrous ammonia, or
      (8)   The property stolen is a special purpose article as defined in Ohio
R.C. 4737.04 or a bulk merchandise container as defined in Ohio R.C. 4737.012.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties described in subsection (B) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by causing a motor vehicle to
leave the premises of an establishment at which gasoline is offered for retail
sale without the offender making full payment for gasoline that was dispensed
into the fuel tank of the motor vehicle or into another container, the court
may do one of the following:
      (1)   Unless subsection (C)(2) of this section applies, suspend for not
more than six months the offender’s driver’s license, probationary driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
nonresident operating privilege;
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s license, probationary driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or nonresident
operating privilege has previously been suspended pursuant to subsection (C)(1)
of this section, impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s license,
permit, or privilege from the range specified in Ohio R.C. 4510.02(A)(7),
provided that the suspension shall be for at least six months.
      (3)   The court, in lieu of suspending the offender's driver's or
commercial driver's license, probationary driver's license, temporary
instruction permit, or nonresident operating privilege pursuant to subsections
(c)(1) or (2) of this section, instead may require the offender to perform
community service for a number of hours determined by the court.
   (D)   In addition to the penalties described in subsection (B) hereof, if
the offender committed the violation by stealing rented property or rental
services, the court may order that the offender make restitution pursuant to
Ohio R.C. 2929.18 or 2929.28. Restitution may include, but is not limited to,
the cost of repairing or replacing the stolen property, or the cost of
repairing the stolen property and any loss of revenue resulting from
deprivation of the property due to theft of rental services that is less than
or equal to
the actual value of the property at the time it was rented. Evidence of intent
to commit theft of rented property or rental services shall be determined
pursuant to the provisions of Ohio R.C. 2913.72.
   (E)   The sentencing court that suspends an offender’s license, permit, or
nonresident operating privilege under subsection (C) of this section may grant
the offender limited driving privileges during the period of the suspension in
accordance with Ohio R.C. Chapter 4510.
(ORC 2913.02)
§ 133.08 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF A VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorcycle, motorboat or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of
the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   This section does not apply to property removed from the State or if
possession is kept for more than forty-eight hours.
   (C)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section:
      (1)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor, though mistaken,
reasonably believed that the actor was authorized to use or operate the
property.
      (2)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor reasonably believed
that the owner or person empowered to give consent would authorize the actor to
use or operate the property.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly enter into or upon a motor vehicle,
motorcycle or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent.
   (E)   Whoever violates subsection (A) hereof is guilty of unauthorized use
of a vehicle, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the victim of the offense
is an elderly person or disabled adult and if the victim incurs a loss as a
result of the violation, a violation of subsection (A) hereof is a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
(ORC 2913.03)
   (F)   Whoever violates subsection (D) hereof is guilty of vehicle trespass,
a minor misdemeanor.
§ 133.09 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PROPERTY OR ACCESS TO COMPUTER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate the property of another
without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   Except as permitted under R.C. § 5503.101, no person shall knowingly
gain access to, attempt to gain access to, or cause access to be gained to any
computer, computer system, or computer network without the consent of the owner
of the computer, computer system or computer network or other person authorized
to give consent by the owner.
   (C)   The affirmative defenses contained in division (B) of §
133.08 of this code are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of property. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
unauthorized use of property is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If
unauthorized use of property is committed for the purpose of devising or
executing a scheme to defraud or to obtain property or services, unauthorized
use of property is whichever of the following is applicable:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided below, unauthorized use of property is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the value of the property or services or the loss to the victim
is $1,000 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of computer property, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.04) (Ord. 1839, passed 4-23-74) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.10 PASSING BAD CHECKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Check” includes any form of debit from a demand deposit account,
including, but not limited to any of the following:
         (a)   A check, bill of exchange, draft, order of withdrawal, or
similar negotiable or nonnegotiable instrument;
         (b)   An electronic check, electronic transaction, debit card
transaction, check card transaction, substitute check, web check, or any form
of automated clearing house transaction.
      (2)   “Issue a check” means causing any form of debit from a demand
deposit account.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall issue or transfer or cause
to be issued or transferred a check or other negotiable instrument,
knowing that it will be dishonored or knowing that a person has ordered or will
order stop payment on the check or other negotiable instrument.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, a person who issues or transfers a check
or other negotiable instrument is presumed to know that it will be dishonored,
if either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The drawer had no account with the drawee at the time of issue or
the stated date, whichever is later.
      (2)   The check or other negotiable instrument was properly refused
payment for insufficient funds upon presentment within thirty days after issue
or the stated date, whichever is later, and the liability of the drawer,
indorser or any party who may be liable thereon is not discharged by payment or
satisfaction within ten days after receiving notice of dishonor.
   (D)   In determining the value of the payment for purposes of subsection (E)
of this section, the court may aggregate all checks and other negotiable
instruments that the offender issued or transferred or caused to be issued or
transferred in violation of subsection (A) of this section within a period of
one hundred eighty consecutive days.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of passing bad checks. Except
as otherwise provided in this subsection, passing bad checks is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the check or checks or other negotiable instrument or
instruments are issued or transferred to a single vendor or single other person
for the payment of one thousand dollars ($1,000) or more or if the check or
checks or other negotiable instrument or instruments are issued or transferred
to multiple vendors or persons for the payment of one thousand five hundred
dollars ($1,500) or more, passing bad checks is a felony and shall be
prosecuted under appropriate State law.
(ORC 2913.11)
§ 133.11 MISUSE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Practice deception for the purpose of procuring the issuance of a
credit card, when a credit card is issued in actual reliance thereon;
      (2)   Knowingly buy or sell a credit card from or to a person other than
the issuer;
      (3)   As an officer, employee, or appointee of a political subdivision or
as a public servant as defined under R.C. § 2921.01, knowingly misuse a credit
card account held by a political subdivision.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Obtain control over a credit card as security for a debt;
      (2)   Obtain property or services by the use of a credit card, in one or
more transactions, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the card
has expired or been revoked, or was obtained, is retained or is being used in
violation of law;
      (3)   Furnish property or services upon presentation of a credit card,
knowing that the card is being used in violation of law;
      (4)   Represent or cause to be represented to the issuer of a credit card
that property or services have been furnished, knowing that the representation
is false.
   (C)   No person, with purpose to violate this section, shall receive,
possess, control or dispose of a credit card.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misuse of credit cards, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Misuse of credit cards is a felony and shall
be prosecuted under appropriate State law if:
      (1)   The cumulative retail value of the property and services involved
in one or more violations of subsection (B)(2), (3) or (4) hereof, which
violations involve one or more credit card accounts and occur within a period
of ninety consecutive days commencing on the date of the first violation, is
one thousand dollars ($1,000) or more; or
      (2)   The victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled adult
and the offense involves a violation of subsection (B)(1) or (2) hereof.
(ORC 2913.21)
§ 133.12 MAKING OR USING SLUGS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Insert or deposit a slug in a coin machine, with purpose to
defraud;
      (2)   Make, possess, or dispose of a slug, with purpose of enabling
another to defraud by inserting or depositing it in a coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or using slugs, a
misdemeanor of the second degree. (R.C. § 2913.33) (Ord. 1839, passed 4-23-74)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.13 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF PURPOSE TO DEFRAUD.
   In a prosecution of a person for a theft offense that alleges that the
person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she was facilitating a
fraud, hired an aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat, sailboat,
camper, trailer, horse, or buggy, or kept or operated any of the same that has
been hired, or engaged accommodations at a hotel, motel, inn, campground, or
other hostelry, it is prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud if the person
did any of the following:
   (A)   Used deception to induce the rental agency to furnish the person with
the aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat, sailboat, camper, trailer,
horse, or buggy, or used deception to induce the hostelry to furnish the person
with accommodations;
   (B)   Hired any aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat, sailboat,
camper, trailer, horse, or buggy, or engaged accommodations, knowing that he or
she is without sufficient means to pay the hire or rental;
   (C)   Absconded without paying the hire or rental;
   (D)   Knowingly failed to pay the hire or rental as required by the contract
of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure;
   (E)   Knowingly failed to return hired property as required by the contract
of hire, without reasonable excuse for the failure.
(R.C. § 2913.41) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.14 TAMPERING WITH RECORDS.
   (A)   No person, knowing the person has no privilege to do so, and with
purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is facilitating a fraud, shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Falsify, destroy, remove, conceal, alter, deface or mutilate any
writing, computer software, data, or record;
      (2)   Utter any writing or record, knowing it to have been tampered with
as provided in subsection (A)(1) hereof.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with records, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation involves data or computer
software the value of which or loss to the victim is one thousand dollars
($1,000) or more, or if the writing or record is a will unrevoked at the time
of the offense, tampering with records is a felony and shall be prosecuted
under appropriate State law. (ORC 2913.42)
§ 133.15 SECURING WRITINGS BY DECEPTION.
   (A)   No person, by deception, shall cause another to execute any writing
that disposes of or encumbers property, or by which a pecuniary obligation is
incurred.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of securing writings by
deception, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Securing writings by deception is
a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law if:
      (1)   The value of the property or obligation involved is one thousand
dollars ($1,000) or more; or
      (2)   The victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled adult,
active duty service member or spouse of an active duty service member. (ORC
2913.43)
§ 133.16 DEFRAUDING CREDITORS.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud one or more of his creditors, shall
do any of the following:
      (1)   Remove, conceal, destroy, encumber, convey, or otherwise deal with
any of the person's property;
      (2)   Misrepresent or refuse to disclose to a fiduciary appointed to
administer or manage the person's affairs or estate, the existence, amount, or
location of any of the person's property, or any other information regarding
such property that the person legally required to furnish to the fiduciary.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of defrauding creditors.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, defrauding creditors is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property involved is
$1,000 or more, defrauding creditors is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. (R.C § 2913.45) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.17 RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall receive, retain or dispose of property of another,
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the property has been
obtained through commission of a theft offense.
   (B)   It is not a defense to a charge of receiving stolen property in
violation of this section that the property was obtained by means other than
through the commission of a theft offense if the property was explicitly
represented to the accused person as being obtained through the commission of a
theft offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of receiving stolen property,
a misdemeanor of the first degree. Receiving stolen property is a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law if:
      (1)   The value of the property involved is one thousand dollars ($1,000)
or more; or
      (2)   The property involved is:
         A.   Listed in Section
133.20; or
         B.   A motor vehicle as defined in Ohio R.C. 4501.01; or
         C.   A dangerous drug as defined in Ohio R.C. 4729.01.
         D.   A special purchase article as defined in Ohio R.C. 4737.04 or a
bulk merchandise container as defined in Ohio R.C. 4737.012. (ORC 2913.51)
§ 133.18 TAMPERING WITH COIN MACHINES.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to commit theft or to defraud, shall knowingly
enter, force an entrance into, tamper with, or insert any part of an instrument
into any coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with coin
machines, a misdemeanor of the first degree. (R.C. § 2911.32) (Ord. 1839,
passed 4-23-74) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.19 DETERMINING PROPERTY VALUE IN THEFT OFFENSE.
   (A)   If more than one item of property or service is involved in a theft
offense, the value of the property or services involved for the purpose of
determining the value is the aggregate value of all property or services
involved in the offense.
   (B)   (1)   When a series of offenses under Section
133.07, or a series of violations of, attempts to commit a violation of,
conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations of Section
133.07,
133.08, or
133.09,
133.11(b)(1) or (2), or Section
133.15 involving a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, is
committed by the offender in the offender's same employment, capacity, or
relationship to another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single
offense. When a series of offenses under Section
133.07, or a series of violations of, attempts to commit a violation of,
conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations of Sections
133.07 or
133.15 involving a victim who is an active duty service member or spouse of an
active duty service member is committed by the offender in the offender’s same
employment, capacity or relationship to another, all of those offenses shall be
tried as a single offense. The value of the property or services involved in
the series of offenses for the purpose of determining the value is the
aggregate value of all property and services involved in all offenses in the
series.
      (2)   If an offender commits a series of offenses under Section
133.07 that involves a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims,
all of the offenses may be tried as a single offense. If an offender is being
tried for the commission of a series of violations of, attempts to commit a
violation of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations of Section
133.07,
133.08 or
133.09, Section
133.11(B)(1) or (2), or Section
133.15, whether committed against one victim or more than one victim, involving
a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, pursuant to a scheme or
course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a single offense. If
the offender is being tried for the commission of a series of violations of,
attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in
violations of Section
133.07 or , whether committed against one victim or more than one victim,
involving a victim who is an active duty service member or spouse of an active
duty service member pursuant to a scheme or course of conduct, all of those
offenses may be tried as a single offense. If the offenses are tried as a
single offense, the value of the property or services involved for the purpose
of determining the value is the aggregate value of all property and services
involved in all of the offenses in the course of conduct.
      (3)   In prosecuting a single offense under subsection (B)(1) or (2), it
is not necessary to separately allege and prove each offense in the series.
Rather, it is sufficient to allege and prove that the offender, within a given
span of time, committed one or more theft offenses in the offender's same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another as described in subsection (B)
(1) of this section or that involve a common course of conduct to defraud
multiple victims or a scheme or course of conduct as described in subsection
(B)(2) of this section. While it is not necessary to separately allege and
prove each offense in the series in order to prosecute a single offense under
subsection (B)(1) or (2) hereof, it remains necessary in prosecuting them as a
single offense to prove the aggregate value of the property or services in
order to meet the requisite statutory offense level sought by the prosecution.
   (C)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   The value of an heirloom, memento, collector's item, antique,
museum piece, manuscript, document, record or other thing that has intrinsic
worth to its owner and that is either irreplaceable or is replaceable only on
the expenditure of substantial time, effort or money, is the amount that would
compensate the owner for its loss.
      (2)   The value of personal effects and household goods, and of
materials, supplies, equipment and fixtures used in the profession, business,
trade, occupation or avocation of its owner, which property is not covered
under subsection (C)(1) hereof, and which retains substantial utility for its
purpose regardless of its age or condition, is the cost of replacing the
property with new property of like kind and quality.
      (3)   The value of any real or personal property that is not covered
under subsections (C)(1) or (2) hereof, and the value of services, is the fair
market value of the property or services. As used in this section, "fair market
value" is the money consideration that a buyer would give and a seller would
accept for property or services, assuming that the buyer is willing to buy and
the seller is willing to sell, that both are fully informed as to all facts
material to the transaction, and that neither is under any compulsion to act.
   (D)   Without limitation on the evidence that may be used to establish the
value of property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   When the property involved is personal property held for sale at
wholesale or retail, the price at which the property was held for sale is
prima-facie evidence of its value.
      (2)   When the property involved is a security or commodity traded on an
exchange, the closing price or, if there is no closing price, the asked price,
given in the latest market quotation prior to the offense, is prima-facie
evidence of the value of the security or commodity.
      (3)   When the property involved is livestock, poultry or raw
agricultural products for which a local market price is available, the latest
local market price prior to the offense is prima-facie evidence of the value of
the livestock, poultry or products.
      (4)   When the property involved is a negotiable instrument, the face
value is prima-facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (5)   When the property involved is a warehouse receipt, bill of lading,
pawn ticket, claim check or other instrument entitling the holder or bearer to
receive property, the face value or, if there is no face value, the value of
the property covered by the instrument less any payment necessary to receive
the property, is prima-facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (6)   When the property involved is a ticket of admission, ticket for
transportation, coupon, token or other instrument entitling the holder or
bearer to receive property or services, the face value or, if there is no face
value, the value of the property or services that may be received by the
instrument, is prima-facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (7)   When the services involved are gas, electricity, water, telephone,
transportation, shipping or other services for which the rate is established by
law, the duly established rate is prima-facie evidence of the value of the
services.
      (8)   When the services involved are services for which the rate is not
established by law, and the offender has been notified prior to the offense of
the rate for the services, either in writing or orally, or by posting in a
manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential offenders,
the rate contained in the notice is prima-facie evidence of the value of the
services. (ORC 2913.61)
§ 133.20 EXCLUSIONS.
   Regardless of the value of the property involved, and regardless of whether
the offender previously has been convicted of a theft offense, a violation of §
133.07 or §
133.17 is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the property
involved is any of the following:
   (A)   A credit card;
   (B)   A printed form for a check or other negotiable instrument, that on its
face identifies the drawer or maker for whose use it is designed or identifies
the account on which it is to be drawn, and that has not been executed by the
drawer or maker or on which the amount is blank;
   (C)   A motor vehicle identification license plate as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.22, a temporary motor vehicle license registration as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.182, or any comparable temporary motor vehicle license registration as
prescribed by the applicable law of another state or the United States;
   (D)   A blank form for a certificate of title or a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate to a motor vehicle, as prescribed by R.C. § 4505.07;
   (E)   A blank form for any license listed in R.C. § 4507.01.
(R.C. § 2913.71) (Ord. 1839, passed 4-23-74)
§ 133.21 DESTRUCTION OF VINES, SHRUBS, TREES, OR CROPS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly cut down,
destroy, girdle, or otherwise injure a vine, bush, shrub, sapling, tree, or
crop standing or growing on the land of another or upon public land.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is liable in treble damages for the
injury caused.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. (R.C.
§ 901.51) (Ord. 1839, passed 4-23-74) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.22 SHOPLIFTING.
   (A)   No person shall willfully alter any label, price tag, or marking upon
any merchandise offered for sale by any store or other retail mercantile
establishment with the intention of depriving the owner of all or some part of
the value thereof.
   (B)   No person shall willfully transfer any merchandise offered for sale by
any store or other retail mercantile establishment from the container in or on
which the same shall be displayed to any other container with intent to deprive
the owner of all or some part of the value thereof.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of shoplifting, a misdemeanor
of the third degree. (Ord. 1839, passed 4-23-74) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.23 DETENTION OF SHOPLIFTERS.
   (A)   A merchant, or his employee or agent, who has probable cause to
believe that items offered for sale by a mercantile establishment have been
unlawfully taken by a person, may, for the purposes set forth in subsection (C)
hereof, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of
time within the mercantile establishment or its immediate vicinity.
   (B)   Any officer, employee or agent of a library, museum or archival
institution may, for the purposes set forth in subsection (C) hereof or for the
purpose of conducting a reasonable investigation of a belief that the person
has acted in a manner described in subsections (B)(1) and (2) hereof, detain a
person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of time within, or in the
immediate vicinity of the library, museum or archival institution, if the
officer, employee or agent has probable cause to believe that the person has
either:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly moved, defaced, damaged,
destroyed or otherwise improperly tampered with property owned by or in the
custody of the library, museum or archival institution; or
      (2)   With purpose to deprive the library, museum or archival institution
of property owned by it or in its custody, knowingly obtained or exerted
control over the property without the consent of the owner or person authorized
to give consent, beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of the
owner or person authorized to give consent, by deception, or by threat.
   (C)   An officer, agent or employee of a library, museum or archival
institution pursuant to subsection (B) hereof or a merchant or his employee or
agent pursuant to subsection (A) hereof may detain another person for any of
the following purposes:
      (1)   To recover the property that is the subject of the unlawful taking,
criminal mischief or theft;
      (2)   To cause an arrest to be made by a peace officer;
      (3)   To obtain a warrant of arrest.
      (4)   To offer the person, if the person is suspected of the unlawful
taking, criminal mischief, or theft and notwithstanding any other provision of
this General Offenses or the Ohio Revised Code, an opportunity to complete a
pretrial diversion program and to inform the person of the other legal remedies
available to the library, museum, archival institution or merchant.
   (D)   The officer, agent or employee of the library, museum or archival
institution, or the merchant or his employee or agent acting under subsection
(A) or (B) hereof shall not search the person, search or seize any property
belonging to the person detained without the person's consent, or use undue
restraint upon the person detained.
   (E)   Any peace officer may arrest without a warrant any person that he has
probable cause to believe has committed any act described in subsection (B)(1)
or (2) hereof or that he has probable cause to believe has committed an
unlawful taking in a mercantile establishment. An arrest under this subsection
shall be made within a reasonable time after the commission of the act or
unlawful taking.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Archival institution" means any public or private building,
structure or shelter in which are stored historical documents, devices,
records, manuscripts or items of public interest, which historical materials
are stored to preserve the materials or the information in the materials, to
disseminate the information contained in the materials, or to make the
materials available for public inspection or for inspection by certain persons
who have a particular interest in, use for or knowledge concerning the
materials.
      (2)   "Museum" means any public or private nonprofit institution that is
permanently organized for primarily educational or aesthetic purposes, owns or
borrows objects or items of public interest, and cares for and exhibits to the
public the objects or items.
      (3)   "Pretrial diversion program" means a rehabilitative, educational
program designed to reduce recidivism and promote personal responsibility that
is at least four hours in length and that has been approved by any court in
this State.
(ORC 2935.041)
§ 133.24 IDENTITY FRAUD.
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Former Section
133.24 has been deleted from the Codified Ordinances. Ohio R.C. 2913.49, from
which Section
133.24 was derived, has been reclassified from a misdemeanor to a felony
offense.)
§ 133.25 TRESPASS ON A PLACE OF PUBLIC AMUSEMENT.
   (A)   As used in this section, “place of public amusement” means a stadium,
theater or other facility, whether licensed or not, at which a live
performance, sporting event, or other activity takes place for entertainment of
the public and to which access is made available to the public, regardless of
whether admission is charged.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly enter or remain
on any restricted portion of a place of public amusement and, as a result of
that conduct, interrupt or cause the delay of the live performance, sporting
event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement after a
printed written notice has been given as provided in subsection (D)(1) of this
section that the general public is restricted from access to that restricted
portion of the place of public amusement. A restricted portion of a place of
public amusement may include, but is not limited to, a playing field, an
athletic surface, or a stage located at the place of public amusement.
   (C)   An owner or lessee of a place of public amusement, an agent of the
owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a place of public amusement
may use reasonable force to restrain and remove a person from a restricted
portion of the place of public amusement if the person enters or remains on the
restricted portion of the place of public amusement and, as a result of that
conduct, interrupts or causes the delay of the live performance, sporting
event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement. This
subsection does not provide immunity from criminal liability for any use of
force beyond reasonable force by an owner or lessee of a place of public
amusement, an agent of either the owner or lessee, or a performer or
participant at a place of public amusement.
   (D)   (1)   Notice has been given that the general public is restricted from
access to a portion of a place of public amusement if a printed written notice
of the restricted access has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at the
entrance to that portion of the place of public amusement. If a printed written
notice is posted or exhibited as described in this subsection, regarding a
portion of a place of public amusement, in addition to that posting or
exhibition, notice that the general public is restricted from access to that
portion of the place of public amusement also may be given, but is not required
to be given, by either of the following means:
         (a)   By notifying the person personally, either orally or in writing,
that access to that portion of the place of public amusement is restricted;
         (b)   By broadcasting over the public address system of the place of
public amusement an oral warning that access to that portion of the public
place of amusement is restricted.
      (2)   If notice that the general public is restricted from access to a
portion of a place of public amusement is provided by the posting or exhibition
of a printed written notice as described in subsection (D)(1) of this section,
the Municipality, in a criminal prosecution for a violation of subsection (B)
of this section, is not required to prove that the defendant received actual
notice that the general public is restricted from access to a portion of a
place of public amusement.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates subsection (B) of this section is guilty of
criminal trespass on a place of public amusement, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   In addition to any jail term, fine or other sentence, penalty, or
sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to subsection (E)(1) of this
section, a court may require an offender who violates this section to perform
not less than thirty and not more than one hundred twenty hours of supervised
community service work.
(ORC 2911.23)
§ 133.26 RAILROAD VANDALISM; CRIMINAL TRESPASS; INTERFERENCE WITH OPERATION OF
TRAIN; GRADE CROSSING DEVICE VANDALISM.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any object
at, onto, or in the path of, any railroad rail, railroad track, locomotive,
engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company while such vehicle
is on a railroad track.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall climb upon or into any
locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company when
it is on a railroad track.
   (C)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall disrupt, delay, or
prevent the operation of any train or other vehicle of a railroad company while
such vehicle is on a railroad track.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of railroad
vandalism. Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of criminal
trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other railroad vehicle.
Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of interference with
the operation of a train. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad vandalism; criminal trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or
other railroad vehicle; and interference with the operation of a train each is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of division (A), (B), or
(C) of this section causes serious physical harm to property or creates a
substantial risk of physical harm to any person, causes physical harm to any
person, or causes serious physical harm to any person, the violation is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.10)
   (E)   No person shall knowingly deface, damage, obstruct, remove, or
otherwise impair the operation of any railroad grade crossing warning signal or
other protective device, including any gate, bell, light, crossbuck, stop sign,
yield sign, advance warning sign, or advance pavement marking.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of railroad
grade crossing device vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the violation of division (E) of this section causes serious physical harm
to property or creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person,
causes physical harm to any person, or causes serious physical harm to any
person, railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.101)
§ 133.27 DESECRATION.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall purposely deface, damage,
pollute, or otherwise physically mistreat any of the following:
      (1)   Any public monument;
      (2)   Any historical or commemorative marker, or any structure, Indian
mound or earthwork, cemetery, thing, or site of great historical or
archaeological interest;
      (3)   A place of worship, its furnishings, or religious artifacts or
sacred texts within the place of worship or within the grounds upon which the
place of worship is located;
      (4)   A work of art or museum piece;
      (5)   Any other object of reverence or sacred devotion.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of desecration. A violation of
division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the second degree. A violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   As used in this section, “cemetery” means any place of burial and
includes burial sites that contain American Indian burial objects placed with
or containing American Indian human remains.
(R.C. § 2927.11)
CHAPTER 134: HEALTH, SAFETY AND SANITATION
Section
134.01   Unvented heaters
134.02   Abandoned refrigerators and airtight containers
134.03   Barricades and warning lights; abandoned excavations
134.04   Sidewalk cleaning and obstructions; damage or injury
134.05   Notice to fill lots, remove putrid substances
134.06   Duty to keep sidewalks in repair and clean
134.07   Spitting
134.08   Littering and deposit of garbage, rubbish, junk, etc.
134.09   Noxious or offensive odors
§ 134.01 UNVENTED HEATERS.
   (A)   A brazier, salamander, space heater, room heater, furnace, water
heater, or other burner or heater using wood, coal, coke, fuel oil, kerosene,
gasoline, natural gas, liquid petroleum gas, or similar fuel, and tending to
give off carbon monoxide or other harmful gases;
      (1)   When used in living quarters, or in any enclosed building or space
in which persons are usually present, shall be used with a flue or vent so
designed, installed, and maintained as to vent the products of combustion
outdoors; except in storage, factory, or industrial buildings which are
provided with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide
poisoning;
      (2)   When used as a portable or temporary burner or heater at a
construction site, or in a warehouse, shed, or structure in which persons are
temporarily present, shall be vented as provided in division (A) (1) of this
section, or used with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon
monoxide poisoning.
   (B)   This section does not apply to domestic ranges, laundry stoves, gas
logs installed in a fireplace with an adequate flue, or hot plates, unless the
same are used as space or room heaters.
   (C)   No person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in
charge, or occupant of premises, negligently permit the use of a burner or
heater in violation of the standards for venting and ventilation provided in
this section.
   (D)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any kerosene-fired
space or room heater that is equipped with an automatic extinguishing tip-over
device, or to any natural gas-fired or liquid petroleum gas-fired space or room
heater that is equipped with an oxygen depletion safety shutoff system, and
that has its fuel piped from a source outside of the building in which it is
located, that are approved by an authoritative source recognized by the State
Fire Marshal in the State Fire Code adopted by him under R.C. § 3737.82.
   (E)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules to ensure the safe use of
unvented kerosene, natural gas, or liquid petroleum gas heaters exempted from
division (A) hereof when used in assembly buildings, business buildings, high-
hazard buildings, institutional buildings, mercantile buildings, and type R-
1 and R-2 residential buildings, as these groups of buildings are defined in
rules adopted by the Board of Building Standards under R.C. § 3781.10. No
person shall negligently use, or being the owner, person in charge, or occupant
of premises, negligently permit the use of a heater in violation of any rules
adopted under this division.
   (F)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules prescribing standards for
written instructions containing ventilation requirements and warning of any
potential fire hazards that may occur in using a kerosene, natural gas, or
liquid petroleum gas heater. No person shall sell or offer for sale any
kerosene, natural gas, or liquid petroleum gas heater unless the manufacturer
provides with the heater written instructions that comply with any rules
adopted under this division.
   (G)   No product labeled as a fuel additive for kerosene heaters and having
a flash point below 100° F. or 37.8° C. shall be sold, offered for sale, or
used in any kerosene space heater.
   (H)   No device that prohibits any safety feature on a kerosene, natural
gas, or liquid petroleum gas space heater from operating shall be sold, offered
for sale, or used in any kerosene, natural gas, or liquid petroleum gas space
heater.
   (I)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any kerosene-fired, natural
gas, or liquid petroleum gas-fired heater that is not exempt from division (A)
hereof unless it is marked conspicuously by the manufacturer on the container
with the phrase “Not approved for home use.”
   (J)   No person shall use a cabinet-type, liquid petroleum gas-fired heater
having a fuel source within the heater, inside any building, except as
permitted by the State Fire Marshal in the State Fire Code adopted by him under
R.C. § 3737.82.
   (K)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. (R.C. §§ 3701.82, 3701.99) (Ord. 1839, passed 4-23-74; Amend. Ord.
2558, passed 8-26-86) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.02 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS AND AIRTIGHT CONTAINERS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon, discard, or knowingly permit to remain on
premises under his control, in a place accessible to children, any abandoned or
discarded icebox, refrigerator or other airtight or semi-airtight container
which has a capacity of l-1/2 cubic feet or more and an opening of 50 square
inches or more and which has a door or lid equipped with hinge, latch or other
fastening device capable of securing such door or lid, without rendering the
equipment harmless to human life by removing such hinges, latches or other
hardware which may cause a person to be confined therein. This section shall
not apply to an icebox, refrigerator or other airtight or semi-airtight
container located in that part of a building occupied by a dealer, warehouseman
or repairman.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. (R.C. § 3767.29) (Ord. 1839, passed 4-23-74) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.03 BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS; ABANDONED EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon or knowingly permit to remain on public or
private property, any excavation, well, cesspool or structure which is in the
process of construction, reconstruction, repair or alteration unless the same
is adequately protected by suitable barricades and guarded by warning devices
or lights at night so that the condition will not reasonably prove dangerous to
life or limb.
   (B)   No person shall destroy, remove, damage, or extinguish any barricade
or warning light that is placed for the protection of the public so as to
prevent injury to life or limb.
   (C)   Any owner or agent in control of a premises upon which a basement,
cellar, well or cistern has been abandoned due to demolition, failure to build
or any other reason shall cause the same to be filled to the ground surfaces
with rock, gravel, earth or other suitable material.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. (Ord.
1839, passed 4-23-74)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.04 SIDEWALK CLEANING AND OBSTRUCTIONS; DAMAGE OR INJURY.
   (A)   Sidewalks to be cleaned of ice and snow. It shall be the duty of the
owner and of the tenant or person having the control of each and every parcel
of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the sidewalk
abutting his premises free and clear of snow and ice, and to remove therefrom
all snow and ice accumulated thereon within a reasonable time, which will
ordinarily not exceed 12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which
any snow and ice may have accumulated.
   (B)   Unloading on street or sidewalk. No person shall unload any heavy
material in the streets of the city by throwing or letting the same fall upon
the pavement of any street, sidewalk or other public way, without first placing
some sufficient protection over the pavement.
   (C)   Protecting sidewalks. In the transportation of any goods, materials or
equipment across any sidewalk in the city, sufficient temporary planking shall
be used to protect such sidewalks from breakage, and such temporary planking
shall be removed at the close of each working day and the surface of the
sidewalk immediately cleaned and left in a passable condition.
   (D)   Materials on street or sidewalk. No person shall encumber any street
or sidewalk, or, being the owner, occupant or person having care of any
building, or lot of land bordering on any street or sidewalk, shall permit the
same to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans, articles or substances of any
kind, so as to interfere with the free and unobstructed use thereof.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. (Ord.
1839, passed 4-23-74)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.05 NOTICE TO FILL LOTS, REMOVE PUTRID SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall fail to comply with the following requirements within
the lawful time after service or publication of the notice or resolution is
made as required by law:
      To fill or drain any lot or land or remove all putrid substances
therefrom, or remove all obstructions from culverts, covered drains or natural
watercourses as provided in R.C. § 715.47.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. (Ord.
1839, passed 4-23-74)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.06 DUTY TO KEEP SIDEWALKS IN REPAIR AND CLEAN.
   (A)   No owner or occupant of abutting lands shall fail to keep the
sidewalks, curbs or gutters in repair and free from snow, ice or any nuisance.
   (B)   (1)   No owner of any lot or land abutting on any street shall refuse,
fail, or neglect to repair or keep in repair and free from nuisance and
obstruction, the sidewalks, curbs, or gutters in front of such lot or land
after due notice of a resolution of Council ordering the repair of such
sidewalks, curbs, or gutters, the removal of such obstruction or the abatement
of such nuisance.
      (2)   If the owner or person having charge of such land fails to comply
with such notice, Council may cause the sidewalks, curbs, or gutters to be
repaired. When construction or repair is done by the city, the cost shall be
assessed against the abutting property owner.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. (Ord.
1839, passed 4-23-74; amend. Ord. 2332, passed 6-22-82) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.07 SPITTING.
   (A)   No person shall spit, excrete or expectorate any saliva or sputum upon
any sidewalk, or on the floor of any public conveyance, building, theater or
assembly hall, except in receptacles provided for such purpose.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. (Ord.
1839, passed 4-23-74)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.08 LITTERING AND DEPOSIT OF GARBAGE, RUBBISH, JUNK, ETC.
   (A)   No person shall, without lawful authority, place or dispose of in any
manner, upon any public property or upon the premises of another, any paper,
trash, garbage, waste, rubbish, refuse, junk or any substance or material which
is or may become noxious, offensive, injurious or dangerous to the public
health, comfort or safety.
   (B)   No person shall cause or allow trash, garbage, waste, rubbish, refuse
or any other noxious or offensive materials or substances to be collected or
remain in any place to the damage or prejudice of others or of the public, or
unlawfully obstruct, impede, divert, corrupt or render unwholesome or impure,
any natural watercourse.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a fourth degree misdemeanor
for a first offense and for each subsequent offense the person shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor in the first degree. In addition to all other penalties
imposed for a violation of this section, the court shall require the offender
to remove or pay the cost of removing such paper, trash, garbage, waste,
rubbage, refuse, junk, or other such material which was deposited on the public
or private property. (Ord. 1839, passed 4-23-74; Am. Ord. 2476, passed 11-27-
84) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.09 NOXIOUS OR OFFENSIVE ODORS.
   (A)   No person shall erect, continue, use or maintain a dwelling, building,
structure or place for a residence or for the exercise of a trade, employment
or business, or for the keeping or feeding of an animal which, by occasioning
noxious exhalations or noisome or offensive smells, becomes injurious to the
health, comfort or property of individuals or of the public.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. (Ord.
1839, passed 4-23-74)
Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 135: JUSTICE AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
Section
135.01   Definitions
135.02   Falsification
135.03   Having an unlawful interest in a public contract
135.04   Soliciting or receiving improper compensation
135.05   Dereliction of duty
135.06   Interfering with civil rights
135.07   Presenting false name or information to officer
§ 135.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   DETENTION. Arrest, confinement in any vehicle subsequent to an arrest,
confinement in any public or private facility for custody of persons charged
with or convicted of a crime in this State or another state or under the laws
of the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent child or unruly
child in this State or another state or under the laws of the United States;
hospitalization, institutionalization or confinement in any public or private
facility that is ordered pursuant to or under the authority of Ohio R.C.
2945.37, 2945.371, 2945.38, 2945.39 or 2945.40, 2945.401 or 2945.402;
confinement in any vehicle for transportation to or from any facility of any of
those natures; detention for extradition or deportation, except as provided in
this subsection, supervision by any employee of any facility of any of those
natures; that is incidental to hospitalization, institutionalization or
confinement in the facility but that occurs outside the facility; supervision
by an employee of the Department of Rehabilitation and Correction of a person
on any type of release from a State correctional institution; or confinement in
any vehicle, airplane, or place while being returned from outside of this State
into this State by a private person or entity pursuant to a contract entered
into under Ohio R.C. 311.29(E) or Ohio R.C. 5149.03(B). For a person confined
in a county jail who participates in a county jail industry program pursuant to
Ohio R.C. 5147.30, "detention" includes time spent at an assigned work site and
going to and from the work site.
   DETENTION FACILITY. Any public or private place used for the confinement of
a person charged with or convicted of crime in this state or another state or
under the laws of the United States or alleged or found to be delinquent child
or unruly child in this state or another state or under the laws of the United
States.
   OFFICIAL PROCEEDING. Any proceeding before a legislative, judicial,
administrative, or other governmental agency or official authorized to take
evidence under oath, and includes any proceeding before a referee, hearing
examiner, commissioner, notary, or other person taking testimony or a
deposition in connection with an official proceeding.
   PROVIDER AGREEMENT has the same meanings as in R.C. § 5164.01.
   PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Any elected or appointed officer, or employee, or agent of
the state or any political subdivision thereof, whether in a temporary or
permanent capacity, and includes, but is not limited to, legislators, judges,
and law enforcement officers.
   PUBLIC SERVANT. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any public official;
      (2)   Any person performing ad hoc a governmental function, including,
but not limited to, a juror, member of a temporary commission, master,
arbitrator, advisor, or consultant;
      (3)   A person who is a candidate for public office, whether or not the
person is elected or appointed to the office for which the person is a
candidate. A person is a candidate for purposes of this division if the person
has been nominated according to law for election or appointment to public
office, or if the person has filed a petition or petitions as required by law
to have the person's name placed on the ballot in a primary, general, or
special election, or if the person campaigns as a write-in candidate in any
primary, general, or special election. (R.C. § 2921.01)
(Ord. 1839, passed 4-23-74)
§ 135.02 FALSIFICATION.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly swear
or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, when any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The statement is made in any official proceeding.
      (2)   The statement is made with purpose to incriminate another.
      (3)   The statement is made with purpose to mislead a public official in
performing the public official’s official function.
      (4)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the payment of
unemployment compensation; Ohio works first; prevention, retention and
contingency benefits and services; disability financial assistance; retirement
benefits or health care coverage from a state retirement system; economic
development assistance as defined in Ohio R.C. 9.66; or other benefits
administered by a governmental agency or paid out of a public treasury.
      (5)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the issuance by a
governmental agency of a license, permit, authorization, certificate,
registration, release or provider agreement.
      (6)   The statement is sworn or affirmed before a notary public or
another person empowered to administer oaths.
      (7)   The statement is in writing on or in connection with a report or
return that is required or authorized by law.
      (8)   The statement is in writing, and is made with purpose to induce
another to extend credit to or employ the offender, or to confer any degree,
diploma, certificate of attainment, award of excellence or honor on the
offender, or to extend to or bestow upon the offender any other valuable
benefit or distinction, when the person to whom the statement is directed
relies upon it to that person’s detriment.
      (9)   The statement is made with purpose to commit or facilitate the
commission of a theft offense.
      (10)   The statement is knowingly made to a probate court in connection
with any action, proceeding or other matter within its jurisdiction, either
orally or in a written document, including, but not limited to, an application,
petition, complaint or other pleading, or an inventory, account or report.
      (11)   The statement is made on an account, form, record, stamp, label or
other writing that is required by law.
      (12)   The statement is made in a document or instrument of writing that
purports to be a judgment, lien, or claim of indebtedness and is filed or
recorded with the Secretary of State, a county recorder, or the clerk of a
court of record.
      (13)   The statement is required under Ohio R.C. 5743.71 in connection
with the person’s purchase of cigarettes or tobacco products in a delivery
sale.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under subsection (A)(6) hereof that the
oath or affirmation was administered or taken in an irregular manner.
   (C)   If contradictory statements relating to the same fact are made by the
offender within the period of the statute of limitations for falsification, it
is not necessary for the prosecution to prove which statement was false, but
only that one or the other was false.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of subsection (A)(1) to (8) or
(10) to (13) hereof is guilty of falsification, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates subsection (A)(9) hereof is guilty of
falsification in a theft offense, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
value of the property or services stolen is one thousand dollars ($1,000) or
more, falsification in a theft offense is a felony and shall be prosecuted
under appropriate State law.
   (E)   A person who violates this section is liable in a civil action to any
person harmed by the violation for injury, death, or loss to person or property
incurred as a result of the commission of the offense and for reasonable
attorney’s fees, court costs, and other expenses incurred as a result of
prosecuting the civil action commenced under this section. A civil action under
this section is not the exclusive remedy of a person who incurs injury, death,
or loss to person or property as a result of a violation of this section.
(ORC 2921.13)
§ 135.03 HAVING AN UNLAWFUL INTEREST IN A PUBLIC CONTRACT.
   (A)   No public official shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   During the public official’s term of office or within one year
thereafter, occupy any position of profit in the prosecution of a public
contract authorized by the public official or by a legislative body, commission
or board of which the public official was a member at the time of authorization
unless the contract was let by competitive bidding, to the lowest and best
bidder;
      (2)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
entered into by or for the use of the Municipality or governmental agency or
instrumentality with which the public official is connected;
      (3)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
that is not let by competitive bidding if required by law, and that involves
more than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
   (B)   In the absence of bribery or a purpose to defraud, a public official,
member of a public official’s family or any of a public official’s business
associates shall not be considered as having an interest in a public contract
if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The interest of that person is limited to owning or controlling
shares of the corporation, or being a creditor of the corporation or other
organization that is the contractor on the public contract involved, or that is
the issuer of the security in which public funds are invested;
      (2)   The shares owned or controlled by that person do not exceed five
percent (5%) of the outstanding shares of the corporation, and the amount due
that person as creditor does not exceed five percent (5%) of the total
indebtedness of the corporation or other organization;
      (3)   That person, prior to the time the public contract is entered into,
files with the Municipality or governmental agency or instrumentality involved,
an affidavit giving that person’s exact status in connection with the
corporation or other organization.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a public contract in which a public
official, member of a public official’s family, or one of a public official’s
business associates, has an interest, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The subject of the public contract is necessary supplies or
services for the Municipality or governmental agency or instrumentality
involved;
      (2)   The supplies or services are unobtainable elsewhere for the same or
lower cost, or are being furnished to the Municipality or governmental agency
or instrumentality as part of a continuing course of dealing established prior
to the public official's becoming associated with the Municipality or
governmental agency or instrumentality involved;
      (3)   The treatment accorded the Municipality or governmental agency or
instrumentality is either preferential to or the same as that accorded other
customers or clients in similar transactions;
      (4)   The entire transaction is conducted at arm's length, with full
knowledge by the Municipality or governmental agency or instrumentality
involved, of the interest of the public official, member of the public
official’s family or business associate, and the public official takes no part
in the deliberations or decisions of the Municipality or governmental agency or
instrumentality with respect to the public contract.
   (D)   Subsection (A)(4) does not prohibit participation by a public employee
in any housing program funded by public moneys if the public employee otherwise
qualifies for the program and does not use the authority or influence of the
public employee’s office or employment to secure benefits from the program and
if the moneys are to be used on the primary residence of the public employee.
Such participation does not constitute an unlawful interest in a public
contract in violation of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having an unlawful interest
in a public contract. Violation of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
   (F)   It is not a violation of this section for a prosecuting attorney to
appoint assistants and employees in accordance with Ohio R.C. 309.06 and
2921.421, or for a chief legal officer of a municipal corporation or an
official designated as prosecutor in a municipal corporation to appoint
assistants and employees in accordance with Ohio R.C. 733.621 and 2921.421.
   (G)   Any public contract in which a public official, a member of the public
official’s family, or any of the public official’s business associates has an
interest in violation of this section is void and unenforceable. Any contract
securing the investment of public funds in which a public official, a member of
the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any brokerage,
origination, or servicing fees and that was entered into in violation of this
section is void and unenforceable.
   (H)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Public contract" means any of the following:
         A.   The purchase or acquisition, or a contract for the purchase or
acquisition of property or services by or for the use of the State, any of its
political subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either, including
the employment of an individual by the State, any of its political
subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either.
         B.   A contract for the design, construction, alteration, repair or
maintenance of any public property.
      (2)   "Chief legal officer" has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 733.621.
(ORC 2921.42)
§ 135.04 SOLICITING OR RECEIVING IMPROPER COMPENSATION.
   (A)   No public servant shall knowingly solicit or accept, and no person
shall knowingly promise or give to a public servant, either of the following:
      (1)   Any compensation other than as allowed by R.C. §§ 102.03(G), (H),
(I), or other provisions of law, to perform his official duties, to perform any
other act or service in the public servant's public capacity, for the general
performance of the duties of the public servant's public office or public
employment, or as a supplement to the public servant's public compensation.
      (2)   Additional or greater fees or costs than are allowed by law to
perform his official duties.
   (B)   No public servant for his own personal or business use and no person
for his own personal or business use or for the personal or business use of a
public servant or party official, shall solicit or accept anything of value in
consideration of either of the following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency;
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to his compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of his employment.
   (C)   No person for the benefit of a political party, campaign committee, or
a legislative campaign fund as defined in R.C. § 3517.01, shall coerce any
contribution, as defined in R.C. § 3517.01, in consideration of either of the
following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency;
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to his compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of his employment.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of soliciting improper
compensation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   A public servant who is convicted of a violation of this section is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of trust
in this state for a period of 7 years from the date of conviction.
   (F)   Divisions (A), (B), and (C) of this section do not prohibit a person
from making voluntary contributions to a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund or political action committee, or prohibit a
political party, campaign committee, legislative campaign fund or political
action committee from accepting voluntary contributions. (R.C. § 2921.43) (Ord.
1839, passed 4-23-74) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.05 DERELICTION OF DUTY.
   (A)   No law enforcement officer shall negligently do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to serve a lawful warrant without delay;
      (2)   Fail to prevent or halt the commission of an offense or to
apprehend an offender, when it is in the law enforcement officer’s power to do
so alone or with available assistance.
   (B)   No law enforcement, ministerial or judicial officer shall negligently
fail to perform a lawful duty in a criminal case or proceeding.
   (C)   No officer, having charge of a detention facility, shall negligently
do any of the following:
      (1)   Allow the detention facility to become littered or unsanitary;
      (2)   Fail to provide persons confined in the detention facility with
adequate food, clothing, bedding, shelter and medical attention;
      (3)   Fail to control an unruly prisoner, or to prevent intimidation of
or physical harm to a prisoner by another;
      (4)   Allow a prisoner to escape;
      (5)   Fail to observe any lawful and reasonable regulation for the
management of the detention facility.
   (D)   No public official of the Municipality shall recklessly create a
deficiency, incur a liability or expend a greater sum than is appropriated by
the legislative authority of the Municipality for the use in any one year of
the department, agency or institution with which the public official is
connected.
   (E)   No public servant shall recklessly fail to perform a duty expressly
imposed by law with respect to the public servant’s office, or recklessly do
any act expressly forbidden by law with respect to the public servant’s office.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of dereliction of duty, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   As used in this section, “public servant” includes an officer or
employee of a contractor as defined in Ohio R.C. 9.08.
(ORC 2921.44)
§ 135.06 INTERFERING WITH CIVIL RIGHTS.
   (A)   No public servant, under color of the public servant’s office,
employment, or authority, shall knowingly deprive, or conspire or attempt to
deprive any person of a constitutional or statutory right.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interfering with civil
rights, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.45) (Ord. 1839, passed 4-23-74) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Restraining or confining pregnant children or pregnant women, see R.C. §
2152.75(B) and R.C. § 2901.10
§ 135.07 PRESENTING FALSE NAME OR INFORMATION TO OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly present, display, or orally communicate a
false name, social security number, or date of birth to a law enforcement
officer who is in the process of issuing to the person a traffic ticket or
complaint. (R.C. § 4513.361)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. (R.C. § 4513.99(H))
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
136.01   Negligent homicide
136.02   Vehicular homicide; vehicular manslaughter; vehicular assault
136.03   Assault
136.04   Negligent assault
136.05   Aggravated menacing
136.051   Menacing by stalking
136.06   Menacing
136.07   Unlawful restraint
136.08   Endangering children
136.09   Coercion
136.10   Telecommunication harassment
136.11   Misuse of 9-1-1 system
136.12   Drug abuse
136.13   Abusing harmful intoxicants
136.14   Counterfeit controlled substances
136.15   Hazing prohibited
136.16   False report of child abuse or neglect
136.17   Illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products or
alternate nicotine products
136.18   Reserved
136.19   Contributing to unruliness or delinquency of a child
136.20   Adult use cannabis control; limitations on conduct by individuals
§ 136.01 NEGLIGENT HOMICIDE.
   (A)   No person shall negligently cause the death of another or the unlawful
termination of another's pregnancy by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance as defined in §
139.01.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of negligent homicide, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. (R.C. § 2903.05) (Ord. 1839, passed 4-23-74)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 136.02 VEHICULAR HOMICIDE; VEHICULAR MANSLAUGHTER; VEHICULAR ASSAULT.
   (A)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle, motorcycle, snowmobile, locomotive, watercraft, or aircraft,
shall cause the death of another or the unlawful termination of another’s
pregnancy in any of the following ways:
      (1)   (a)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4511.19(A) or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
1547.11(A), or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         (c)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4561.15(A)(3), or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Recklessly;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a reckless operation offense, provided that this division
applies only if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is
unlawfully terminated is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s
commission of the reckless operation offense in the construction zone and does
not apply as described in division (D) of this section.
      (3)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Negligently;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this division applies only
if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is unlawfully terminated
is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s commission of the
speeding offense in the construction zone and does not apply as described in
division (D) of this section.
      (4)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of any provision
of any section contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor or of a
municipal ordinance that, regardless of the penalty set by ordinance for the
violation, is substantially equivalent to any provision of any section
contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of aggravated vehicular homicide, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) of this section is guilty of
vehicular homicide. Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
homicide is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular homicide committed in
violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving
under a suspension or cancellation imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other
provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was operating a motor vehicle or
motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege, and was not eligible for renewal of the offender’s driver’s license
or commercial driver’s license without examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of this section or any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault
offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class four suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of
vehicular manslaughter. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
vehicular manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the second degree. Vehicular
manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the first degree if, at the time of the
offense, the offender was driving under a suspension or cancellation imposed
under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was
operating a motor vehicle or motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege, and was not eligible for renewal
of the offender’s driver’s license or commercial driver’s license without
examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or any traffic-
related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class six suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6) or, if the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, any
traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense, or a traffic-
related murder, felonious assault, or attempted murder offense, a class four
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
   (C)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least 15 days on an
offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation of
division (A)(3)(b) of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
   (D)   Divisions (A)(2)(b) and (A)(3)(b) of this section do not apply in a
particular construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. §
2903.081 are erected in that construction zone in accordance with the
guidelines and design specifications established by the Director of
Transportation under R.C. § 5501.27. The failure to erect signs of the type
described in R.C. § 2903.081 in a particular construction zone in accordance
with those guidelines and design specifications does not limit or affect the
application of division (A)(1), (A)(2)(a), (A)(3)(a), or (A)(4) of this section
in that construction zone or the prosecution of any person who violates any of
those divisions in that construction zone.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section:
         CONSTRUCTION ZONE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
         RECKLESS OPERATION OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 4511.20 or a
municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to R.C. § 4511.20.
         SPEEDING OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 4511.21 or a municipal
ordinance pertaining to speed.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER, OR ASSAULT OFFENSE. Means a
violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in circumstances in which  division (D) of that
section applies, a violation of R.C. § 2903.06 or 2903.08, or a violation of
R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.07, or 2903.08 as they existed prior to March 23, 2000.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED MURDER, FELONIOUS ASSAULT, OR ATTEMPTED MURDER
OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 in circumstances
in which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to commit the
violation, a violation of R.C. § 2903.11(A)(2) in circumstances in which the
deadly weapon used in the commission of the violation is a motor vehicle, or an
attempt to commit aggravated murder or murder in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 in
circumstances in which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to
attempt to commit the aggravated murder or murder.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, when a penalty or suspension is
enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a prior
or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the specified
law or the specified offense includes any violation of any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or current or former
law of this or another state or the United States.
(R.C. § 2903.06)
   (F)   Vehicular assault.
      (1)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle or motorcycle, shall cause serious physical harm to another
person or another’s unborn as the proximate result of committing, while
operating or participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in
a construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this division applies
only if the person to whom the serious physical harm is caused or to whose
unborn the serious physical harm is caused is in the construction zone at the
time of the offender’s commission of the speeding offense in the construction
zone and does not apply as described in division (F)(4) of this section.
      (2)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
assault committed in violation of division (F)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular assault committed in violation of
division (F)(1) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving under a
suspension imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio
Revised Code or if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (F)(1) of this section, R.C. § 2903.08, or
any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed, the court shall
impose upon the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least seven days
on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation
of division (F)(1) of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
      (4)   Division (F)(1) of this section does not apply in a particular
construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. § 2903.081 are
erected in that construction zone in accordance with the guidelines and design
specifications established by the Director of Transportation under R.C. §
5501.27.
      (5)   As used in this division (F):
         CONSTRUCTION ZONE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         SPEEDING OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER, OR ASSAULT OFFENSE. Has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
      (6)   For the purposes of this division (F), when a penalty or suspension
is enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a
prior or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the
specified law or the specified offense includes any violation of any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or
current or former law of another state or the United States.
(R.C. 2903.08(A)(3), (C)(3), (D)(3), (E) - (G))
Statutory reference:
   Trial court to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. § 4510.05
   Vehicular assault and aggravated vehicular assault, felony offenses, see
R.C. § 2903.08
§ 136.03 ASSAULT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm to
another or to another’s unborn.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to another or
to another’s unborn.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of
assault. Except as provided in R.C. § 2903.13(C), assault is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
   (D)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to assault when it
is a misdemeanor also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification as
described in R.C. § 2941.1423 (victim of the offense was a woman whom the
defendant knew was pregnant at the time of the offense) that was included in
the indictment, count in the indictment, or information charging the offense,
the court shall sentence the offender to a mandatory jail term as provided in
R.C. § 2929.24(F).
   (E)   A prosecution for a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section
does not preclude a prosecution of a violation of any other section of the Ohio
Revised Code. One or more acts, a series of acts, or a course of behavior that
can be prosecuted under division (A) or (B) of this section or any other
section of the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under division (A) or (B) of
this section, the other section of the Ohio Revised Code, or both sections.
However, if an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) or (B) of this section and also is convicted of or pleads guilty
to a violation of R.C. § 2903.22, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, based on the same conduct involving the same victim that was the
basis of the violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, the offenses are
allied offenses of similar import under R.C. § 2941.25.
(R.C. § 2903.13)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated and felonious assault, see R.C. §§ 2903.11 and 2903.12
   Felony assault offenses, see R.C. § 2903.13(C)
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
   Persons who may seek relief under anti- stalking protection order; ex parte
orders, see R.C. § 2903.214
   Protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. § 2903.213
   Strangulation, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.18
   Vehicular assault and aggravated vehicular assault, felony offenses, see
R.C. § 2903.08
§ 136.04 NEGLIGENT ASSAULT.
   (A)   No person shall negligently, by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance as defined in Section
139.01 cause physical harm to another or to another’s unborn.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of negligent assault, a
misdemeanor of the third degree. (ORC 2903.14)
§ 136.05 AGGRAVATED MENACING.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the offender
will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the other person,
the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate family.
In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that the offender
will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the other person,
the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate family,
the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of the offender that
are directed at or identify a corporation, association or other organization
that employs the other person or to which the other person belongs.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of aggravated menacing. Except
as otherwise provided in this subsection (b), aggravated menacing is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the victim of the offense is an officer or
employee of a public children services agency or a private child placing agency
and the offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or
anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties, or, if the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to an offense of
violence, the victim of that prior offense was an officer or employee of a
public children services agency or private child placing agency, and that prior
offense related to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated
performance of official responsibilities or duties, aggravated menacing is a
felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
   (C)   As used in this section, “organization” includes an entity that is a
governmental employer. (ORC 2903.21)
§ 136.051 MENACING BY STALKING.
   (A)   (1)   No person by engaging in a pattern of conduct shall knowingly
cause another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
the other person or a family or household member of the other person or cause
mental distress to the other person or a family or household member of the
other person. In addition to any other basis for the other person's belief that
the offender will cause physical harm to the other person or the other person's
family or household member or mental distress to the other person or the other
person's family or household member, the other person's belief or mental
distress may be based on words or conduct of the offender that are directed at
or identify a corporation, association or other organization that employs the
other person or to which the other person belongs.
      (2)   No person, through the use of any form of written communication or
any electronic method of remotely transferring information, including, but not
limited to, any computer, computer network, computer program, computer system
or telecommunication device shall post a message or use any intentionally
written or verbal graphic gesture with purpose to do either of the following:
         (a)   Violate subsection (A)(1) of this section;
         (b)   Urge or incite another to commit a violation of subsection (A)
(1) of this section.
      (3)   No person, with sexual motivation, shall violate subsection (a)(1)
or (2) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of menacing by stalking.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in subsections (B)(2) and (3) of this
section, menacing by stalking is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Menacing by stalking is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate State law if any of the following applies:
         (a)   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of this section or a violation of Section 541.051.
         (b)   In committing the offense under subsection (A)(1), (2), or (3)
of this section, the offender made a threat of physical harm to or against the
victim, or as a result of an offense committed under subsection (A)(2) or (3)
of this section, a third person induced by the offender's posted message made a
threat of physical harm to or against the victim.
         (c)   In committing the offense under subsection (A)(1), (2), or (3)
of this section, the offender trespassed on the land or premises where the
victim lives, is employed, or attends school, or as a result of an offense
committed under subsection (A)(2) or (3) of this section, a third person
induced by the offender's posted message trespassed on the land or premises
where the victim lives, is employed, or attends school.
         (d)   The victim of the offense is a minor.
         (e)   The offender has a history of violence toward the victim or any
other person or a history of other violent acts toward the victim or any other
person.
         (f)   While committing the offense under subsection (A)(1) of this
section or a violation of subsection (A)(3) of this section is based on conduct
in violation of subsection (A)(1) of this section, the offender had a deadly
weapon on or about the offender's person or under the offender's control.
Subsection (B)(2)(f) of this section does not apply in determining the penalty
for a violation of subsection (A)(2) of this section or a violation of
subsection (A)(3) of this section based on conduct in violation of subsection
(A)(1) of this section.
         (g)   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
the subject of a protection order issued under Ohio R.C. 2903.213 or 2903.214,
regardless of whether the person to be protected under the order is the victim
of the offense or another person.
         (h)   In committing the offense under subsection (A)(1), (2), or (3)
of this section, the offender caused serious physical harm to the premises at
which the victim resides, to the real property on which that premises is
located, or to any personal property located on that premises, or as a result
of an offense committed under subsection (A)(2) of this section, or an offense
committed under subsection (A)(3) of this section based on a violation of
subsection (A)(2) of this section, a third person induced by the offender's
posted message caused serious physical harm to that premises, that real
property, or any personal property on that premises.
         (i)   Prior to committing the offense, the offender had been
determined to represent a substantial risk of physical harm to others as
manifested by evidence of then-recent homicidal or other violent behavior,
evidence of then-recent threats that placed another in reasonable fear of
violent behavior and serious physical harm, or other evidence of then-present
dangerousness.
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a public
children services agency or a private child placing agency and the offense
relates to the officer's or employee's performance or anticipated performance
of official responsibilities or duties, or, if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that
prior offense was an officer or employee of a public children services agency
or private child placing agency, and that prior offense related to the
officer's or employee's performance or anticipated performance of official
responsibilities, or duties, menacing by stalking is a felony and shall be
prosecuted under appropriate State law.
   (C)   Ohio R.C. 2919.271 applies in relation to a defendant charged with a
violation of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Pattern of conduct" means two or more actions or incidents closely
related in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any
of those actions or incidents, or two or more actions or incidents closely
related in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any
of those actions or incidents, directed at one or more persons employed by or
belonging to the same corporation, association, or other organization. Actions
or incidents that prevent, obstruct, or delay the performance by a public
official, firefighter, rescuer, emergency medical services person, or emergency
facility person of any authorized act within the public official's,
firefighter's, rescuer's, emergency medical services person's, or emergency
facility person's official capacity, or the posting of messages, use of
intentionally written or verbal graphic gestures, or receipt of information or
data through the use of any form of written communication or an electronic
method of remotely transferring information, including, but not limited to, a
computer, computer network, computer program, computer system, or
telecommunications device, may constitute a "pattern of conduct".
      (2)   "Mental distress" means any of the following:
         (a)   Any mental illness or condition that involves some temporary
substantial incapacity;
         (b)   Any mental illness or condition that would normally require
psychiatric treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health
services, whether or not any person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health services.
      (3)   "Emergency medical services person" is the singular of "emergency
medical services personnel" as defined in Ohio R.C. 2133.21.
      (4)   "Emergency facility person" is the singular of "emergency facility
personnel" as defined in Ohio R.C. 2909.04.
      (5)   "Public official" has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2921.01.
      (6)   "Computer", "computer network", "computer program", "computer
system" and "telecommunications device" have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C.
2913.01.
      (7)   "Post a message" means transferring, sending, posting, publishing,
disseminating or otherwise communicating, or attempting to transfer, send,
post, publish, disseminate or otherwise communication, any message or
information, whether truthful or untruthful, about an individual, and whether
done under one's own name, under the name of another, or while impersonating
another.
      (8)   "Third person" means, in relation to conduct as described in
subsection (A)(2) of this section, an individual who is neither the offender
nor the victim of the conduct.
      (9)   "Sexual motivation" has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2971.01.
      (10)   "Organization" includes an entity that is a governmental employer.
      (11)   "Family or household member" means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
person against whom the act prohibited in subsection (A)(1) of this section is
committed:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse of
the person;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the person, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the person;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the person, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
person.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the person against whom
the act prohibited in subsection (A((1) of this section is committed is the
other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
      (12)   "Person living as a spouse" means a person who is living or has
lived with the person against whom the act prohibited in subsection (A)(1) of
this section is committed in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise
is cohabiting with that person, or who otherwise has cohabited with the person
within five years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in
question.
   (E)   The Municipality does not need to prove in a prosecution under this
section that a person requested or received psychiatric treatment,
psychological treatment, or other mental health services in order to show that
the person was caused mental distress as described in subsection (D)(2)(b) of
this section.
   (F)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person solely because the
person provided access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person's control, including
having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access or
connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection. In addition, any
person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person's control shall not be
liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the receipt or
transmission through its service of any information that it believes is, or
will be sent, in violation of this section.
      (2)   Subsection (F)(1) of this section does not create an affirmative
duty for any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic
method of remotely transferring information not under that person's control to
block the receipt or transmission through its service of any information that
it believes is, or will be sent, in violation of this section except as
otherwise provided by law.
      (3)   Subsection (F)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of this section or who knowingly
advertises the availability of material of that nature. (ORC 2903.211)
§ 136.06 MENACING.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate
family. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate
family, the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of the
offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or other
organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly place or attempt to place another in
reasonable fear of physical harm or death by displaying a deadly weapon,
regardless of whether the deadly weapon displayed is operable or inoperable, if
either of the following applies:
         (a)   The other person is an emergency service responder, the person
knows or reasonably should know that the other person is an emergency service
responder, and it is the person’s specific purpose to engage in the specified
conduct against an emergency service responder.
         (b)   The other person is a family or household member or co-worker of
an emergency service responder, the person knows or reasonably should know that
the other person is a family or household member or co-worker of an emergency
service responder, and it is the person’s specific purpose to engage in the
specified conduct against a family or household member or co-worker of an
emergency service responder.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of menacing. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, menacing is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If the victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a public
children services agency or a private child placing agency and the offense
relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated performance
of official responsibilities or duties or if the victim of the offense is an
emergency service responder in the performance of the responder’s official
duties, menacing is one of the following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) of this section, a
misdemeanor of the first degree;
      (2)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an officer or
employee of a public children services agency or private child placing agency
or an emergency service responder, and that prior offense related to the
officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated performance of official
responsibilities or duties or to the responder’s performance of the responder’s
official duties, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   A prosecution for a violation of this section does not preclude a
prosecution of a violation of any other section of the Ohio Revised Code. One
or more acts, a series of acts, or a course of behavior that can be prosecuted
under this section or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code may be
prosecuted under this section, the other section of the Ohio Revised Code, or
both sections. However, if an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of this section and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of R.C. § 2903.13, or any substantially similar municipal ordinance,
based on the same conduct involving the same victim that was the basis of the
violation of this section, the offenses are allied offenses of similar import
under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      CO-WORKER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 2903.13.
      EMERGENCY SERVICE RESPONDER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 2903.13.
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2903.13.
      ORGANIZATION. Includes an entity that is a governmental employer.
§ 136.07 UNLAWFUL RESTRAINT.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly restrain
another of the other person’s liberty.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so and with a sexual motivation,
shall knowingly restrain another of the other person’s liberty.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful restraint, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, “sexual motivation” has the same meaning as
in Ohio R.C. 2971.01. (ORC 2905.03)
§ 136.08 ENDANGERING CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person, who is the parent, guardian, custodian, person having
custody or control, or person in loco parentis of a child under 18 years of age
or a child with a mental or physical disability under 21 years of age, shall
create a substantial risk to the health or safety of the child by violating a
duty of care, protection, or support. It is not a violation of a duty of care,
protection, or support under this division when the parent, guardian,
custodian, or person having custody or control of a child treats the physical
or mental illness or disability of the child by spiritual means through prayer
alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious body.
   (B)   No person shall do any of the following to a child under 18 years of
age or a child with a mental or physical disability under 21 years of age:
      (1)   Abuse the child.
      (2)   Torture or cruelly abuse the child.
      (3)   Administer corporal punishment or other physical disciplinary
measure, or physically restrain the child in a cruel manner or for a prolonged
period, which punishment, discipline or restraint is excessive under the
circumstances and creates a substantial risk of serious physical harm to the
child.
      (4)   Repeatedly administer unwarranted disciplinary measures to a child
when there is a substantial risk that such conduct, if continued, will
seriously impair or retard the child’s mental health or development.
      (5)   Entice, coerce, permit, encourage, compel, hire, employ, use, or
allow the child to act, model, or in any other way participate in, or be
photographed for, the production, presentation, dissemination, or advertisement
of any material or performance that the offender knows or reasonably should
know is obscene, is sexually oriented matter, or is nudity- oriented matter;
      (6)   Allow the child to be on the same parcel of real property and
within 100 feet of, or, in the case of more than one housing unit on the same
parcel of real property, in the same housing unit and within 100 feet of, any
act in violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 when the person knows that the
act is occurring, whether or not any person is prosecuted for or convicted of
the violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 that is the basis of the violation
of this division.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle, as defined by R.C. § 4511.01,
within the municipality and in violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, when one or more children under
18 years of age are in the vehicle. Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
a person may be convicted at the same trial or proceeding of a violation of
this division and a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that constitutes the basis of the charge of the
violation of this division. For purposes of R.C. §§ 4511.191 through 4511.197
and all related provisions of law, a person arrested for a violation of this
division shall be considered to be under arrest for operating a vehicle while
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or
for operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
      (2)   As used in division (C)(1) of this section:
         CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
         VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (D)   (1)   Division (B)(5) of this section does not apply to any material
or performance that is produced, presented, or disseminated for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, religious, governmental, judicial, or other
proper purpose, by or to a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist,
teacher, person pursuing bona fide studies for research, librarian, member of
the clergy, prosecutor, judge, or other person having a proper interest in the
material or performance.
      (2)   Mistake of age is not a defense to a charge under division (B)(5)
of this section.
      (3)   In a prosecution under division (B)(5) of this section, the trier
of fact may infer that an actor, model, or participant in the material or
performance involved is a juvenile if the material or performance, through its
title, text, visual representation, or otherwise, represents or depicts the
actor, model, or participant as a juvenile.
      (4)   As used in this division and division (B)(5) of this section:
         MATERIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         NUDITY- ORIENTED MATTER means any material or performance that shows a
minor in a state of nudity and that, taken as a whole by the average person
applying contemporary community standards, appeals to the prurient interest.
         OBSCENE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         PERFORMANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         SEXUALLY ORIENTED MATTER. Means any material or performance that shows
a minor participating or engaging in sexual activity, masturbation, or
bestiality.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of endangering children.
      (1)   If the offender violates division (A) or (B)(1) of this section,
endangering children is one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(1)(b), (E)(1)(c) or
(E)(1)(d), a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of an offense
under this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, or of any offense involving neglect, abandonment, or contributing to
the delinquency of or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided
in division (E)(1)(c) or (E)(1)(d) of this section, endangering children is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation is a violation of division (A) of this section
and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (d)   If the violation is a violation of division (B)(1) of this
section and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender violates division (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(5) or
(B)(6) of this section, endangering children is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the offender violates division (C) of this section, the offender
shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   Except as provided in (E)(3)(b) or (E)(3)(c), endangering
children in violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
         (b)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
or if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any
offense involving neglect, abandonment, or contributing to the delinquency of
or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided in division (E)(3)
(c) of this section, endangering children in violation of division (C) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
and if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.08, 2919.22(C) or former R.C. § 2903.07 as it
existed prior to March 23, 2000, or R.C. § 2903.04, in a case in which the
offender was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that
section, endangering children in violation of division (C) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (d)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other
sentence, penalty or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to
divisions (E)(3)(a), (E)(3)(b) or (E)(3)(c) of this section or pursuant to any
other provision of law, and in addition to any suspension of the offender’s
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege under R.C. Chapter 4506, 4509, 4510, or 4511, or any other
provision of law, the court also may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(7).
         (e)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other
sentence, penalty or sanction imposed upon the offender pursuant to division
(E)(3)(a), (E)(3)(b), (E)(3)(c) or (E)(3)(d) of this section or pursuant to any
other provision of law for the violation of division (C) of this section, if as
a part of the same trial or proceeding the offender also is convicted of or
pleads guilty to a separate charge charging the violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A),
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the
charge of the violation of division (C) of this section, the offender also
shall be sentenced in accordance with R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, for that violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (F)   (1)   If a person violates division (C) of this section and if, at the
time of the violation, there were two or more children under 18 years of age in
the motor vehicle involved in the violation, the offender may be convicted of a
violation of division (C) of this section for each of the children, but the
court may sentence the offender for only one of the violations.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation
of division (C) of this section but the person is not also convicted of and
does not also plead guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A),
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the
charge of the violation of division (C) of this section, both the following
apply:
            1.   For purposes of the provisions of R.C. § 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that set forth the penalties and
sanctions for a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the conviction of or plea of guilty to the violation of
division (C) of this section shall not constitute a violation of R.C. § 4511.19
(A), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            2.   For purposes of the provisions of law that refers to a
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and that is not described in
division (F)(2)(a)1. of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty to
the violation of division (C) of this section shall constitute a conviction or
plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (C) of this section and the person also is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the charge of the
violation of division (C) of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty
to the violation of division (C) of this section shall not constitute, for the
purposes of any provision of law that refers to a conviction of or a plea of
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, a conviction of or a plea of guilty to a violation of R.C.
§ 4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 2919.22(A) - (E), (H))
Statutory reference:
   Community service, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(F)
   License suspension, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(G)
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
§ 136.09 COERCION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to coerce another into taking or refraining
from action concerning which the other person has a legal freedom of choice,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Threaten to commit any offense;
      (2)   Utter or threaten any calumny against any person;
      (3)   Expose or threaten to expose any matter tending to subject any
person to hatred, contempt or ridicule, to damage any person’s personal or
business repute, or to impair any person’s credit;
      (4)   Institute or threaten criminal proceedings against any person;
      (5)   Take or withhold, or threaten to take or withhold official action,
or cause or threaten to cause official action to be taken or withheld.
   (B)   Subsections (A)(4) and (5) hereof shall not be construed to prohibit a
prosecutor or court from doing any of the following in good faith and in the
interest of justice:
      (1)   Offering or agreeing to grant, or granting immunity from
prosecution pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2945.44;
      (2)   In return for a plea of guilty to one or more offenses charged or
to one or more other or lesser offenses, or in return for the testimony of the
accused in a case to which the accused is not a party, offering or agreeing to
dismiss, or dismissing one or more charges pending against an accused, or
offering or agreeing to impose, or imposing a certain sentence or modification
of sentence;
      (3)   Imposing community control sanction on certain conditions,
including without limitation requiring the offender to make restitution or
redress to the victim of the offense.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under subsection (A)(3), (4)
or (5) hereof that the actor's conduct was a reasonable response to the
circumstances that occasioned it, and that the actor’s purpose was limited to
any of the following:
      (1)   Compelling another to refrain from misconduct or to desist from
further misconduct;
      (2)   Preventing or redressing a wrong or injustice;
      (3)   Preventing another from taking action for which the actor
reasonably believed the other person to be disqualified;
      (4)   Compelling another to take action that the actor reasonably
believed the other person to be under a duty to take.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of coercion, a misdemeanor of
the second degree.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Threat" includes a direct threat and a threat by innuendo.
      (2)   “Community control sanction” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
2929.01. (ORC 2905.12)
§ 136.10 TELECOMMUNICATION HARASSMENT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a
telecommunication, or knowingly permit telecommunication to be made from a
telecommunications device under the person's control, to another, if the caller
does any of the following:
      (1)   Makes the telecommunication with purpose to harass, intimidate, or
abuse, any person at the premises to which the telecommunication is made,
whether or not actual communication takes place between the caller and a
recipient;
      (2)   Describes, suggests, requests, or proposes that the caller, the
recipient of the telecommunication, or any other person engage in sexual
activity, and the recipient or another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made has requested, in a previous telecommunication or in
the immediate telecommunication, that the caller not make a telecommunication
to the recipient or to the premises to which the telecommunication is made;
      (3)   During the telecommunication, violates Ohio R.C. 2903.21;
      (4)   Knowingly states to the recipient of the telecommunication that the
caller intends to cause damage to or destroy public or private property, and
the recipient, any member of the recipient's family, or any other person who
resides at the premises to which the telecommunication is made owns, leases,
resides, or works in, will at the time of the destruction or damaging be near
or in, has the responsibility of protecting, or insures the property that will
be destroyed or damaged;
      (5)   Knowingly makes the telecommunication to the recipient of the
telecommunication, to another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made, or to those premises, and the recipient or another
person at those premises previously has told the caller not to make a
telecommunication to those premises or to any person at those premises.
      (6)   Knowingly makes any comment, request, suggestion, or proposal to
the recipient of the telecommunication that is threatening, intimidating,
menacing, coercive, or obscene with the intent to abuse, threaten or harass the
recipient;
      (7)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly interrupts the
telecommunication service of any person;
      (8)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly transmits to any
person, regardless of whether the telecommunication is heard in its entirety,
any file, document or other communication that prevents that person from using
the person's telephone service or electronic communication device;
      (9)   Knowingly makes any false statement concerning the death, injury,
illness, disfigurement, reputation, indecent conduct, or criminal conduct of
the recipient of the telecommunication or family or household member of the
recipient with purpose to abuse, threaten, intimidate, or harass the recipient;
      (10)   Knowingly incites another person through a telecommunication or
other means to harass or participate in the harassment of a person;
      (11)   Knowingly alarms the recipient by making a telecommunication
without a lawful purpose at an hour or hours known to be inconvenient to the
recipient and in an offensive or repetitive manner.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall make or cause to be made a telecommunication, or
permit a telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under
the person's control, with purpose to abuse, threaten, or harass another
person.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly post a text or audio statement or an
image on an internet web site or web page for the purpose of abusing,
threatening, or harassing another person.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of telecommunication
harassment.
      (2)   A violation of subsections (A)(1), (2), (3), (5), (6), (7), (8),
(9), (10), or (11) or (B) hereof is a misdemeanor of the first degree on a
first offense. Each subsequent offense is a felony and shall be prosecuted
under appropriate State law.
      (3)   Whoever violates subsection (A)(4) hereof is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree for a first offense. For each subsequent
offense or if a violation of subsection (A)(4) hereof results in economic harm
of one thousand dollars ($1,000) or more, a violation of subsection (A)(4)
hereof is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
   (D)   No cause of action may be asserted in any court of this State against
any provider of a telecommunications service, interactive computer service as
defined in Section 230 of Title 47 of the United States Code, or information
service, or against any officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunication
service, interactive computer service as defined in Section 230 of Title 47 of
the United States Code, or information service, for any injury, death, or loss
to person or property that allegedly arises out of the provider's, officer's,
employee's, or agent's provision of information, facilities, or assistance in
accordance with the terms of a court order that is issued in relation to the
investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation of this section. A
provider of a telecommunications service, interactive computer service as
defined in Section 230 of Title 47 of the United States Code, or information
service, or an officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service,
interactive computer service as defined in Section 230 of Title 47 of the
United States Code, of information service, is immune from any civil or
criminal liability for injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly arises out of the provider's, officer's, employee's, or agent's
provision of information, facilities, or assistance in accordance with the
terms of a court order that is issued in relation to the investigation or
prosecution of an alleged violation of this section.
   (E)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person solely because the
person provided access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person's control, including
having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access or
connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection. In addition, any
person providing access or connection to or from an electric method of remotely
transferring information not under that person's control shall not be liable
for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the receipt or
transmission through its service of any information that the person believes
is, or will be sent, in violation of this section.
      (2)   Subsection (E)(1) of this section does not create an affirmative
duty for any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic
method of remotely transferring information not under that person's control to
block the receipt or transmission through its service of any information that
it believes is, or will be sent, in violation of this section except as
otherwise provided by law.
      (3)   Subsection (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of this section or who knowingly
advertises the availability of material of that nature.
      (4)   A provider or user of an interactive computer service, as defined
in Section 230 of Title 47 of the United States Code, shall neither be treated
as the publisher or speaker of any information provided by another information
content provider, as defined in Section 230 of Title 47 of the United States
Code, nor held civilly or criminally liable for the creation or development of
information provided by another information content provider, as defined in
Section 230 of Title 47 of the United States Code. Nothing in this subsection
shall be construed to protect a person from liability to the extent that the
person developed or created any content in violation of this section.
   (F)   Subsections (A)(5) to (11) and (B)(2) of this section do not apply to
a person who, while employed or contracted by a newspaper, magazine, press
association, news agency, news wire service, cable channel or cable operator,
or radio or television station, is gathering, processing, transmitting,
compiling, editing or disseminating information for the general public, within
the scope of the person's employment in that capacity or the person's
contractual authority in that capacity.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Economic harm" means all direct, incidental, and consequential
pecuniary harm suffered by a victim as a result of criminal conduct. "Economic
harm" includes, but is not limited to, all of the following:
         (a)   All wages, salaries, or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (b)   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (c)   The overhead costs incurred for the time that a business is shut
down as a result of the criminal conduct;
         (d)   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
      (2)   "Caller" means the person described in subsection (a) hereof who
makes or causes to be made a telecommunication or who permits a
telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under that
person's control.
      (3)   "Telecommunication" and "telecommunications device" have the same
meanings as in Ohio R.C. 2913.01.
      (4)   "Sexual activity" has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2907.01.
      (5)   "Family or household member" means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in
subsection (A)(9) of this section is committed:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse of
the recipient;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the recipient, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the recipient;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the recipient, or anther person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
recipient.
         B.   The natural parent of any child of whom the recipient of the
telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in subsection (A)(9) of this
section is committed is the other natural parent or is the putative other
natural parent.
      (6)   "Person living as a spouse" means a person who is living or has
lived with the recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act
prohibited in subsection (A)(9) of this section is committed in a common law
marital relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting with the recipient, or who
otherwise has cohabited with the recipient within five years prior to the date
of the alleged commission of the act in question.
      (7)   "Cable operator" has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 1332.21.
   (H)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person from making a
telecommunication call to a debtor that is in compliance with the "Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act", 91 Stat. 874 (1977), 15 U.S.C. 1692, as amended, or
the "Telephone Consumer Protection Act", 105 Stat. 2395 (1991), 47 U.S.C. 227,
as amended. (ORC 2917.21)
§ 136.11 MISUSE OF 9-1-1 SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, 9-1-1 SYSTEM means a system through which
individuals can request emergency service using the access number 9-1-1.
(R.C. § 128.01(A))
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use the telephone number of the 9-1-1 system
established under Ohio R.C. Chapter 128 to report an emergency if he knows that
no emergency exists.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly use a 9-1-1 system for a purpose other than
obtaining emergency service.
   (D)   No person shall disclose or use any information concerning telephone
numbers, addresses, or names obtained from the data base that serves the public
safety answering point of a 9-1-1 system established under Ohio R.C. Chapter
128, except for any of the following purposes or under any of the following
circumstances:
      (1)   For the purpose of the 9-1-1 system;
      (2)   For the purpose of responding to an emergency call to an emergency
service provider;
      (3)   In the circumstance of the inadvertent disclosure of such
information due solely to technology of the wireline telephone network portion
of the 9-1-1 system not allowing access to the data base to be restricted to 9-
1-1 specific answering lines at a public safety answering point;
      (4)   In the circumstance of access to a data base being given by a
telephone company that is a wireline service provider to a public utility or
municipal utility in handling customer calls in times of public emergency or
service outages. The charge, terms, and conditions for the disclosure or use of
such information for the purpose of such access to a data base shall be subject
to the jurisdiction of the Department of Public Safety.
      (5)   In the circumstance of access to a data base given by a telephone
company that is a wireline service provider to a state and local government in
warning of a public emergency, as determined by the Department of Public
Safety. The charge, terms, and conditions for the disclosure or use of that
information for the purpose of access to a data base is subject to the
jurisdiction of the Department of Public Safety.
(R.C. § 128.96(F) - (H))
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates subsection (B) hereof is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates subsection (C) or (D) hereof is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense. For each subsequent
offense such person is guilty of a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate State law.
(ORC 128.99)
§ 136.12 DRUG ABUSE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly obtain, possess, or use a controlled
substance or a controlled substance analog.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
and 4741.
         (b)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a
research project involving the use of an anabolic steroid if the project has
been approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration.
         (c)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses, or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act, and is sold, offered for sale, prescribed, dispensed, or
administered for that purpose in accordance with that Act.
         (d)   Any person who obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs if the prescription was issued for a legitimate medical purpose and not
altered, forged, or obtained through deception or commission of a theft
offense. As used in this division (B)(1)(d), “deception” and “theft offense”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (2)   (a)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section:
            COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 5119.01.
            COMMUNITY CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meanings as in R.C. §
2929.01
            HEALTH CARE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2919.16.
            MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. A violation of this section or R.C.
§ 2925.11 that is a misdemeanor or a felony of the fifth degree.
            PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
            POST-RELEASE CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2967.28.
            PUBLIC AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2930.01.
            QUALIFIED INDIVIDUAL. A person who is acting in good faith who
seeks or obtains medical assistance for another person who is experiencing a
drug overdose, a person who experiences a drug overdose and who seeks medical
assistance for that overdose, or a person who is the subject of another person
seeking or obtaining medical assistance for that overdose as described in
division (B)(2)(b) of this section.
            SEEK OR OBTAIN MEDICAL ASSISTANCE. Includes, but is not limited to
making a 9-1-1 call, contacting in person or by telephone call an on- duty
peace officer, or transporting or presenting a person to a health care
facility.
         (b)   Subject to division (B)(2)(e) of this section, a qualified
individual shall not be arrested, charged, prosecuted, convicted, or penalized
pursuant to this chapter for a minor drug possession offense or a violation of
R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. § 2925.141 if all of the
following apply:
            1.   The evidence of the obtaining, possession, or use of the
controlled substance or controlled substance analog, drug abuse instruments, or
drug paraphernalia that would be the basis of the offense was obtained as a
result of the qualified individual seeking the medical assistance or
experiencing an overdose and needing medical assistance.
            2.   Subject to division (B)(2)(f) of this section, within 30 days
after seeking or obtaining the medical assistance, the qualified individual
seeks and obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment from a
community addiction services provider or a properly credentialed addiction
treatment professional.
            3.   Subject to division (B)(2)(f) of this section, the qualified
individual who obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment under
division (B)(2)(b)2. of this section, upon the request of any prosecuting
attorney, submits documentation to the prosecuting attorney that verifies that
the qualified individual satisfied the requirements of that division. The
documentation shall be limited to the date and time of the screening obtained
and referral received.
         (c)   If a person who is serving a community control sanction or is
under a sanction on post-release control acts pursuant to division (B)(2)(b) of
this section, then R.C. § 2929.141(B), R.C. § 2929.15(B)(2), R.C. § 2929.25(D)
(3), or R.C. § 2967.28(F)(3) applies to the person with respect to any
violation of the sanction or post-release control sanction based on a minor
drug possession offense, as defined in R.C. § 2925.11, or a violation of R.C. §
2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. § 2925.141.
         (d)   Nothing in division (B)(2)(b) of this section shall be construed
to do any of the following:
            1.   Limit the admissibility of any evidence in connection with the
investigation or prosecution of a crime with regards to a defendant who does
not qualify for the protections of division (B)(2)(b) of this section or with
regards to any crime other than a minor drug possession offense or a violation
of R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. § 2925.141 committed by a
person who qualifies for protection pursuant to division (B)(2)(b) of this
section;
            2.   Limit any seizure of evidence or contraband otherwise
permitted by law;
            3.   Limit or abridge the authority of a peace officer to detain or
take into custody a person in the course of an investigation or to effectuate
an arrest for any offense except as provided in that division;
            4.   Limit, modify, or remove any immunity from liability available
pursuant to law in effect prior to September 13, 2016 to any public agency or
to an employee of any public agency.
         (e)   Division (B)(2)(b) of this section does not apply to any person
who twice previously has been granted an immunity under division (B)(2)(b) of
this section. No person shall be granted an immunity under division (B)(2)(b)
of this section more than two times.
         (f)   Nothing in this section shall compel any qualified individual to
disclose protected health information in a way that conflicts with the
requirements of the “Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of
1996”, 104 Pub. L. No. 191, 110 Stat. 2021, 42 U.S.C. §§ 1320d et seq., as
amended, and regulations promulgated by the United States Department of Health
and Human Services to implement the act or the requirements of 42 C.F.R. Part
2.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of one of the
following:
      (1)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana or hashish, whoever violates division (A) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of drugs.
The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2)(b) of this
section, possession of drugs is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the
offender previously has been convicted of a drug abuse offense, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds the bulk
amount, possession of drugs is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is marihuana or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing marihuana other than hashish,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of
marihuana. The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
of this section, possession of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 100 grams
but is less than 200 grams, possession of marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
possession of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (4)   If the drug involved in the violation is hashish or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing hashish, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of hashish. The penalty
for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(4)(b) or (C)(4)(c)
of this section, possession of hashish is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds five grams
but is less than ten grams of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds one
gram but is less than two grams of hashish in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of hashish is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds ten grams
of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds two grams of hashish in a
liquid concentrate, liquid extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of
hashish is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl- related compound
and marihuana, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(5)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of marihuana and shall be
punished as provided in division (C)(3) of this section. Except as otherwise
provided in division (C)(5)(b) of this section, the offender is not guilty of
possession of a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall
not be charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl- related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl- related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
      (6)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl- related compound
and any Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is
not a fentanyl-related compound, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(6)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of drugs and shall be punished as
provided in division (C)(2) of this section. Except as otherwise provided in
division (C)(6)(b) of this section, the offender is not guilty of possession of
a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall not be
charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl- related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
   (D)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
   (E)   (1)   In addition to any prison term or jail term authorized or
required by division (C) of this section and R.C. §§ 2929.13, 2929.14, 2929.22,
2929.24, and 2929.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
in addition to any other sanction that is imposed for the offense under this
section, R.C. §§ 2929.11 through 2929.18, or R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court that sentences
an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (A)
of this section may suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit for not more than five years. However, if the offender
pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another state or the
United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the violation,
the court shall suspend
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit for not more
than five years.
      (2)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
   (F)   (1)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
      (2)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (F) of this section, the
sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.11)
§ 136.13 ABUSING HARMFUL INTOXICANTS.
   (A)   Except for lawful research, clinical, medical, dental, or veterinary
purposes, no person, with purpose to induce intoxication or similar
physiological effects, shall obtain, possess, or use a harmful intoxicant.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of abusing harmful
intoxicants, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, abusing harmful intoxicants is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to the September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (C)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.31)
§ 136.14 COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly possess any counterfeit controlled
substance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possession of counterfeit
controlled substances, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (C)   The court may suspend for not more than five years the offender's
driver's or commercial driver's license or permit. However, if the offender
pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of Ohio R.C. 4511.19 or a
substantially similar municipal ordinance or the law of another state or the
United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the violation,
the court shall suspend the offender's driver's or commercial driver's license
or permit for not more than five years.
(ORC 2925.37)
§ 136.15 HAZING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      HAZING. Means doing any act or coercing another, including the victim, to
do any act of initiation into any student or other organization or any act to
continue or reinstate membership in or affiliation with any student or other
organization that causes or creates a substantial risk of causing mental or
physical harm to any person, including coercing another to consume alcohol or a
drug of abuse, as defined in R.C. § 3719.011.
      ORGANIZATION. Includes a national or international organization with
which a fraternity or sorority is affiliated.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post- secondary school or any other educational institution, public or private,
shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person associated with the
organization.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another
when the hazing includes coerced consumption of alcohol or drugs of abuse
resulting in serious physical harm to the other person.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post- secondary school or any other educational institution, public or private,
shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person associated with the
organization when the hazing includes coerced consumption of alcohol or drugs
of abuse resulting in serious physical harm to that person.
   (D)   Whoever violates divisions (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of
hazing. A violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the second degree. A violation of division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.31)
   (E)   Reckless failure to immediately report knowledge of hazing.
      (1)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post- secondary school or any other public or private educational institution,
who is acting in an official and professional capacity shall recklessly fail to
immediately report the knowledge of hazing to a law enforcement agency in the
county in which the victim of hazing resides or in which the hazing is
occurring or has occurred.
      (2)   A violation of division (E)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree, except that the violation is a misdemeanor of the first
degree if the hazing causes serious physical harm.
(R.C. § 2903.311(B), (C))
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability for hazing, see R.C. § 2307.44
§ 136.16 FALSE REPORT OF CHILD ABUSE OR NEGLECT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause another person to make a false
report under R.C. § 2151.421(B) alleging that any person has committed an act
or omission that resulted in a child being an abused child as defined in R.C. §
2151.031 or a neglected child as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or causing a false
report of child abuse or child neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.14) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 136.17 ILLEGAL DISTRIBUTION OF CIGARETTES, OTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS OR
ALTERNATE NICOTINE PRODUCTS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AGE VERIFICATION. A service provided by an independent third party (other
than a manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes) that compares information available from a
commercially available database, or aggregate of databases, that regularly are
used by government and businesses for the purpose of age and identity
verification to personal information provided during an internet sale or other
remote method of sale to establish that the purchaser is 21 years of age or
older.
      ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT.
         (a)   Subject to division 2. of this definition, an electronic smoking
device, vapor product, or any other product or device that consists of or
contains nicotine that can be ingested into the body by any means, including,
but not limited to, chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, or inhaling.
         (b)   The phrase does not include any of the following:
            1.   Any cigarette or other tobacco product;
            2.   Any product that is a “drug” as that term is defined in 21
U.S.C. § 321(g)(1);
            3.   Any product that is a “device” as that term is defined in 21
U.S.C. § 321(h);
            4.   Any product that is a “combination product” as described in 21
U.S.C. § 353(g).
      CIGARETTE. Includes clove cigarettes and hand- rolled cigarettes.
      DISTRIBUTE. Means to furnish, give, or provide cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to
the ultimate consumer of the cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes.
      ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE. Means any device that can be used to deliver
aerosolized or vaporized nicotine or any other substance to the person inhaling
from the device including an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic
hookah, vaping pen, or electronic pipe. The phrase includes any component,
part, or accessory of such a device, whether or not sold separately, and
includes any substance intended to be aerosolized or vaporized during the use
of the device. The phrase does not include any product that is a drug, device,
or combination product, as those terms are defined or described in 21 U.S.C. §§
321 and 353(g).
      PROOF OF AGE. Means a driver’s license, a commercial driver’s license, a
military identification card, a passport, or an identification card issued
under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows that a person is 21 years of age or
older.
      TOBACCO PRODUCT. Means any product that is made or derived from tobacco
or that contains any form of nicotine, if it is intended for human consumption
or is likely to be consumed, whether smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed,
dissolved, inhaled, or ingested by any other means, including, but not limited
to, a cigarette, an electronic smoking device, a cigar, pipe tobacco, chewing
tobacco, snuff, or snus. The phrase also means any component or accessory used
in the consumption of a tobacco product, such as filters, rolling papers,
pipes, blunt or hemp wraps, and liquids used in electronic smoking devices,
whether or not they contain nicotine. The phrase does not include any product
that is a drug, device, or  combination product, as those terms are defined or
described in 21 U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g).
      VAPOR PRODUCT. Means a product, other than a cigarette or other tobacco
product as defined in R.C. Chapter 5743, that contains or is made or derived
from nicotine and that is intended and marketed for human consumption,
including by smoking, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing. The phrase includes any
component, part, or additive that is intended for use in an electronic smoking
device, a mechanical heating element, battery, or electronic circuit and is
used to deliver the product. The phrase does not include any product that is a
drug, device, or combination product, as those terms are defined or described
in 21 U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g). The phrase includes any product containing
nicotine, regardless of concentration.
      VENDING MACHINE. Has the same meaning as “coin machine” in R.C. §
2913.01.
   (B)   No manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes, no agent, employee, or representative of a
manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes, and no other person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes:
         (a)   To any person under 21 years of age; or
         (b)   Without first verifying proof of age.
      (2)   Give away, sell, or distribute cigarettes, other tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes in any place
that does not have posted in a conspicuous place a legibly printed sign in
letters at least one-half inch high stating that giving, selling, or otherwise
distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
or papers used to roll cigarettes to a person under 21 years of age is
prohibited by law;
      (3)   Knowingly furnish any false information regarding the name, age, or
other identification of any person under 21 years of age with purpose to obtain
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes for that person;
      (4)   Manufacture, sell, or distribute in this state any pack or other
container of cigarettes containing fewer than 20 cigarettes or any package of
roll-your-own tobacco containing less than six-tenths of one ounce of tobacco;
      (5)   Sell cigarettes or alternative nicotine products in a smaller
quantity than that placed in the pack or other container by the manufacturer;
      (6)   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute alternative nicotine products,
papers used to roll cigarettes, or tobacco products other than cigarettes over
the internet or through another remote method without age verification;
      (7)   Allow an employee under 18 years of age to sell any tobacco
product;
      (8)   Give away or otherwise distribute free samples of cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or coupons redeemable for
cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alterative tobacco products.
   (C)   No person shall sell or offer to sell cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products by or from a vending machine, except
in the following locations:
      (1)   An area within a factory, business, office, or other place not open
to the general public;
      (2)   An area to which persons under 21 years of age are not generally
permitted access;
      (3)   Any other place not identified in division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this
section, upon all of the following conditions:
         a.   The vending machine is located within the immediate vicinity,
plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place, or an
employee of that person, so that all cigarettes, other tobacco product, and
alternative nicotine product purchases from the vending machine will be readily
observed by the person who owns or operates the place or an employee of that
person. For the purpose of this section, a vending machine located in any
unmonitored area, including an unmonitored coatroom, restroom, hallway, or
outer waiting area, shall not be considered located within the immediate
vicinity, plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place,
or an employee of that person.
         b.   The vending machine is inaccessible to the public when the place
is closed.
         c.   A clearly visible notice is posted in the area where the vending
machine is located that states the following in letters that are legibly
printed and at least one-half inch high: “It is illegal for any person under
the age of 21 to purchase tobacco or alternative nicotine products.”
   (D)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under division (B)
(1) of this section:
      (1)   The person under 21 years of age was accompanied by a parent,
spouse who is 21 years of age or older, or legal guardian of the person under
21 years of age.
      (2)   The person who gave, sold, or distributed cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to a
person under 21 years of age under division (B)(1) of this section is a parent,
spouse who is 21 years of age or older, or legal guardian of the person under
21 years of age.
   (E)   (1)   It is not a violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this
section for a person to give or otherwise distribute to a person under 21 years
of age cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or
papers used to roll cigarettes while the person under 21 years of age is
participating in a research protocol if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The parent, guardian, or legal custodian of the person under 21
years of age has consented in writing to the person under 21 years of age
participating in the research protocol.
         (b)   An institutional human subjects protection review board, or an
equivalent entity, has approved the research protocol.
         (c)   The person under 21 years of age is participating in the
research protocol at the facility or location specified in the research
protocol.
      (2)   It is not a violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section
for an employer to permit an employee 18, 19, or 20 years of age to sell a
tobacco product.
   (F)   (1)   No delivery service shall accept from, transport or deliver to,
or allow pick-up by, a person under 21 years of age with respect to any of the
following:
         (a)   Alternative nicotine products;
         (b)   Papers used to roll cigarettes;
         (c)   Tobacco products other than cigarettes.
      (2)   A delivery service shall require proof of age as a condition of
accepting, transporting, delivering, or allowing pickup of the items described
in divisions (F)(1)(a) to (c) of this section.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(4), (B)(5), (B)(6), (B)
(7), (B)(8), (C) or (F) of this section is guilty of illegal distribution of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, illegal distribution of cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of
permitting a person under 21 years of age to use cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, permitting a person under 21 years of age to use cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of division (B)(3) of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, permitting a person under 21 years of age to use
cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (I)   Any cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
or papers used to roll cigarettes that are given, sold, or otherwise
distributed to a person under 21 years of age in violation of this section and
that are used, possessed, purchased, or received by a person under 21 years of
age in violation of R.C. § 2151.87 are subject to seizure and forfeiture as
contraband under R.C. Chapter 2981.
(R.C. § 2927.02)
§ 136.18 RESERVED
Editor’s note: This section was formerly based on R.C. § 2905.05, Criminal
Child Enticement. The Ohio Supreme Court held that R.C. § 2905.05(A) was
unconstitutionally overbroad in violation of the First Amendment. See State v.
Romage, 138 Ohio St. 3d. 390 (2014).
§ 136.19 CONTRIBUTING TO UNRULINESS OR DELINQUENCY OF A CHILD.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Delinquent child" has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2152.02.
      (2)   "Unruly child" has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2151.022.
   (B)   No person, including a parent, guardian or other custodian of a child,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to a child or a
ward of the juvenile court becoming an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (2)   Act in a way tending to cause a child or a ward of the juvenile
court to become an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (3)   Act in a way that contributes to an adjudication of the child as a
delinquent child based on the child's violation of a court order adjudicating
the child an unruly child for being an habitual truant;
      (4)   If the person is the parent, guardian, or custodian of a child who
has the duties under Ohio R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950 to register, register a
new residence address, and periodically verify a residence address and, if
applicable, to send a notice of intent to reside, and if the child is not
emancipated, as defined in Ohio R.C. 2919.121, fail to ensure that the child
complies with those duties under Ohio R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of contributing to the
unruliness or delinquency of a child, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each
day of violation of this section is a separate offense.
(ORC 2919.24)
§ 136.20 ADULT USE CANNABIS CONTROL; LIMITATIONS ON CONDUCT BY INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780 and notwithstanding
any conflicting provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, an adult use
consumer, may do the following:
      (1)   Use adult use cannabis;
      (2)   Possess, transfer without remuneration to another adult consumer,
or transport adult use cannabis, subject to division (B) of this section; and
      (3)   Purchase adult use cannabis from an adult use dispensary per day in
amounts that do not exceed the possession limits set forth in division (B)(1)
of this section.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3796:
      (1)   The amount of cannabis that may be possessed by an adult use
consumer shall not exceed:
         (a)   Two and one-half ounces of adult use cannabis in any form except
adult use extract; and
         (b)   Fifteen grams of adult use cannabis in the form of adult use
extract.
      (2)   The amount of cannabis that may be transferred by an adult use
consumer without remuneration and not advertised or promoted to the public
shall not exceed:
         (a)   Two and one-half ounces of adult use cannabis in any form except
adult use extract; and
         (b)   Fifteen grams of adult use cannabis in the form of adult use
extract.
      (3)   The amount of cannabis that may be transported by an adult use
consumer shall not exceed:
         (a)   Two and one-half ounces of adult use cannabis in any form except
adult use extract; and
         (b)   Fifteen grams of adult use cannabis in the form of adult use
extract.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780, an adult use
consumer shall not be subject to arrest, criminal prosecution, or civil penalty
for engaging in any of the activities authorized under R.C. Chapter 3780,
including:
      (1)   Obtaining, using, possessing, or transporting adult use cannabis;
      (2)   Performing conduct authorized under R.C. § 3780.29;
      (3)   Acquiring, possessing, using, purchasing, manufacturing, selling,
or transporting paraphernalia; and
      (4)   Assisting another adult use consumer, or allowing property to be
used, in any of the acts authorized by R.C. Chapter 3780.
   (D)   (1)   An individual is prohibited from operating a vehicle, motor
vehicle, streetcar, trackless trolley, bike, watercraft, or aircraft while
using adult use cannabis or while under the influence of adult use cannabis and
is subject to R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance
for any violation of this division.
      (2)   An individual is prohibited from smoking, vaporizing, or using any
other combustible adult use cannabis product while in a vehicle, motor vehicle,
streetcar, trackless trolley, bike, watercraft, or aircraft and is subject to
R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for any
violation of this division.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780, no individual under
21 years of age shall knowingly show or give false information concerning the
individual’s name, age, or other identification for the purpose of purchasing
adult use cannabis from an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C. Chapter
3780.
   (F)   Nothing in R.C. Chapter 3780 is intended to permit the transfer or
sale of adult use cannabis, with or without remuneration, to an individual
under 21 years of age, or to allow an individual under 21 years of age to
purchase, possess, use, process, transport, or cultivate cannabis except where
authorized by R.C. Chapter 3796.
   (G)   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian to knowingly permit their
residence, any other private property under their control, or any vehicle,
conveyance, or watercraft under their control to be used by an invitee of the
parent’s child or the guardian’s ward, if the invitee is under 21 years of age,
in a manner that constitutes a violation of R.C. Chapter 3780.
      (1)   A parent or guardian is deemed to have knowingly permitted their
residence, any other private property under their control, or any vehicle,
conveyance, or watercraft under their control to be used in violation of R.C.
Chapter 3780 if they knowingly authorize or permit consumption of cannabis by
underage invitees.
      (2)   Where the residence or other property has an owner and a tenant or
lessee, the trier of fact may infer that the residence or other property is
occupied only by the tenant or lessee.
(R.C. § 3780.36)
   (H)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3796, R.C. § 2925.11
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall apply when an adult use
consumer possesses an amount of cannabis greater than the limits set forth in
division (B)(1) of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780, an adult use
consumer who uses adult use cannabis in public areas, or who violates division
(D)(2) of this section as a passenger, is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   (a)   An individual under 21 years of age who knowingly shows or
gives false information concerning the individual’s name, age, or other
identification for the purpose of purchasing or otherwise obtaining adult use
cannabis from an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C. Chapter 3780 is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If, in committing a first
violation, the offender presented to an adult use dispensary licensed under
R.C. Chapter 3780 a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $250 and not
more than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more
than six months.
         (b)   On a second violation in which, for the second time, the
offender presented to an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C. Chapter 3780
a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false or fictitious
driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s license issued
by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000,
and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than six months. The
court also may impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege from
the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7). The court, in lieu of suspending
the offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or
driver’s license, instead may order the offender to perform a determinate
number of hours of community service, with the court determining the actual
number of hours and the nature of the community service the offender shall
perform.
         (c)   On a third or subsequent violation in which, for the third or
subsequent time, the offender presented to an adult use dispensary licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3780 a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a
false or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a
driver’s license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than
$500 nor more than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of
not more than six months. Except as provided in this division, the court also
may impose a class six suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6), and the court may order that the suspension
or denial remain in effect until the offender attains the age of 21 years. The
court, in lieu of suspending the offender’s temporary instruction permit,
probationary driver’s license, or driver’s license, instead may order the
offender to perform a determinate number of hours of community service, with
the court determining the actual number of hours and the nature of the
community service the offender shall perform.
      (4)   An individual who is under 21 years of age and who solicits another
individual to purchase adult use cannabis from an adult use dispensary licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3780 is guilty of:
         (a)   For a first violation, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; and
         (b)   For a second or subsequent violation, a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
      (5)   An employee or agent of an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C.
Chapter 3780 who knowingly sells cannabis to an individual under 21 years of
age is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   Any individual who violates R.C. § 3780.10(A), or R.C. § 3780.29
(F), is guilty of the illegal trafficking in drugs under R.C. § 2925.03 and the
illegal manufacture of drugs under R.C. § 2925.04.
      (7)   Any individual who violates division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this
section guilty of the illegal trafficking in drugs under R.C. § 2925.03.
      (8)   Any individual who violates R.C. § 3780.20(B) is guilty of illegal
dispensing of drug samples under R.C. § 2925.36 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
      (9)   (a)   An individual who violates division (G) of this section is
guilty of:
            1.   For a first violation, a misdemeanor of the third degree; and
            2.   For a second or subsequent violation, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
         (b)   If a violation of division (G) of this section directly or
indirectly results in great bodily harm or death to any individual, the
individual violating division (G) is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 3780.99)
CHAPTER 137: PUBLIC MORALITY
Section
137.01   Definitions
137.02   Unlawful sexual conduct with a minor
137.03   Sexual imposition
137.04   Importuning
137.05   Voyeurism
137.06   Public indecency
137.07   Procuring; engagement in sexual activity for hire
137.08   Soliciting
137.09   Prostitution
137.10   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles
137.11   Pandering obscenity
137.12   Deception to obtain matter harmful to juveniles
137.13   Presumption of knowledge
137.14   Displaying matter harmful to juveniles
137.15   Unlawful advertising of massage
137.16   Nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images
§ 137.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   HARMFUL TO JUVENILES. That quality of any material or performance describing
or representing nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement, or sado-masochistic
abuse in any form to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, appeals to
the prurient interest of juveniles in sex.
      (2)   The material or performance is patently offensive to prevailing
standards in the adult community as a whole with respect to what is suitable
for juveniles.
      (3)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, lacks
serious literary, artistic, political, and scientific value for juveniles.
   JUVENILE. Any unmarried person under 18 years of age.
   MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, poster, print, picture,
figure, image, description, motion picture film, video cassette, laser disc,
phonograph record, cassette tape, compact disc, or other tangible thing capable
of arousing interest through sight, sound, or touch and includes an image or
text appearing on a computer monitor, television screen, liquid crystal
display, or similar display device or an image or text recorded on a computer
hard disk, computer floppy disk, compact disk, magnetic tape, or similar data
storage device.
   MENTAL HEALTH CLIENT OR PATIENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.51.
   MENTAL HEALTH PROFESSIONAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.115.
   MINOR. A person under the age of 18.
   NUDITY. The showing, representation, or depiction of human male or female
genitals, pubic area, or buttocks with less than a full, opaque covering, or of
a female breast with less than a full, opaque covering of any portion thereof
below the top of the nipple, or of covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
   OBSCENE. When considered as a whole, and judged with reference to ordinary
adults or, if it is designed for sexual deviates or other specially susceptible
group, judged with reference to that group, any material or performance is
“obscene” if any of the following apply:
      (1)   Its dominant appeal is to prurient interest.
      (2)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
sexual activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, or nudity in a way that tends
to represent human beings as mere objects of sexual appetite.
      (3)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
bestiality or extreme or bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality.
      (4)   Its dominant tendency is to appeal to scatological interest by
displaying or depicting human bodily functions of elimination in a way that
inspires disgust or revulsion in persons with ordinary sensibilities, without
serving any genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or artistic
purpose.
      (5)   It contains a series of displays or descriptions of sexual
activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, nudity, bestiality, extreme or
bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality, or human bodily functions of
elimination, the cumulative effect of which is a dominant tendency to appeal to
prurient or scatological interest, when the appeal to such an interest is
primarily for its own sake or for commercial exploitation, rather than
primarily for a genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or
artistic purpose.
   PERFORMANCE. Any motion picture, preview, trailer, play, show, skit, dance,
or other exhibition performed before an audience.
   PLACE WHERE A PERSON HAS A REASONABLE EXPECTATION OF PRIVACY. A place where
a reasonable person would believe that the person could fully disrobe in
private.
   PRIVATE AREA. The genitals, pubic area, buttocks, or female breast below the
top of the areola, where nude or covered by an undergarment.
   PROSTITUTE. A male or female who promiscuously engages in sexual activity
for hire, regardless of whether the hire is paid to the prostitute or to
another.
   SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person or the
condition of being fettered, bound, or otherwise physically restrained.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Sexual conduct or sexual contact, or both.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Vaginal intercourse between a male and female; anal
intercourse, fellatio, and cunnilingus between persons regardless of sex; and,
without privilege to do so, the insertion, however slight, of any part of the
body or any instrument, apparatus, or other object into the vaginal or anal
opening of another. Penetration, however slight, is sufficient to complete
vaginal or anal intercourse.
   SEXUAL CONTACT. Any touching of an erogenous zone of another, including
without limitation the thigh, genitals, buttock, pubic region, or, if the
person is a female, a breast, for the purpose of sexually arousing or
gratifying either person.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals when in a
state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   SPOUSE. A person married to an offender at the time of an alleged offense,
except that such person shall not be considered the spouse when any of the
following apply:
      (1)   When the parties have entered into a written separation agreement
pursuant to R.C. § 3103.06.
      (2)   When an action is pending between the parties for annulment,
divorce, dissolution of marriage, or legal separation.
      (3)   In the case of an action for legal separation, after the effective
date of the judgment for legal separation.
(R.C. § 2907.01)
§ 137.02 UNLAWFUL SEXUAL CONDUCT WITH A MINOR.
   (A)   No person, who is eighteen years of age or older, shall engage in
sexual conduct with another, who is not the spouse of the offender, when the
offender knows the other person is thirteen years of age or older but less than
sixteen years of age, or the offender is reckless in that regard.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful sexual conduct
with a minor, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender is four years
older or more than the other person, or if the offender has previously been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of Ohio R.C. 2907.02, 2907.03 or
2907.04, or former Ohio R.C. 2907.12, unlawful sexual conduct with a minor is a
felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
(ORC 2907.04)
§ 137.03 SEXUAL IMPOSITION.
   (A)   No person shall have sexual contact with another, not the spouse of
the offender; cause another, not the spouse of the offender, to have sexual
contact with the offender; or cause two or more other persons to have sexual
contact when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The offender knows that the sexual contact is offensive to the
other person, or one of the other persons, or is reckless in that regard.
      (2)   The offender knows that the other person's, or one of the other
person's, ability to appraise the nature of or control the offender's or
touching person's conduct is substantially impaired.
      (3)   The offender knows that the other person or one of the other
persons, submits because of being unaware of the sexual contact.
      (4)   The other person, or one of the other persons, is 13 years of age
or older but less than 16 years of age, whether or not the offender knows the
age of such person, and the offender is at least 18 years of age and 4 or more
years older than the other person.
      (5)   The offender is a mental health professional, the other person or
one of the other persons is a mental health client or patient of the offender,
and the offender induces the other person who is the client or patient to
submit by falsely representing to the other person who is the client or patient
that the sexual contact is necessary for mental health treatment purposes.
   (B)   No person shall be convicted of a violation of this section solely
upon the victim's testimony unsupported by other evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of sexual imposition, a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2907.02,
2907.03, 2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any combination of those
sections, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree and,
notwithstanding the range of jail terms prescribed in R.C. § 2929.24, the court
may impose on the offender a definite jail term of not more than one year.
(R.C. § 2907.06) (Ord. 1839, passed 4-23-74) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 137.04 IMPORTUNING.
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Former Section
 137.04 has been deleted from the Codified Ordinances. Section
137.04 was identical to Ohio R.C. 2907.07(B) which the Ohio Supreme Court held
to be unconstitutional in State v. Thompson, 95 Ohio St. 3rd 264 (2002).)
§ 137.05 VOYEURISM.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another, to spy or eavesdrop upon another.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly commit trespass or otherwise secretly or
surreptitiously videotape, film, photograph, broadcast, stream, or otherwise
record another person, in a place where a person has a reasonable expectation
of privacy, for the purpose of viewing the private areas of that person.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly commit trespass or otherwise secretly or
surreptitiously videotape, film, photograph, broadcast, stream, or otherwise
record a minor, in a place where a person has a reasonable expectation of
privacy, for the purpose of viewing the private areas of the minor.
   (D)   No person shall secretly or surreptitiously videotape, film,
photograph, or otherwise record another person above, under, or through the
clothing being worn by that other person for the purpose of viewing the body
of, or the undergarments worn by, that other person.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of voyeurism.
      (1)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (4)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.08)
§ 137.06 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following, under
circumstances in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and
affront others, who are in the person’s physical proximity and who are not
members of the person’s household:
      (1)   Expose the person’s private parts;
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct or masturbation;
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following, under circumstances
in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and affront another
person who is in the person’s physical proximity, who is a minor, and who is
not the spouse of the offender:
      (1)   Engage in masturbation;
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct;
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation;
      (4)   Expose the person’s private parts with the purpose of personal
sexual arousal or gratification or to lure the minor into sexual activity.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public indecency and
shall be punished as provided in subsections (C)(2), (3), (4) and (5) of this
section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (C)(2) of this section,
a violation of subsection (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
one violation of this section, a violation of subsection (A)(1) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the third degree or, if any person who was likely to view
and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the
second degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two violations of this section, a violation of subsection (A)(1) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the second degree or, if any person who was
likely to view and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, a violation
of subsection (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or,
if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by the offender’s conduct
was a minor, a felony which shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (C)(3) of this section,
a violation of subsection (A)(2) or (3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section, a violation of subsection (A)(2) or
(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second degree or, if any person who
was likely to view and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section, a violation of
subsection (A)(2) or (3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree
or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by the offender’s
conduct was a minor, a felony which shall be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (C)(4) of this section,
a violation of subsection (B)(1), (2) or (3) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the second degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one violation of this section, a violation of subsection (B)
(1), (2) or (3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more
violations of this section, a violation of subsection (B)(1), (2) or (3) of
this section is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   A violation of subsection (B)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree unless the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to any violation of this section in which case the violation is
a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   If either of the following applies, the court may determine at
the time of sentencing whether to classify the offender as a tier I sex
offender/child-victim offender for a violation of division (B)(4) of this
section:
         (a)   The offender is less than ten years older than the other person.
         (b)   The offender is ten or more years older than the other person
and the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any
violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance.
      (2)   If the offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (B)(4) of this section, is ten or more years older than the other
person, and previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the court shall issue an order at the time of sentencing that
classifies the offender as a tier I sex offender/child-victim offender subject
to registration under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and 2950.06.
(R.C. § 2907.09)
§ 137.07 PROCURING; ENGAGEMENT IN SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE.
   (A)   Procuring.
      (1)   No person, knowingly and for gain, shall do either of the
following:
         (a)   Entice or solicit another to patronize a prostitute or brothel;
         (b)   Procure a prostitute for another to patronize, or take or direct
another at the other’s request to any place for the purpose of patronizing a
prostitute.
      (2)   No person, having authority or responsibility over the use of
premises, shall knowingly permit the premises to be used for the purpose of
engaging in sexual activity for hire.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(1)(b) of this section is
guilty of procuring. Except as otherwise provided in this division, procuring
is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the prostitute who is procured,
patronized, or otherwise involved in a violation of division (A)(1)(b) of this
section is under 18 years of age at the time of the violation, regardless of
whether the offender who violates division (A)(1)(b) of this section knows the
prostitute’s age, or if a prostitute who engages in sexual activity for hire in
premises used in violation of division (A)(2) of this section is under 18 years
of age at the time of the violation, regardless of whether the offender who
violates division (A)(2) of this section knows the prostitute’s age, procuring
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.23)
   (B)   Engagement in sexual activity for hire.
      (1)   As used in this division (B):
         PERSON WITH A DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITY. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2905.32.
         SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE. An implicit or explicit agreement to provide
sexual activity in exchange for anything of value paid to the person engaging
in such sexual activity, to any person trafficking that person, or to any
person associated with either such person.
      (2)   No person shall recklessly induce, entice, or procure another to
engage in sexual activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything
of value to the other person.
      (3)   No person shall recklessly induce, entice, or procure another to
engage in sexual activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything
of value to the other person if the other person is a person with a
developmental disability and the offender knows or has reasonable cause to
believe that the other person is a person with a developmental disability.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is guilty of
engaging in prostitution, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Whoever violates
division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of engaging in prostitution with a
person with a developmental disability, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. In sentencing an offender under this division for a
violation of division (B)(2) of this section, the court shall require the
offender to attend an education or treatment program aimed at preventing
persons from inducing, enticing, or procuring another to engage in sexual
activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything of value to the
other person. Notwithstanding the fine specified in R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a) for
a misdemeanor of the first degree, in sentencing an offender under this
division for a violation of division (B)(2) of this section, the court may
impose upon the offender a fine of not more than $1,500.
(R.C. § 2907.231)
§ 137.08 SOLICITING.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly solicit another to engage in sexual activity
for hire in exchange for the person receiving anything of value from the other
person.
   (B)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (A) of this section.
   (C)   As used in division (A) of this section, "sexual activity for hire"
means an implicit or explicit agreement to provide sexual activity in exchange
for anything of value paid to the person engaging in such sexual activity, to
any person trafficking that person, or to any person associated with either
such person.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
soliciting. Soliciting is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of engaging
in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.24)
§ 137.09 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   No person shall engage in sexual activity for hire.
   (B)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in sexual activity for hire.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
prostitution, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of engaging
in prostitution after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.25) (Ord. 1839, passed 4-23-74) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 137.10 DISSEMINATING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, with knowledge of its character or content, shall
recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit,
rent or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles;
      (2)   Directly offer or agree to sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law
enforcement officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement
officers posing as juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or
harmful to juveniles;
      (3)   While in the physical proximity of the juvenile or law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, allow any juvenile or law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile to review or peruse any material or view any live
performance that is harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section,
that involves material or a performance that is harmful to juveniles but not
obscene:
      (1)   The defendant is the parent, guardian or spouse of the juvenile
involved.
      (2)   The juvenile involved, at the time of the conduct in question, was
accompanied by the juvenile’s parent or guardian who, with knowledge of its
character, consented to the material or performance being furnished or
presented to the juvenile.
      (3)   The juvenile exhibited to the defendant or the defendant’s agent or
employee a draft card, driver's license, birth certificate, marriage license,
or other official or apparently official document purporting to show that the
juvenile was eighteen years of age or over or married, and the person to whom
that document was exhibited did not otherwise have reasonable cause to believe
that the juvenile was under the age of eighteen and unmarried.
   (C)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section,
involving material or a performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles,
that the material or performance was furnished or presented for a bona fide
deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present material or a
performance to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section by means of an electronic method of
remotely transmitting information if the person knows or has reason to believe
that the person receiving the information is a juvenile or the group of persons
receiving the information are juveniles.
      (2)   A person remotely transmitting information by means of a method of
mass distribution does not directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present or directly offer or agree to sell, deliver,
furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present the material or
performance in question to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section if either of the following applies:
         (a)   The person has inadequate information to know or have reason to
believe that a particular recipient of the information or offer is a juvenile.
         (b)   The method of mass distribution does not provide the person the
ability to prevent a particular recipient from receiving the information.
   (E)   If any provision of this section, or the application of any provision
of this section to any person or circumstance, is held invalid, the invalidity
does not affect other provisions or applications of this section or related
sections that can be given effect without the invalid provision or application.
To this end, the provisions are severable.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disseminating matter
harmful to juveniles. If the material or performance involved is harmful to
juveniles, except as otherwise provided in this subsection, a violation of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the material or performance
involved is obscene, a violation of this section is a felony and shall be
prosecuted under appropriate State law.
(ORC 2907.31)
§ 137.11 PANDERING OBSCENITY.
   (A)   No person, with knowledge of the character of the material or
performance involved, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Create, reproduce, or publish any obscene material when the
offender knows that the material is to be used for commercial exploitation or
will be publicly disseminated or displayed, or when the offender is reckless in
that regard;
      (2)   Promote or advertise for sale, delivery, dissemination, sell;
deliver, publicly disseminate, publicly display, exhibit, present, rent, or
provide; or offer or agree to sell, deliver, publicly disseminate, publicly
display, exhibit, present, rent, or provide any obscene material;
      (3)   Create, direct, or produce an obscene performance, when the
offender knows that it is to be used for commercial exploitation or will be
publicly presented, or when the offender is reckless in that regard;
      (4)   Advertise or promote an obscene performance for presentation, or
present or participate in presenting an obscene performance, when the
performance is presented publicly, or when admission is charged;
      (5)   Buy, procure, possess, or control any obscene material with purpose
to violate division (A) (2) or (4) of this section.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section, that the
material or performance involved was disseminated or presented for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, religious, governmental, judicial, or other
proper purpose, by or to a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist,
teacher, person pursuing bona fide studies or research, librarian, clergyman,
prosecutor, judge, or other person having a proper interest in the material or
performance.
   (C)   This section shall not apply if the offender has previously been
convicted of a violation of this section or of §
137.10, or a violation of R.C. §§ 2907.31 or 2907.32.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of pandering obscenity, a
felony of the fifth degree.
(R.C. § 2907.32) (Ord. 1839, passed 4-23-74) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 137.12 DECEPTION TO OBTAIN MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of enabling a juvenile to obtain any
material or gain admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles,
shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he is the parent, guardian, or spouse of
such juvenile;
      (2)   Furnish such juvenile with any identification or document
purporting to show that such juvenile is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (B)   No juvenile, for the purpose of obtaining any material or gaining
admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles, shall do either of
the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he is 18 years of age or over or married;
      (2)   Exhibit any identification or document purporting to show that he
is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of deception to obtain matter
harmful to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the second degree. A juvenile who
violates division (B) of this section shall be adjudged an unruly child, with
such disposition of the case as may be appropriate under R.C. Chapter 2151.
(R.C. § 2907.33) (Ord. 1839, passed 4-23-74) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 137.13 PRESUMPTION OF KNOWLEDGE.
   (A)   An owner or manager, or agent or employee of an owner or manager, of a
bookstore, newsstand, theater, or other commercial establishment engaged in
selling materials or exhibiting performances, who, in the course of business
does any of the acts prohibited by Section
137.10, is presumed to have knowledge of the character of the material or
performance involved, if the owner, manager, or agent or employee of the owner
or manager has actual notice of the nature of such material or performance,
whether or not the owner, manager, or agent or employee of the owner or manager
has precise knowledge of its contents.
   (B)   Without limitation on the manner in which such notice may be given,
actual notice of the character of material or a performance may be given in
writing by the chief legal officer of the jurisdiction in which the person to
whom the notice is directed does business. Such notice, regardless of the
manner in which it is given, shall identify the sender, identify the material
or performance involved, state whether it is obscene or harmful to juveniles
and bear the date of such notice.
   (C)   Section
137.10 does not apply to a motion picture operator or projectionist acting
within the scope of employment as an employee of the owner or manager of a
theater or other place for the showing of motion pictures to the general
public, and having no managerial responsibility or financial interest in the
operator’s or projectionist’s place of employment, other than wages.
   (D)   (1)   Sections
137.10,
137.12(A) and
137.14, do not apply to a person solely because the person provided access or
connection to or from an electronic method of remotely transferring information
not under that person’s control, including having provided capabilities that
are incidental to providing access or connection to or from the electronic
method of remotely transferring the information, and that do not include the
creation of the content of the material that is the subject of the access or
connection.
      (2)   Subsection (D)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with an entity actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of Section
 137.10, 137.12 or 137.14, or who knowingly advertises the availability of
material of that nature.
      (3)   Subsection (D)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
provides access or connection to an electronic method of remotely transferring
information that is engaged in the violation of Section
137.10,
137.12 or
137.14, and that contains content that person has selected and introduced into
the electronic method of remotely transferring information or content over
which that person exercises editorial control.
   (E)   An employer is not guilty of a violation of Section
137.10,
137.12 or
137.14 based on the actions of an employee or agent of the employer unless the
employee’s or agent’s conduct is within the scope of employee’s or agent’s
employment or agency, and the employer does either of the following:
      (1)   With knowledge of the employee’s or agent’s conduct, the employer
authorizes or ratifies the conduct.
      (2)   The employer recklessly disregards the employee’s or agent’s
conduct.
   (F)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under Section
137.10 or
137.14 as the section applies to an image transmitted through the internet or
another electronic method of remotely transmitting information that the person
charged with violating the section has taken, in good faith, reasonable,
effective, and appropriate actions under the circumstances to restrict or
prevent access by juveniles to material that is harmful to juveniles, including
any method that is feasible under available technology.
   (G)   If any provision of this section, or the application of any provision
of this section to any person or circumstance, is held invalid, the invalidity
does not affect other provisions or applications of this section or related
sections that can be given effect without the invalid provision or application.
To this end, the provisions are severable.
(ORC 2907.35)
§ 137.14 DISPLAYING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person who has custody, control, or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character or content of the material
involved, shall display at the establishment any material that is harmful to
juveniles and that is open to view by juveniles as part of the invited general
public.
   (B)   It is not a violation of division (A) of this section if the material
in question is displayed by placing it behind “blinder racks” or similar
devices that cover at least the lower two-thirds of the material, if the
material in question is wrapped or placed behind the counter, or if the
material in question otherwise is covered or located so that the portion that
is harmful to juveniles is not open to the view of juveniles.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of displaying matter harmful
to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day during which the
offender is in violation of this section constitutes a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2907.311) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 137.15 UNLAWFUL ADVERTISING OF MASSAGE.
   (A)   No person, by means of a statement, solicitation, or offer in a print
or electronic publication, sign, placard, storefront display, or other medium,
shall advertise massage, relaxation massage, any other massage technique or
method, or any related service, with the suggestion or promise of sexual
activity.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful advertising of
massage, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prevents the legislative authority of a
municipal corporation or township from enacting any regulation of the
advertising of massage further than and in addition to the provisions of
subsections (A) and (B) of this section.
(ORC 2927.17)
§ 137.16 NONCONSENSUAL DISSEMINATION OF PRIVATE SEXUAL IMAGES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CABLE SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.01.
      DIRECT-TO-HOME SATELLITE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. §
303, as amended.
      DISSEMINATE. Means to post, distribute, or publish on a computer device,
computer network, web site, or other electronic device or medium of
communication.
      IMAGE. Means a photograph, film, videotape, digital recording, or other
depiction or portrayal of a person.
      INTERACTIVE COMPUTER SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in the
“Telecommunications Act of 1996”, 47 U.S.C. § 230, as amended.
      INTERNET PROVIDER. Means a provider of internet service, including all of
the following:
         (a)   Broadband service, however defined or classified by the Federal
Communications Commission;
         (b)   Information service or telecommunications service, both as
defined in the “Telecommunications Act of 1996”, 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended;
         (c)   Internet protocol-enabled services, as defined in R.C. §
4927.01.
      MOBILE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended.
      SEXUAL ACT. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Sexual activity;
         (b)   Masturbation;
         (c)   An act involving a bodily substance that is performed for the
purpose of sexual arousal or gratification;
         (d)   Sado-masochistic abuse.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153,
as amended.
      VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly disseminate an image of another person if
all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person in the image is 18 years of age or older.
      (2)   The person in the image can be identified from the image itself or
from information displayed in connection with the image and the offender
supplied the identifying information.
      (3)   The person in the image is in a state of nudity or is engaged in a
sexual act.
      (4)   The image is disseminated without consent from the person in the
image.
      (5)   The image is disseminated with intent to harm the person in the
image.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit the dissemination of an image if any of
the following apply:
      (1)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of a criminal
investigation that is otherwise lawful.
      (2)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of, or in connection
with, the reporting of unlawful conduct.
      (3)   The image is part of a news report or commentary or an artistic or
expressive work, such as a performance, work of art, literary work, theatrical
work, musical work, motion picture, film, or audiovisual work.
      (4)   The image is disseminated by a law enforcement officer, or a
corrections officer or guard in a detention facility, acting within the scope
of the person’s official duties.
      (5)   The image is disseminated for another lawful public purpose.
      (6)   The person in the image is knowingly and willingly in a state of
nudity or engaged in a sexual act and is knowingly and willingly in a location
in which the person does not have a reasonable expectation of privacy.
      (7)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of medical treatment or
examination.
   (D)   The following entities are not liable for a violation of this section
solely as a result of an image or other information provided by another person:
      (1)   A provider of interactive computer service;
      (2)   A mobile service;
      (3)   A telecommunications carrier;
      (4)   An internet provider;
      (5)   A cable service provider;
      (6)   A direct-to-home satellite service;
      (7)   A video service provider.
   (E)   Any conduct that is a violation of this section and any other section
of this Code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (F)(1)(b), (F)(1)
(c), or (F)(1)(d) of this section, whoever violates this section is guilty of
nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images, a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images is
a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, nonconsensual dissemination of
private sexual images is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (d)   If the offender is under 18 years of age and the person in the
image is not more than five years older than the offender, the offender shall
not be prosecuted under this section.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty or disposition authorized or
required by law, the court may order any person who is convicted of a violation
of this section or who is adjudicated delinquent by reason of a violation of
this section to criminally forfeit all of the following property to the state
under R.C. Chapter 2981:
         (a)   Any profits or proceeds and any property the person has acquired
or maintained in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines
to have been acquired or maintained as a result of the violation;
         (b)   Any interest in, securities of, claim against, or property or
contractual right of any kind affording a source of influence over any
enterprise that the person has established, operated, controlled, or conducted
in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines to have been
acquired or maintained as a result of the violation.
   (G)   A victim of a violation of this section may commence a civil cause of
action against the offender, as described in R.C. § 2307.66.
(R.C. § 2917.211)
CHAPTER 138: PUBLIC ORDER
Section
138.01   Riot
138.02   Failure to disperse
138.03   Disorderly conduct
138.04   Disturbing a lawful meeting
138.05   Misconduct at emergency
138.06   Inducing panic
138.07   False alarms
138.08   Disturbing the peace
138.09   Impeding public passage of an emergency service responder
§ 138.01 RIOT.
   (A)   No person shall participate with 4 or more others in a course of
disorderly conduct in violation of §
138.03.
      (1)   With purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of a
misdemeanor, other than disorderly conduct;
      (2)   With purpose to intimidate a public official or employee into
taking or refraining from official action, or with purpose to hinder, impede,
or obstruct a function of government;
      (3)   With purpose to hinder, impede, or obstruct the orderly process of
administration or instruction at an educational institution, or to interfere
with or disrupt lawful activities carried on at such institution.
   (B)   No person shall participate with 4 or more others with purpose to do
an act with unlawful force or violence, even though such act might otherwise be
lawful.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of riot, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2917.03) (Ord. 1839, passed 4-23-74) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 138.02 FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   (A)   Where five or more persons are participating in a course of disorderly
conduct in violation of Section
138.03, and there are other persons in the vicinity whose presence creates the
likelihood of physical harm to persons or property or of serious public
inconvenience, annoyance or alarm, a law enforcement officer or other public
official may order the participants and such other persons to disperse. No
person shall knowingly fail to obey such order.
   (B)   Nothing in this section requires persons to disperse who are peaceably
assembled for a lawful purpose.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to disperse.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (C)(3) hereof, failure
to disperse is a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Failure to disperse is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the
failure to obey the order described in subsection (A) hereof, creates the
likelihood of physical harm to persons or is committed at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
(ORC 2917.04)
§ 138.03 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly cause inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm to
another, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting, in threatening harm to persons or property,
or in violent or turbulent behavior;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise or an offensively coarse utterance,
gesture, or display, or communicating unwarranted and grossly abusive language
to any person;
      (3)   Insulting, taunting, or challenging another, under circumstances in
which that conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
      (4)   Hindering or preventing the movement of persons on a public street,
road, highway, or right-of-way, or to, from, within, or upon public or private
property, so as to interfere with the rights of others, and by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender;
      (5)   Creating a condition that is physically offensive to persons or
that presents a risk of physical harm to persons or property, by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender.
   (B)   No person while voluntarily intoxicated shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   In a public place or in the presence of two or more persons, engage
in conduct likely to be offensive or to cause inconvenience, annoyance, or
alarm to persons of ordinary sensibilities, which conduct the offender, if he
or she were not intoxicated, should know is likely to have such effect on
others;
      (2)   Engage in conduct or create a condition that presents a risk of
physical harm to himself, herself or another, or to the property of another.
   (C)   Violation of any statute or ordinance of which an element is operating
a motor vehicle, locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse is not a violation of division
(B) of this section.
   (D)   If a person appears to an ordinary observer to be intoxicated, it is
probable cause to believe that the person is voluntarily intoxicated for
purposes of division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disorderly conduct.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (E)(2) and (E)(3) of this
section, disorderly conduct is a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Disorderly conduct is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if any of
the following applies:
         (a)   The offender persists in disorderly conduct after reasonable
warning or request to desist.
         (b)   The offense is committed in the vicinity of a school or in a
school safety zone.
         (c)   The offense is committed in the presence of any law enforcement
officer, firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services
person, or other authorized person who is engaged in the person’s duties at the
scene of a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
         (d)   The offense is committed in the presence of any emergency
facility person who is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to three or more violations of division (B) of this section, R.C. § 2917.11(B),
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation
of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2925.01.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.11)
§ 138.04 DISTURBING A LAWFUL MEETING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to prevent or disrupt a lawful meeting,
procession, or gathering, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Do any act which obstructs or interferes with the due conduct of
such meeting, procession, or gathering;
      (2)   Make any utterance, gesture, or display which outrages the
sensibilities of the group.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disturbing a lawful
meeting. Except as otherwise provided in this division, disturbing a lawful
meeting is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Disturbing a lawful meeting is a
misdemeanor of the first degree if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The violation is committed with the intent to disturb or disquiet
any assemblage of people met for religious worship at a tax-exempt place of
worship, regardless of whether the conduct is within the place at which the
assemblage is held or is on the property on which that place is located and
disturbs the order and solemnity of the assemblage.
      (2)   The violation is committed with the intent to prevent, disrupt, or
interfere with a virtual meeting or gathering of people for religious worship,
through use of a computer, computer system, telecommunications device, or other
electronic device or system, or in any other manner.
   (C)   As used in this section:
      COMPUTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      COMPUTER SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      VIRTUAL MEETING OR GATHERING. A meeting or gathering by interactive video
conference or teleconference, or by a combination thereof.
(R.C. § 2917.12) (Ord. 1839, passed 4-23-74) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 138.05 MISCONDUCT AT EMERGENCY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Hamper the lawful operations of any law enforcement officer,
firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services person, or
other authorized person, engaged in the person’s duties at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind;
      (2)   Hamper the lawful activities of any emergency facility person who
is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility;
      (3)   Fail to obey the lawful order of any law enforcement officer
engaged in the law enforcement officer’s duties at the scene of or in
connection with a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit access or deny
information to any news media representative in the lawful exercise of the news
media representative’s duties.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misconduct at an emergency.
Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, misconduct at an emergency is
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If a violation of this section creates a
risk of physical harm to persons or property, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Emergency medical services person” is the singular of “emergency
medical services personnel” as defined in Ohio R.C. 2133.21.
      (2)   “Emergency facility person” is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in Ohio R.C. 2909.04.
      (3)   “Emergency facility” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2909.04.
(ORC 2917.13)
§ 138.06 INDUCING PANIC.
   (A)   No person shall cause the evacuation of any public place, or otherwise
cause serious public inconvenience or alarm, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Initiating or circulating a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime or other catastrophe, knowing that such report
or warning is false;
      (2)   Threatening to commit any offense of violence;
      (3)   Committing any offense, with reckless disregard of the likelihood
that its commission will cause serious public inconvenience or alarm.
   (B)   Division (A) hereof does not apply to any person conducting an
authorized fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inducing panic, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If inducing panic results in physical harm to
any person, economic harm of one thousand dollars ($1,000) or more, if the
public place involved in a violation of this section is a school or an
institution of higher education, or if the violation pertains to a purported,
threatened or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, inducing panic is a
felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
   (D)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section of
the Codified Ordinances may be prosecuted under this section, the other
section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Economic harm” means any of the following:
         (a)   All direct, incidental, and consequential pecuniary harm
suffered by a victim as a result of criminal conduct. “Economic harm” as
described in this division includes, but is not limited to, all of the
following:
            1.   All wages, salaries, or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            2.   The cost of all wages, salaries, or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            3.   The overhead costs incurred for the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct;
            4.   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
         (b)   All costs incurred by the Municipality as a result of, or in
making any response to, the criminal conduct that constituted the violation of
this section or Section
138.07, including, but not limited to, all costs so incurred by any law
enforcement officers, firefighters, rescue personnel, or emergency medical
services personnel of the state or the political subdivision.
      (2)   “School” means any school operated by a board of education or any
school for which the Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum
standards under R.C. § 3301.07, whether or not any instruction, extracurricular
activities, or training provided by the school is being conducted at the time a
violation of this section is committed.
      (3)   “Weapon of mass destruction” means any of the following:
         (a)   Any weapon that is designed or intended to cause death or
serious physical harm through the release, dissemination, or impact of toxic or
poisonous chemicals, or their precursors;
         (b)   Any weapon involving a disease organism or biological agent;
         (c)   Any weapon that is designed to release radiation or
radioactivity at a level dangerous to human life;
         (d)   Any of the following, except to the extent that the item or
device in question is expressly excepted from the definition of “destructive
device” pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 921(a)(4) and regulations issued under that
section:
            1.   Any explosive, incendiary, or poison gas bomb, grenade, rocket
having a propellant charge of more than four ounces, missile having an
explosive or incendiary charge of more than one-quarter ounce, mine, or similar
device;
            2.   Any combination of parts either designed or intended for use
in converting any item or device into any item or device described in division
(E)(3)(d)1. of this section and from which an item or device described in that
division may be readily assembled.
      (4)   “Biological agent” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2917.33.
      (5)   “Emergency medical services personnel” has the same meaning as in
Ohio R.C. 2133.21.
      (6)   “Institution of higher education” means any of the following:
         (a)   A state university or college as defined in Ohio R.C. 3345.12(A)
(1), community college, state community college, university branch, or
technical college;
         (b)   A private, nonprofit college, university or other post-
secondary institution located in this state that possesses a certificate of
authorization issued by the Chancellor of Higher Education pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 1713;
         (c)   A post-secondary institution with a certificate of registration
issued by the State Board of Career Colleges and Schools under Ohio R.C.
Chapter 3332. (ORC 2917.31)
§ 138.07 FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to cause public inconvenience or alarm;
      (2)   Knowingly cause a false alarm of fire or other emergency to be
transmitted to or within any organization, public or private, for dealing with
emergencies involving a risk of physical harm to persons or property;
      (3)   Report to any law enforcement agency an alleged offense or other
incident within its concern, knowing that such offense did not occur;
      (4)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to impede the operation of a critical
infrastructure facility.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person conducting an authorized
fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making false alarms, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If a violation of this section results in
economic harm of one thousand dollars ($1,000) or more, or if a violation of
this section pertains to a purported, threatened, or actual use of a weapon of
mass destruction, making false alarms is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate State law.
   (D)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section of
the Codified Ordinances may be prosecuted under this section, the other
section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2911.21.
      ECONOMIC HARM and WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION have the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2917.31.
(R.C. § 2917.32)
§ 138.08 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, certain words and
phrases used herein are defined as follows:
      AMPLIFIED SOUND means any sound augmented by any electronic means that
increases the sound level or volume.
      BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT means any commercial establishment, including,
without limitation, establishments that are required to obtain a liquor permit.
      LIVE MUSIC means any sound comprised of instrumental music, song, or
combination of instrumental music and song, produced in whole or in part by a
singer vocalizing or by a musician playing a musical instrument on the same
premises as the sound source.
      PERSON(S) means any public corporation, private corporation, individual,
firm, partnership, association, or other entity.
      PLAINLY AUDIBLE SOUND means any sound for which the information content
of the sound is unambiguously communicated to the listener, including, without
limitation, understandable words, comprehensible musical rhythms, beat or
cadence, bells, horns, whistles, or other unreasonably loud noises.
      RECORDED MUSIC means any sound comprised of instrumental music or song,
or combination thereof, produced and generated by a speaker, loudspeaker,
radio, television, or other sound-producing device.
      RESIDENCE also known as a DWELLING UNIT, means one or more rooms
connected together and containing sleeping facilities, whether or not fit for
temporary or overnight rental by one or more persons, and as defined in R.C. §
2909.01(c) as an “occupied structure."
      SOUND SOURCE means the place from which amplified sound emanates
including, without limitation, a speaker, loudspeaker, or any other sound-
producing instrument or person.
   (B)   No person shall make, continue, or cause to be made, or continue any
unreasonably loud, disturbing, or unnecessary noise, which either annoys,
disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort and repose, health, peace, or
safety of others within the municipality.
   (C)   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing,
and unnecessary noises in violation of the provisions of this section, but this
enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive.
      (1)   No person shall recklessly cause any amplified sound, live music,
recorded music, or other noise to cross real property boundaries at such a
volume as to:
         (a)   Disrupt the normal daily activities, including, without
limitation, sleeping, studying, and dining of persons within a residence or
disrupt the normal daily activities, including, without limitation, work of
persons within a place of business.
         (b)   Noise shall be presumed "unreasonably loud" if uninvited noise
is plainly audible at a residential receiving property, or part thereof,
greater than 100 feet away from the property line of the sound source.
      (2)   No person shall recklessly cause an uninvited or disruptive level
of plainly audible sound, amplified sound, live music, recorded music, or other
noise, at a volume that causes actual interference with a person's peaceful
enjoyment of a residence or the peace and good order of the community.
         (a)   A disruptive or uninvited level of amplified sound, live or
recorded music, or other noise is any unreasonably loud or disturbing noise of
a character, intensity, raucousness, or direction as to be detrimental to the
health, peace or safety of any person, whether on a steady or intermittent
basis. At all times, amplified sound, live music, recorded music, or other
noise that is plainly audible and that meets either of the following criteria
is prohibited:
            1.   Noise that is unreasonably loud or disturbing; or
            2.   Noise that crosses real property boundaries and interferes
with the peace, comfort, or enjoyment of persons residing in a dwelling unit or
a residence or a person located at a receiving property.
         (b)   In addition to the criteria set forth in division (C)(2)(a) of
this section, additional restrictions shall be placed on business
establishments which serve alcoholic beverages for consumption on premises.
Because it is reasonable that quieter standards are expected during nighttime
hours, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. from Sundays through
Thursdays, inclusive, and between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on
Fridays and Saturdays, sound emanating from such businesses must be contained
entirely within the real property boundaries of the establishment or within the
soundproof area located on the premises of the establishment.
         (c)   No person shall recklessly, on any public sidewalk, street,
highway, park, or other public property, or in any vehicle located on any
public street or property, use, operate, or play any radio, phonograph, stereo,
sound amplifier, or any other electronic audio device which produces or
reproduces amplified sound, recorded music, or other plainly audible sound, at
a level which is plainly audible at a distance of more than 50 feet or more
from the sound source.
   (D)   Responsibility for compliance; complaint procedures.
      (1)   For purposes of this section, any person(s) owning or having
responsibility for management of a business or who is in control of a
residential premise, and/or however temporary; any paid performer or disc
jockey producing amplified sound, live music, recorded music, or other plainly
audible sound upon any business or residential premises or any person having
control of volume knobs or levels, and the business as named on the certificate
of occupancy or permit and/ or the person controlling the residential premises,
shall be jointly and severally liable for compliance with this section and
shall be responsible for any violations of this section.
      (2)   Under this section the distance from the sound source to a
receiving property shall be measured as follows:
         (a)   In a straight line from the property boundary where the sound
source is located to the property boundary of the receiving property; or
         (b)   If the sound source is within a walled and roofed structure, the
measurement shall be taken in a straight line to the property boundary of the
receiving property from one of the following:
            1.   The exterior of the structure at the point that is closest to
the receiving property; or
            2.   If one or more doors or windows are present, any of such open
doors or windows at the point that is closets to the receiving property.
   (E)   Exceptions. This section does not apply to any of the following
circumstances:
      (1)   The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to tire
existence of an emergency, or the emission of sound from warning devices
necessary for the protection of public safety;
      (2)   Sound emanating from outdoor gatherings, public concerts, shows,
and sporting and entertainment events, sponsored, or permitted in accordance
with the policies and/ or procedures of the City, or by a school district or
other school charted or accredited by the state of Ohio;
      (3)   Construction, Emergency work, and other operations conducted by the
City;
      (4)   Construction, landscaping or lawn mower operations occurring
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., provided that all equipment is
operated in accordance with the manufacture's specifications and/or with all
standard manufacture's mufflers and noise reducing equipment in use and in
proper operating condition;
      (5)   The loading and/or unloading of commercial waste receptacles
between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. within 500 yards of any
residential zoned property;
      (6)   Sound emanating from safety signals, warning devices, emergency
pressure relief valves, and church bells.
      (7)   Sound emanating from a motor vehicle that is owned and operated by
the state, a political subdivision, or a public utility.
      (8)   A motor vehicle that is participating in a parade for which all
proper permits have been obtained.
      (9)   Sound conducted in conjunction with a funeral or memorial service,
to include but not limited to, discharging of blank ammunition, the playing of
taps or other appropriate music, or musical instruments.
      (10)   Vendors of ice cream and related products in accordance with §
111.06 between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
   (F)   Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of disturbing
the peace, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Ord. 3670, passed 7-14-20) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 138.09 IMPEDING PUBLIC PASSAGE OF AN EMERGENCY SERVICE RESPONDER.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly obstruct any
highway, street, sidewalk, or any other public passage in such a manner as to
render the highway, street, sidewalk, or passage impassable without
unreasonable inconvenience or hazard if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The obstruction prevents an emergency vehicle from accessing a
highway or street, prevents an emergency service responder from responding to
an emergency, or prevents an emergency vehicle or an emergency service
responder from having access to an exit from an emergency.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a request or order from an emergency service
responder to remove or cease the obstruction, the person refuses to remove or
cease the obstruction.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not limit or affect the application
of R.C. § 2921.31 or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code. Any conduct
that is a violation of division (A) of this section and that also is a
violation of R.C. § 2921.31 or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code may
be prosecuted under this section, the other section of the Ohio Revised Code,
or both sections.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawfully impeding public
passage of an emergency service responder, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, EMERGENCY SERVICE RESPONDER has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 2903.13.
(R.C. § 2917.14)
CHAPTER 139: WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES
Section
139.01   Use of crossbows, bow and arrows prohibited
§ 139.01 USE OF CROSS BOWS, BOW AND ARROWS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall discharge any bow and arrow, not designed or intended
as a child's toy, or a crossbow within the corporate limits of the
municipality. A child's toy shall be any bow that takes less than eight pounds
of pull force for normal operation of the bow, and the arrows shall have rubber
or other soft tips for safety.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the use of such items in any
agricultural district, bona fide ranges or sportsman clubs in the city.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(Ord. 2957, passed 10-25-94) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 140: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 141: DRUG PARAPHERNALIA REGULATIONS
Section
141.01   Definitions
141.02   License required
141.03   Required records
141.04   Sale or display to minors regulated
141.05   Exceptions
141.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Drug abuse, see §
136.12
   Abusing harmful intoxicants, see §
136.13
§ 141.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as provided in R.C. §
3719.01 and any amendments thereto.
   (B)   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. Any device, instrument, kit, equipment, material,
or product which is either designed by the manufacturer or marketed by a
retailer so that by virtue of its objective design features or by virtue of the
manner in which it is displayed for sale, that its principal use appears to be
for planting, propagating, cultivating, producing, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, cutting, smoking, consuming, inhaling,
injecting, ingesting, testing, preparing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, containing, concealing, or other use with a controlled substance. In
determining whether an object or collection of objects is drug paraphernalia as
described above, the following factors may be considered, in addition to other
logically relevant factors.
      (1)   Statements by an owner or employee of the retailer concerning the
use of an object.
      (2)   Opinions of persons who qualify as experts by knowledge, skill,
experience, training, or education as to the principal use of the object by
virtue of its design characteristics or by virtue of the manner in which it is
displayed.
      (3)   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale, including but
not limited to, the following.
         (a)   Within the same room, the display of words, publications,
symbols, posters, or other items visible to customers which either promote,
condone, or represent the use of controlled substances other than under legal
or prescribed circumstances.
         (b)   Written instructions provided with or displayed near the object
concerning its use or the use of similar objects.
         (c)   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict the use of the object or similar objects.
      (4)   National or local advertising concerning the use of the object or
similar objects.
      (5)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community.
      (6)   Provided they meet the foregoing criteria, the following items
shall be presumed to be drug paraphernalia.
         (a)   Kits principally designed or marketed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived.
         (b)   Kits principally designed or marketed for use in the
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, or preparing
controlled substances.
         (c)   Isomerization devices principally designed or marketed for use
in increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled
substance.
         (d)   Testing equipment principally designed or marketed for use in
identifying, or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness, or purity of
controlled substances.
         (e)   Scales and balances principally designed or marketed for use in
weighing or measuring controlled substances.
         (f)   Diluents and adulterants such as quinine hydrochloride,
mannitol, mannite, dextrose, and lactose, principally designed or marketed for
use in cutting controlled substances.
         (g)   Separation gins and sifters principally designed or marketed for
use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining,
marijuana.
         (h)   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons, and mixing devices
principally designed or marketed for use in compounding controlled substances.
         (i)   Capsules, balloons, envelopes, and other containers principally
designed or marketed for use in packaging small quantities of controlled
substances.
         (j)   Containers and other objects principally designed or marketed
for use in storing or concealing controlled substances.
         (k)   Hypodermic or other syringes, needles, and other objects
principally designed or marketed for use in parenterally introducing controlled
substances into the human body.
         (l)   Objects principally designed or marketed for use in ingesting,
inhaling, or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil
into the human body, such as the following.
            1.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic
pipes with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured
metal bowls.
            2.   Water pipes.
            3.   Carburetion tubes and devices.
            4.   Smoking and carburetion masks.
            5.   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning material,
such as a marijuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be
held in the hand.
            6.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials.
            7.   Chamber pipes.
            8.   Carburetor pipes.
            9.   Electric pipes.
            10.   Air-driven pipes.
            11.   Chillums.
            12.   Bongs.
            13.   Ice pipes or chillers. (Ord. 2436, passed 4-24-84)
§ 141.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall sell or offer for sale or display for sale any drug
paraphernalia without first obtaining a license as described herein. The
license shall be in addition to any other licenses held or required to be held
by the applicant.
   (B)   Annual applications for licenses shall be made to the Chief of Police
upon forms supplied by his office and shall require that the following be
furnished.
      (1)   The name of the applicant and of each of its officers, partners,
business associates, and managers.
      (2)   The location of the enterprise and its name, if different from
applicant's name.
      (3)   Acknowledgment and representation by the applicant that it is
familiar with the requirements of this chapter and will inform all persons it
employs within this municipality of the requirements thereof.
      (4)   The annual license fee shall be $500. The licenses are not
transferable.
      (5)   Such application shall be accompanied by an affidavit by each
individual applicant and each person employed by the applicant within the
municipality that such person has never been convicted of a drug abuse offense.
      (6)   A separate license shall be required for each location at which
drug paraphernalia is sold or held for sale within this municipality.
   (C)   Within 15 days after an application is received for such licenses, an
inspection of the premises will be made by the Chief of Police or his
designated representative for purpose of determining whether the premises
comply with the requirements of this chapter. In particular, any such premises
must be reasonably designed so as to limit the controlled entry of minors into
an area where drug paraphernalia is either sold or displayed. (Ord. 2436,
passed 4-24-84) Penalty, see § 141.99
§ 141.03 REQUIRED RECORDS.
   (A)   Every licensee must keep an accurate record of every item, affect,
paraphernalia accessory, or thing which is designed or marketed for use with
illegal cannabis or drugs which is sold by the licensee or his employees or
agents, and this record shall be open to the inspection of any police officer
at any time during the business hours of the establishment selling these items.
   (B)   Such records shall contain the following information.
      (1)   The name and address of the purchaser.
      (2)   The name and quantity of the product and the generic name or type
of product.
      (3)   The date and time of sale.
      (4)   Licensee or his agents signature.
      (5)   The type of identification used to verify the age of purchaser.
   (C)   The records described in divisions (A) and (B) shall be retained by
the licensee for not less than two years and shall be open to the inspection of
the Chief of Police or his designated representative upon request at reasonable
times during the two-year period. (Ord. 2436, passed 4-24-84) Penalty, see §
141.99
§ 141.04 SALE OR DISPLAY TO MINORS REGULATED.
   (A)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any drug paraphernalia to any
minor, unless the minor is accompanied by his parent or legal guardian.
   (B)   No person shall permit any minor to enter, view the interior of, or
remain in any room or enclosure wherein drug paraphernalia is sold, offered for
sale, or displayed for sale unless such minor is accompanied by his parent or
legal guardian. Each entrance to any such room or enclosure must be
conspicuously posted with a sign which states that the entry of minors into
such room or enclosure unless accompanied by a parent or legal guardian is
prohibited.
   (C)   No person shall display for sale or permit the display for sale of
drug paraphernalia under circumstances where it is likely to be viewed by
minors other than as permitted under division (B) of this section. (Ord. 2436,
passed 4-24-84) Penalty, see § 141.99
§ 141.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to any of the following.
   (A)   Any pharmacist or other authorized person who sells or furnishes drug
paraphernalia described in § 141.01(B) upon the prescription of a physician,
dentist, podiatrist, or veterinarian.
   (B)   Any physician, dentist, podiatrist, or veterinarian who furnishes or
prescribes drug paraphernalia described in § 141.01(B) to his patients.
   (C)   Any manufacturer, wholesaler, or retailer licensed by the Ohio State
Board of Pharmacy to sell or transfer drug paraphernalia described in § 141.01
(B). (Ord. 2436, passed 4-24-84)
§ 141.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of §§ 141.02 or 141.03 of this chapter
shall be fined not more than $500. Each day that a violation continues shall be
deemed a separate and distinct offense. Imposition of such a fine shall in no
way waive any right of the municipality to enjoin the continued violation of
this chapter.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provisions of § 141.04 shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day that a violation of § 141.04(C)
continues shall be considered a separate violation. (Ord. 2436, passed 4-24-84)
Cross-reference:
   Classification of misdemeanors, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 142: MINOR'S CURFEW
Section
142.01   Definitions
142.02   Curfew for minors
142.03   Exceptions
142.04   Parental responsibility
142.05   Disposition of minor
142.99   Penalty
§ 142.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 18 years.
   PARENT. Any natural or adoptive parent, guardian, or any adult person
responsible for the care and custody of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any public street, highway, road, alley, park, playground,
public building, vacant lot, or privately-owned property permitted to be used
by the public or certain members thereof.
   SHALL. Always mandatory and not merely directory. (Ord. 2623, passed 12-8-
87)
§ 142.02 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   No minor under the age of 16 years shall loiter, idle, wander, stroll,
or play in, on, or about public places or public buildings, or be found upon a
bicycle, motorcycle, or any vehicle on any public place or place of amusement
or entertainment, or on vacant lots or other unsupervised places in the city
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day; however, on
Saturdays and Sundays the hours shall be from 12:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.
   (B)   No minor 16 years old or older shall loiter, idle, wander, stroll, or
play in, on, or about public places or public buildings, or be found upon a
bicycle, motorcycle, or any vehicle on any public place or place of amusement
or entertainment, or on vacant lots or other unsupervised places in the city
between the hours of 12:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day; however, on
Saturdays and Sundays the hours shall be from 1:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.
(Ord. 2645, passed 1-26-88) Penalty, see § 142.99
§ 142.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to a minor accompanied by
his or her parent, guardian, or other adult person having care and custody of
such minor, or where such minor is attending a legitimate school, church, or
youth activity or function, provided that the minor shall have permission to
attend such function or other activity from the minor's parent, guardian, or
other adult person having his or her custody and care.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to a minor that is on
an emergency errand or on legitimate business directed by his or her parents,
guardian, or other adult person having care and custody of the minor.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any minor where the
minor is gainfully employed, the employment requires the minor to be in
violation of this chapter, and the employment is with the consent and
permission of the parent, guardian, or other person having the care and custody
of the minor.
(Ord. 2623, passed 12-8-87)
§ 142.04 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   No parent, guardian, or other adult person having legal custody or control
of any minor shall knowingly permit or allow such minor to be on or remain on
any public place in violation of the provisions of this chapter. KNOWINGLY
includes knowledge which a parent should reasonably be  expected to have
concerning the whereabouts of a minor in that person's custody or control. It
shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section when a child is
found in violation of § 142.02 and the parent of such child has. been served
with a warning under § 142.05 hereof.
(Ord. 2623, passed 12-8-87) Penalty, see § 142.99
§ 142.05 DISPOSITION OF MINOR.
   (A)   Any police officer who finds a minor in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter shall obtain from the minor his or her name,
address, age, and the names of his or her parents, and shall advise the minor
that he or she is in violation of the curfew. The officer shall escort the
minor to the Police Department or to his or her home or usual place of abode,
as the situation warrants. Upon contacting the parents, guardian, or person
having custody or care of such minor, a written notice shall then be issued to
such parent or parents, guardian, or person having custody and care of such
minor, advising them of the minor's violation of this chapter and advising them
that a violation of this chapter may result in full enforcement of this
chapter, including enforcement of parental responsibility and applicable
penalties under the terms of this chapter.
   (B)   If the police officer is unable to contact the parent or parents,
guardian, person having custody and care of such minor, or another responsible
adult, he shall detain such minor until such person may be located to take
charge of the minor, or the minor may be transferred to the juvenile
authorities.
(Ord. 2623, passed 12-8-87) Penalty, see § 142.99
§ 142.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any minor violating any provision of this chapter shall be dealt with
in accordance with Juvenile Court law and procedure.
   (B)   Any parent, guardian, or person having care and custody of a minor who
violates the terms of this chapter, after having been previously notified under
§ 142.05, shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine
not to exceed $100.
(Ord. 2623, passed 12-8-87)
CHAPTER 143: PANHANDLING
Section
143.01   Definitions.
143.02   Panhandling restrictions and prohibitions.
143.03   False or misleading representations.
143.04   Panhandling by minors.
143.05   Exclusion.
143.99   Penalty.
§ 143.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   As used in Sections
143.01 to
143.03 of the Code of City Ordinances:
      (1)   "Public Property" means all property owned, controlled, or operated
by any governmental entity, including but not limited to governmental offices
or facilities, public streets, publicly owned parking lots, schools, libraries,
post offices, transit facilities, and other public lands, parks, buildings, or
grounds.
      (2)   "Automated-teller machine" means a bank or other financial
institution's machine that is able to carry out financial transactions,
including, but not limited to cash withdrawals, deposits, transfers, and other
financial transactions or inquiries.
      (3)   "Right-of-way" shall have the same meaning as in Section 4511.01
(UU) of the Ohio Revised Code and/or Section
70.01 of the West Carrollton Code of Ordinances.
      (4)   "Panhandling" shall mean to request verbally, in writing, or by
gesture or other actions, money, items of value, a donation, or other personal
financial assistance. Further, panhandling shall further include any request
for a person to purchase an item for an amount that a reasonable person would
consider to be in excess of its value.
   (B)   "Aggressive Manner" shall mean as follows:
      (1)   Both before, during, or after attempting to engage in panhandling,
any behavior that would cause a reasonable person to feel intimidated,
threatened, or restrained, including but not limited to the use of any verbal
threats, threatening gestures, abusive language, obscene gestures or obscene
language, or screaming and other unreasonable noises.
      (2)   Both before, during, or after attempting to engage in panhandling,
blocking the passage of any person or vehicle.
      (3)   After a person has given a negative response to a solicitation for
panhandling, any further attempt to solicit for panhandling.
      (4)   Both before, during, or after attempting to engage in panhandling,
having any physical contact with the person that is being solicited by the
person panhandling and/or touching or having physical contact with the
clothing, purse, or other personal property of the person being solicited by
the person panhandling.
      (5)   Both before, during, or after attempting to engage in panhandling,
following the person that is being solicited.
      (6)   Any further attempt to solicit for panhandling after the owner or
occupant of private property requests that the person cease all solicitation
for panhandling, upon the request of the owner or occupant of the private
property for the person panhandling to leave the property.
      (7)   Any type of panhandling which interferes or disrupts any activity
or event occurring on public property, as defined in this Chapter.
      (8)   By coming within three (3) feet of the person solicited after that
person has indicated that he does not wish to make a donation.
      (9)   By following a person who walks away from the solicitor.
      (10)   By making unreasonable noise or offensively course utterance,
gesture, or display or communicating unwarranted or grossly abusive language,
either during the solicitation or following a refusal; or
      (11)   By panhandling in a group of two or more persons.
(Ord. 3500. Passed 1-10-12.)
§ 143.02 PANHANDLING RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall solicit for panhandling in any of the following manners:
   (A)   In any type of aggressive manner as defined in this chapter.
   (B)   On any private property in which there is any type of written notice
prohibiting solicitation and/or panhandling.
   (C)   On any other private property, unless the person panhandling has
obtained prior permission from the owner or occupant.
   (D)   Within twenty (20) feet of any pedestrians waiting in line for service
or waiting in line for an event.
   (E)   Within twenty (20) feet of any pedestrians waiting in line to obtain
access to a building.
   (F)   Within twenty (20) feet of any entrance or exit of the building for
any check cashing business, bank, credit union, or savings and loan during the
hours of operation for any of these businesses.
   (G)   Within twenty (20) feet of any automated-teller machine, as defined in
this chapter, during its hours of operation.
   (H)   At any bus stops or bus shelters.
   (I)   In any vehicle within the right-of-way as defined in this chapter.
   (J)   In any public transportation vehicle or any public transportation
facility.
   (K)   Within twenty (20) feet of the area of the sidewalk used by an outdoor
restaurant.
   (L)   Within twenty (20) feet of the entrance or exit of any public
facility.
   (M)   On public property within twenty (20) feet of an entrance to a
building.
   (N)   On public property within twenty (20) feet of an entrance to a parking
lot.
   (O)   On a public street, by intentionally or recklessly blocking the safe
or free passage of a person or vehicle.
   (P)   From any operator or passenger of a motor vehicle or any person
entering or exiting a motor vehicle. (Ord. 3500. Passed 1-10-12.)
§ 143.03 FALSE OR MISLEADING REPRESENTATIONS.
   No person shall solicit for panhandling in any of the following manners:
   (A)   Making statements or representing, either verbally or in writing, that
the person panhandling suffers from a medical condition, mental or physical
disability, or deformity, when in fact the person does not suffer from a
medical condition, mental or physical disability, or deformity;
   (B)   Making statements or representing, either verbally or in writing, that
the person panhandling has a minor child or other family member they are
supporting who suffers from a medical condition, mental or physical disability,
or deformity, when in fact that child or other family member does not suffer
from a medical condition, mental or physical disability, or deformity and/or
the person panhandling does not support that minor child or other family
member;
   (C)   Making a statement or representing, either verbally or in writing,
that the person panhandling is a military veteran or active duty military
member, when a person is not a military veteran or active duty military member;
   (D)   Making a statement or representing, either verbally or in writing,
that the person panhandling needs a donation to meet a specific need, when the
person panhandling does not have the specific need and/or that person already
has sufficient funds to meet that need and does not disclose that the person
already has sufficient funds;
   (E)   Making a statement or representing, either verbally or in writing,
that the person panhandling is unemployed when the person panhandling is not
unemployed; or
   (F)   Making a statement or representing, either verbally or in writing,
that the person panhandling is homeless and/or is stranded when in fact the
person is not homeless or stranded.
(Ord. 3500. Passed 1-10-12.)
§ 143.04 PANHANDLING BY MINORS.
   No parent, guardian, or other custodian of a minor child shall allow or
cause, or direct a minor to engage in panhandling. Further, no other adult
shall cause a minor to panhandle.
(Ord. 3500. Passed 1-10-12.)
§ 143.05 EXCLUSION.
   Panhandling shall not include solicitations made for money or a donation by
a charitable or civic organization which does so with the prior permission of
the owner or occupant of the premise.
(Ord. 3500. Passed 1-10-12.)
§ 143.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates this section is guilty of panhandling, a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(Ord. 3500. Passed 1-10-12.)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
   
150.   BUILDING CODE
   
151.   FIRE PREVENTION CODE
   
152.   SUBDIVISION CODE
   
153.   SIGNS
   
154.   ZONING CODE
   
155.   FAIR HOUSING PRACTICES
   
156.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION CODE
      APPENDIX:   EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL MEASURES
   
157.   FEES FOR LAND USAGE APPLICATIONS
   
158.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
   
159.   PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
   
160.   PUBLIC NUISANCES
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODE
Section
Adoption of Building Codes
150.01   Adoption of National Electrical Code
150.02   Adoption of International Building Code (IBC)
150.025   Adoption of Residential Code of Ohio.
150.03   Adoption of Ohio Building Code
150.035   Adoption of Ohio Mechanical Code
150.04   Conflict of provisions
150.05   Plan review fee schedule for construction under the Ohio Building Code
150.06   Plan review fee schedule under the Residential Code of Ohio.
150.07   Permit fee schedules
150.08   Duties of Building Inspector; flood areas
150.09   Violations and enforcement
Park Development Fees
150.10   Building permit fees
150.11   Use of fees
150.12   Park and recreation capital improvement fund
150.13   Fee required prior to permit issuance
150.14   Conflict
150.15   City interests protected
Moving Buildings
150.20   Permit required
150.21   Application information; outside corporate limits
150.22   Application information; within corporate limits
150.23   Public meeting for property owners in close proximity
150.24   Council decision on application
150.25   Fee required
150.26   Bond required
150.27   Liability insurance
150.28   Council recommendations for moving
150.29   Inspector of building moving
150.30   Leaving structure on public property
150.31   Application of building codes
150.32   Application of subdivision and zoning code
House Trailers
150.40   Definitions
150.41   Location of house trailer
150.42   Permit required for trailer tourist camp
150.43   Application for permit
150.44   Investigation and approval of camp
150.45   Issuance of permit
150.46   Proximity to residence district
150.47   Location of tourist camp
150.48   Minimum area for individual house trailers
150.49   Fence required for trailer camp
150.50   Sanitary and other facilities
150.51   Refuse and sewage disposal
150.52   Water supply
150.53   Entrances and roadways
150.54   Management
150.55   Parking house trailers
150.56   General regulating authority
150.57   Revocation or suspension of permits
150.58   Notice; appeal
Fences and Walls
150.60   Definitions (Repealed)
150.60.1Classification of fences (Repealed)
150.61   Permit, plan, and inspection (Repealed)
150.62   Location of fences and walls (Repealed)
150.63   Intersection visibility (Repealed)
150.63.1   Construction requirements (Repealed)
150.64   Swimming pools (Repealed)
150.65   Barbed wire fences (Repealed)
150.66   Height of fences atop retaining walls (Repealed)
150.67   Variances (Repealed)
150.68   Fences or walls required by the Planning Commission or the Board of
Zoning Appeals (Repealed)
150.69   Electrified fences (Repealed)
150.69.1Fences around trash receptacles (Repealed)
Nuisances Relative to Buildings or Structures
150.70   Definitions
150.71   Abatement notice; remedy; hearing
150.72   No restriction on authority
Nuisances Relative to Premises
150.75   Definitions (Repealed)
150.76   Prohibited conditions (Repealed)
150.77   Order for removal (Repealed)
150.78   Time limit for storing materials (Repealed)
150.79   Removal of garbage (Repealed)
150.80   Procedure after notice and failure to comply (Repealed)
150.81   Removal of litter by owner or occupant (Repealed)
Street Address Numbers
150.85   Display of street numbers (Repealed)
150.86   Removing or defacing numbers (Repealed)
Demolition of Structures
150.87   Definitions (Repealed)
150.88   Permit required; disconnection of utilities (Repealed)
150.89   Bond or other surety required (Repealed)
150.90   Site conditions (Repealed)
150.91   Time limit for permit (Repealed)
150.92   Demolition permit fee (Repealed)
150.99   Penalty
ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODES
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter stated, the 2005 edition of the National Fire
Protection Association's National Electrical Code (NEC) and any subsequent
revisions of such code or amendments thereto, is adopted by reference for the
purpose of safeguarding persons and property from hazards arising from the use
of electricity in the city.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of any work covered by the provisions of the
National Electrical Code, a permit shall be obtained by the property owner or a
legal agent for the property owner.
   (C)   A final inspection and approval must be obtained before the use or
occupancy of any equipment or structure.
(Ord. 3288. Passed 2-8-05.)
§ 150.02 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE (IBC).
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, the latest edition as published of the
International Building Code (IBC) and any subsequent amendments thereto, is
adopted by reference by the City in order to provide for the safety of the
citizens from all the hazards incident to the design, erection, repair,
removal, demolition, or use and occupancy of buildings, structures, or
premises.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of any work under the IBC Code, the property
owner or a legal agent for the property owner must obtain a permit for the
work.
   (C)   A final inspection and approval must be obtained before the use or
occupancy of any equipment or structure.
(Ord. 3288. Passed 2-8-05.)
§ 150.025 ADOPTION OF RESIDENTIAL CODE OF OHIO.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, the most current State mandated
version of the Residential Code of Ohio is adopted by reference by the City in
order to provide for the safety of the citizens from all hazards incident to
the design, erection, repair, removal, demolition, or use and occupancy of
buildings, structures or premises.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of any work covered under the Residential
Code of Ohio, the property owner or a legal agent for the property owner shall
obtain a permit.
   (C)   A final inspection and approval must be obtained before the use or
occupancy of any equipment or structure.
(Ord. 3329. Passed 5-23-06.)
§ 150.03 ADOPTION OF OHIO BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, the state mandated edition of the Ohio
Building Code and any subsequent amendments thereto, is adopted by reference by
the City in order to provide uniform minimum standards and requirements for the
erection, construction, repair, alteration, and maintenance of buildings,
structures, or premises in the City.
   (B)   Ohio Building Code and appendices shall be enforced by the City,
excepting only the Plumbing Chapters.
   (C)   The Chief Building Inspector is authorized and directed to delegate to
the proper department of Montgomery County, Ohio, the authority to issue
permits for and make inspections of plumbing within the City, to insure
compliance with the Unified Building Code adopted by Montgomery County pursuant
to § 108.03 of such Building Code or other codes as may be adopted by
Montgomery County.
   (D)   Prior to the commencement of any work covered by the Ohio Building
Code, a permit shall be obtained by the property owner or a legal agent for the
property owner.
   (E)   A final inspection and approval must be obtained before the use or
occupancy of any equipment or structure.
(Ord. 3288. Passed 2-8-05.)
§ 150.035 ADOPTION OF OHIO MECHANICAL CODE.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, the state mandated edition of the Ohio
Mechanical Code and any subsequent amendments thereto, is adopted by reference
by the City in order to provide uniform minimum standards and requirements for
the erection, construction, repair, alteration, and maintenance of buildings,
structures or premises in the City.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of any work covered by the Ohio Mechanical
Code, a permit shall be obtained by the property owner or a legal agent for the
property owner.
   (C)   A final inspection and approval must be obtained before the use or
occupancy of any equipment or structure.
(Ord. 3288. Passed 2-8-05.)
§ 150.04 CONFLICT OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   In the event of a conflict between any requirements of the National
Electrical Code, the International Building Code, the Residential Code of Ohio,
the Ohio Building Code, or the Ohio Mechanical Code, the more stringent
requirements shall be applicable and enforced.
(Ord. 3329. Passed 5-23-06.)
   (B)   Nothing contained in the provisions of this chapter shall relieve or
be interpreted as relieving any person, firm, or corporation from complying
with all other ordinances, laws, rules, and regulations of the city or other
government agencies, whether now in force or hereafter enacted, regulating and
governing the issuance of building permits for the construction of residential,
commercial, business, or industrial structures in the city.
(Ord. 3288. Passed 2-8-05.)
§ 150.05 PLAN REVIEW FEE SCHEDULE FOR CONSTRUCTION UNDER THE OHIO BUILDING
CODE.
   (A)   The fee for a plan review shall be at the current hourly rate of the
city's designated plans examiner for each hour or part thereof.
   (B)   The plan review fee is designed to reflect costs incurred for this
service, and the fee is nonrefundable.
   (C)   The applicant for any Zoning Certificate for new construction of,
addition to, or demolition of a principal structure within the Heritage
District and the Conservation District shall pay the City a plan review fee for
the cost of architectural review of the proposal as required by Sections
154.10.481 through
154.10.502 and
154.15.01 through
154.15.10. This cost shall be as set forth in Section
37.23 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton. (Ord. 3346. Passed 7- 10-07; amend. Ord. 3436. Passed
12-22-09.)
§ 150.06 PLAN REVIEW FEE SCHEDULE UNDER THE RESIDENTIAL CODE OF OHIO.
   (A)   The fee for a plan examination of one, two, and three family
structures shall be as set forth in Section
37.24 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton.
   (B)   The applicant for any Zoning Certificate for new construction of,
addition to, or demolition of a principal structure within the Heritage
District and the Conservation District shall pay the City a plan review fee for
the cost of architectural review of the proposal as required by Sections
154.10.492 and
154.15.01 through
154.15.10. This cost shall be the actual cost which the City paid the
architectural consultant to review the proposal and shall be paid at the time
the permit is approved by the City. (Ord. 3346. Passed 7-10-07; amend. Ord.
3436. Passed 12-22-09.)
§ 150.07 PERMIT FEE SCHEDULES.
   The permit fees as set forth in Section
37.25 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton shall apply.
(Ord. 3436. Passed 12-22-09.)
§ 150.08 DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR; FLOOD AREAS.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall review all building permit applications
for new construction or substantial improvements to determine whether proposed
building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding. If a proposed building
site is in a location that is a flood hazard, any proposed new construction or
substantial improvement, including prefabricated and mobile homes, must:
      (1)   Be designed, or modified and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement of the structure;
      (2)   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are resistant
to flood damage; and
      (3)   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
   (B)   The Building Inspector, Miami Conservancy, and the Planning Commission
shall review subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments to
assure that:
      (1)   All proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems are located, elevated, and constructed to
minimize or eliminate flood damage; and
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall require new or replacement water supply
systems and sanitary sewage systems to be designed to minimize or eliminate
infiltration of flood waters into the systems and discharges from the systems
into flood waters, and require on-site waste disposal systems to be located so
as to avoid impairment of them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 3288. Passed 2-8-05.)
§ 150.09 VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Violate any provision of these codes or fail to comply with any of
the requirements of these codes; or
      (2)   Erect, construct, alter, repair, or do any work upon or in
connection with any structure in violation of an approved plan or statement of
specifications therefor; or
      (3)   Fail to obey any legal order of any officer charged with the
enforcement of these codes. (Ord. 3288. Passed 2-8-05.)
   (B)   Nothing contained herein or in the Ohio Building Code, the National
Electrical Code, the Residential Code of Ohio, or the International Building
Code shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding now pending in any
court or any rights acquired or liability incurred, nor cause or causes of
action accrued or existing under any act or ordinance repealed hereby. Nor
shall any right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired or affected by the
adoption of any provision hereof.
   (C)   The Building Inspection Department is hereby authorized to enforce the
provisions of the Ohio Building Code, the National Electrical Code, the
Residential Code of Ohio, and the International Building Code adopted herein
and to enforce all subsequent amendments to such codes.
   (D)   The Clerk of Council is hereby directed to keep one copy of the
National Electrical Code, the Residential Code of Ohio, the International
Building Code, the Ohio Building Code, and the Ohio Mechanical Code, and any
amendments thereto on file for inspection by any member of the public.
(Ord. 3329. Passed 5-23-06.)
PARK DEVELOPMENT FEES
§ 150.10 BUILDING PERMIT FEE.
   There is hereby established a fee of 1/2 of 1% estimated cost of
construction, to be paid on each building permit issued for the construction of
a residence structure, including but not limited to multiple-family dwellings
in the city. ('70 Code, § 1311.01)
§ 150.11 USE OF FEES.
   All fees shall be used for the acquisition, purchase, development, and
equipping of existing and future parks and park sites in the city. However, no
part of the fees may be used for the purpose of paying salaries or wages. ('70
Code, § 1311.02)
§ 150.12 PARK AND RECREATION CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   A parks and recreation capital improvement fund is established, into which
all fees collected under this chapter shall be paid. ('70 Code, § 1311.03)
§ 150.13 FEE REQUIRED PRIOR TO PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   No building permit for the construction of a residence structure, including
but not limited to multiple-family dwellings in the city, shall be issued
unless and until the fee provided for in this chapter is paid. ('70 Code, §
1311.04)
§ 150.14 CONFLICT.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall relieve or be interpreted as
relieving any person, firm, or corporation from complying with all other
ordinances, laws, rules, and regulations of the city or other governmental
agencies, whether now in force or hereafter enacted, regulating and governing
the issuance of building permits for the construction of residence structures
and/or commercial, business, or industrial structures, in the city. ('70 Code,
§ 1311.05)
§ 150.15 CITY INTERESTS PROTECTED.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall affect or be interpreted as
affecting the right, title, and interest acquired by the city in and to any of
the areas heretofore purchased by or dedicated to the city by developers. ('70
Code, § 1311.06)
MOVING BUILDINGS
§ 150.20 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall commence any work on moving or preparing for moving any
building from or to any site within or without the limits of the city, through
the streets or over public property, without first securing a permit therefor
from the Council. ('70 Code, § 1313.01) Penalty, see §
150.99 (A)
§ 150.21 APPLICATION INFORMATION; OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   Any person desiring to move any building through the city to a site located
outside of the corporate limits of the city shall make application to Council,
submitting the following exhibits:
   (A)   The location of the building to be moved, before it is moved, the
proposed streets or other public property over which the building will be
moved, the designation of the location to which the building will be moved.
   (B)   The location of all sidewalks, curbs, culverts, and bridges over which
the building will be moved.
   (C)   The total combined weight of the building to be moved and the moving
vehicle and the total height and width of the building in place on the moving
vehicle. ('70 Code, § 1313.02) Penalty, see §
150.99 (A)
§ 150.22 APPLICATION INFORMATION; WITHIN CORPORATE LIMITS.
   Any person desiring to move any building to any site located within the
corporate limits of the city shall make application to Council, submitting the
following exhibits:
   (A)   The location of the building to be moved, before it is moved; the
proposed streets or other public property over which the building will be
moved; the designation of the location to which the building will be moved.
   (B)   The location of all sidewalks, curbs, culverts, and bridges over which
the building shall be moved.
   (C)   The total combined weight of the building to be moved and the moving
vehicle and the total height and width of the building in place on the moving
vehicle.
   (D)   Photographs of the building to be moved.
   (E)   Photographs of all adjoining buildings within 200 feet of the proposed
lot or site.
   (F)   Plot plan of the lot showing the proposed location of construction and
exact lot and building dimensions.
   (G)   Floor plan of the building to be moved, with exact dimensions.
   (H)   Plans of any remodeling.
   (I)   List of the property owners, with names and addresses, within 200 feet
of the proposed site. ('70 Code, § 1313.03) Penalty, see §
150.99 (A)
§ 150.23 PUBLIC MEETING FOR PROPERTY OWNERS IN CLOSE PROXIMITY.
   Where a building is proposed to be moved to a site within the city, Council
may notify all property owners within 200 feet of the proposed site of a public
meeting to be held to receive comments of the parties notified. ('70 Code, §
1313.04)
§ 150.24 COUNCIL DECISION ON APPLICATION.
   Council shall, within 30 days after the hearing set forth in §
150.23, make its decision of approval or disapproval of the building moving
permit application. ('70 Code, § 1313.05)
§ 150.25 FEE REQUIRED.
   No building moving permit shall be granted until a fee as set forth in
Section
37.26, of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton is paid to the city by the applicant therefor. ('70
Code, § 1313.06 ; amend. Ord. 3436. Passed 12-22-09.) Penalty, see §
150.99 (A)
§ 150.26 BOND REQUIRED.
   No building moving permit will be granted until the applicant therefor has
posted a bond, with sufficient sureties thereon, payable to the city, in a
principal sum to be fixed by council, insuring the city against any and all
damage to public property occasioned by the moving. ('70 Code, § 1313.07)
Penalty, see §
150.99 (A)
§ 150.27 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   No building moving permit will be granted until the applicant therefor shall
have furnished to Council, to its satisfaction, evidence that the applicant is
covered against general liability, including personal injury and property
damage to third parties, in an amount to be determined by Council, but in no
event, to be less than $100,000/$200,000. ('70 Code, § 1313.08) Penalty, see §
150.99 (A)
§ 150.28 COUNCIL RECOMMENDATIONS FOR MOVING.
   Council may prescribe conditions, requirements, routes, and precautions, the
day or days and the hours of the day during which the moving operations shall
be conducted, as deemed necessary in the public interest, and all moving shall
be performed in conformity therewith. ('70 Code, § 1313.09) Penalty, see §
150.99 (A)
§ 150.29 INSPECTOR OF BUILDING MOVING.
   Whenever deemed necessary in the public interest, Council or the City
Manager may require that the moving operations be conducted in the presence and
under the supervision of an inspector of building moving, designated by it or
him, who shall perform the required services at the cost of the person doing
the moving or the owner of the property being moved. ('70 Code, § 1313.10)
§ 150.30 LEAVING STRUCTURE ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall permit any building or other structure or part thereof, to
stand on any street or other public property for a period longer than that
prescribed in the permit therefor. ('70 Code, § 1313.11) Penalty, see §
150.99 (A)
§ 150.31 APPLICATION OF BUILDING CODES.
   All applicants for a building moving permit shall, in addition to the fee
charged herein, be subject to the provisions of the codes adopted in §§
150.01, 150.02, and 150.03, and shall secure building permits for any building
or buildings to be located within the corporate limits. ('70 Code, § 1313.12;
amend. Ord. 2194, passed 3-11-80) Penalty, see §
150.99 (A)
§ 150.32 APPLICATION OF SUBDIVISION AND ZONING CODE.
   All persons moving any house or building to any site within the corporate
limits shall be subject to the provisions of the subdivision code and the city
zoning code, where applicable. ('70 Code, § 1313.13)
Penalty, see §
150.99 (A)
HOUSE TRAILERS
§ 150.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§
150.41 through 150.58, the following words and phrases shall have the following
meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   (A)   DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH. The Montgomery County Board of Health. The
county board of health inspectors or county health commissioner shall have the
final control of all plumbing, sanitary, or health facilities and problems
within any trailer camp or court.
   (B)   HOUSE TRAILER. Any vehicle used by one or more persons as sleeping or
living quarters, mounted on wheels or to which wheels have been or may be
applied, and capable of being propelled either by its own power or by power
applied to it. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing definition, any
street or traction car used for sleeping or living quarters shall be
considered, for purposes of this chapter as a house trailer.
   (C)   SELF-CONTAINED HOUSE TRAILER. Any vehicle used by one or more persons
as sleeping or living quarters and which contains all necessary sanitary,
cooking, and other living facilities within the vehicle, and does not require
connection to any outside source, other than an electric connection to an
outside generator.
   (D)   TRAILER TOURIST CAMP. Any plot or parcel of ground which meets all
regulations and requirements hereinafter prescribed and which has a valid and
subsisting permit, issued by the city manager, to operate the same for the
convenience of 2 or more house trailer owners and residents. ('70 Code, §
1317.01; amend Ord. 1763, passed 1-23-73)
§ 150.41 LOCATION OF HOUSE TRAILER.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
150.55, no person shall use for human habitation within the city any house
trailer, unless it is located in an approved trailer tourist camp, and unless
it is used in strict compliance with the regulations hereinafter prescribed for
the operation of trailer tourist camps.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation owning or operating a camp car or
trailer located in the city shall remove or cause to have removed the wheels or
any similar transporting devices from the camp car or trailer, or otherwise
permanently fix it to the ground in a manner that would prevent the ready
removal of the camp car or trailer. ('70 Code, § 1317.02) Penalty, see §
150.99 (C)
§ 150.42 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR TRAILER TOURIST CAMP.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish, maintain, operate, or
conduct within the city any trailer tourist camp on any plot or parcel of land,
for use of transients or other persons by the day, week, or season, whether
charge is or is not made, who does not possess a valid permit issued by the
city manager to do so, and unless the same shall be conducted in strict
compliance with the permit and all provisions of law or ordinance relating to
the same. ('70 Code, § 1317.03) Penalty, see §
150.99 (C)
§ 150.43 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person or persons, firm, or corporation hereafter applying for a
permit to establish, maintain, operate, or conduct within the city a trailer
tourist camp, shall file with the city manager a written application for the
permit, and shall include a complete plan of the proposed camp showing:
      (1)   Legal boundaries of the area to be used for camp purposes;
      (2)   Proposed entrance and roadways or driveway;
      (3)   Proposed locations or sites for house trailers;
      (4)   Location of all proposed sanitary conveniences, laundry buildings,
and slop sinks, basins, incinerator, and fire extinguishers;
      (5)   Plan for water supply;
      (6)   Proposed method of sewage and surface drainage disposal;
      (7)   Plan for electric lighting;
      (8)   Typical plan for proposed buildings to house toilets, shower baths,
washrooms, and laundry, and a statement of the proposed method to be used for
the disposal of garbage and other refuse.
   (B)   The application shall be filed by the owner, manager, or proprietor of
the camp and sworn to before a notary public. The person filing the application
and making the affidavit before a notary public shall be the person in charge
of the camp and responsible for the upkeep, maintenance, and sanitary condition
thereof. Any change in management of the camp shall be registered with the city
manager by sworn affidavit of the new proprietor or manager. The application
for permit shall be accompanied by a fee of $75 for 5 units or less, plus $40
for each additional 5 units or fraction thereof, which fee, if a permit is
subsequently issued, shall be applied to the permit fee, otherwise to be
returned to the applicant. ('70 Code, § 1317.04) Penalty, see §
150.99 (C)
§ 150.44 INVESTIGATION AND APPROVAL OF CAMP.
   The city manager shall cause a complete inspection of the complete trailer
tourist camp to be made, and shall determine that all installations have been
made in accordance with the approved camp plan and in accordance with all other
regulations and requirements hereinafter set forth, prior to final approval and
issuance of the permit for the operation and occupancy of the camp. ('70 Code,
§ 1317.05)
§ 150.45 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   Upon final approval of the trailer tourist camp by the city manager, he may
issue the permit therefor. The permit shall be for a period of one year and the
fee therefor shall not be prorated for any less period. ('70 Code, § 1317.06)
§ 150.46 PROXIMITY TO RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   Any trailer tourist camp hereafter established within the city shall be at
least 600 feet from any residence district, unless separated therefrom by a
natural or artificial barrier such as a river, railroad, levee, embankment,
etc. ('70 Code, § 1317.07)
Penalty, see §
150.99 (C)
§ 150.47 LOCATION OF TOURIST CAMP.
   All land used as a tourist camp shall be located on well drained sites of
ample size, and free from heavy or dense growth of brush or weeds. The land
shall be properly graded so as to insure rapid drainage during and following
rain, and shall be drained so as to be free from stagnant pools of water. ('70
Code, § 1317.08) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.48 MINIMUM AREA FOR INDIVIDUAL HOUSE TRAILERS.
   In tourist or house trailer parks hereafter constructed, changed, or added
to, each house trailer shall be allocated an area of not less than 1,250 square
feet. The individual house trailer lot boundaries shall be indicated by corner
markers. The site shall be level, free from rocks, and well drained. No house
trailer shall be located:
   (A)   Closer than 20 feet to any street property line or any adjacent
property line;
   (B)   Closer than 6 feet to any individual house trailer lot boundary line;
and
   (C)   Closer than 10 feet to any other house trailer, building, slop sink,
garbage or refuse depository or water faucet within the defined camp. ('70
Code, § 1317.09) Penalty, see §
150.99 (C)
§ 150.49 FENCE REQUIRED FOR TRAILER CAMP.
   Each trailer camp or court shall be separated from all adjoining properties
with a woven wire fence not less than 5 feet in height. ('70 Code, § 1317.10)
Penalty, see §
150.99 (C)
§ 150.50 SANITARY AND OTHER FACILITIES.
   Each camp for which a permit is issued shall provide at locations
hereinafter defined: toilets, urinals, wash basins, slop sinks, showers or
baths, water faucets, etc., in accordance with the following specifications:
   (A)   One toilet or stool for each sex for every 15 house trailer units or
fraction thereof.
   (B)   Each toilet room provided for men shall have in addition, one urinal
stall.
   (C)   Each toilet room having 3 toilets or less shall be provided with one
lavatory or wash basin.
   (D)   One shower or bathtub shall be provided for each sex for each 15 house
trailer units or fraction thereof.
   (E)   All toilets, basins, showers, baths or laundry facilities shall be
placed in properly constructed buildings located not more than 300 feet from
any house trailer unit.
   (F)   Buildings shall be well lighted at all times, day or night, well
ventilated with screened openings and constructed of the moisture-proof
material, including well painted woodwork, as shall permit rapid and
satisfactory scouring and washing.
   (G)   The floors shall be of concrete or similar material, elevated not less
than 4 inches above ground level and each room provided with floor drains.
   (H)   Slop sinks or basins with water supply shall be provided in numbers
and constructed in accordance with the design, size, and material as required
by the department of health, and the same shall be located not more than 150
feet from each trailer unit.
   (I)   All plumbing installations shall be made in accordance with the
requirements set forth in the plumbing code of the state.
   (J)   Toilet facilities for men and women shall either be in separate
buildings at least 20 feet apart or shall be separated, if in the same
building, by a soundproof wall.
   (K)   A cement platform of adequate and approved size, completely draining
to a catch basin, shall be provided to be used for draining waste water tanks
and for the washing of automobiles and house trailers. No waste water shall be
discharged from any waste tanks upon the ground or any other place, except on
the cement platform. Each platform shall be flushed as often as necessary to
keep it clean and in a sanitary condition. ('70 Code, § 1317.11)
Penalty, see §
150.99 (C)
§ 150.51 REFUSE AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   All garbage and waste shall be disposed of in accordance with the
regulations of the city garbage and other refuse collection service, or
otherwise removed from the premises in accordance with any other regulations
which may be deemed necessary by the city manager.
   (B)   Covered solid metal garbage pails and covered solid metal rubbish
containers shall be provided and shall be of the capacity and number as to
properly take care of all garbage and refuse emanating from the house trailers
intended to be serviced.
   (C)   All drains from showers, sinks, or toilets, wherever the connection is
available, must be connected with the city sewer system in a manner approved by
the city manager. Where a sewer is not available, a connection shall be made
with a septic tank of the construction, capacity, and location as shall meet
with the approval of the city manager.
   (D)   The use of any type of chemical toilets or other similar fixtures in
house trailers, prohibited.
   (E)   No fires at any time shall be so located as to endanger automobiles or
other property. No fires shall be left unattended at any time, and all fires
shall be completely extinguished before leaving.
   (F)   An approved incinerator shall be furnished in accordance with
specifications or regulations by the safety committee of council for the
burning of all combustible waste or rubbish, unless daily removal of all waste,
rubbish, trash, etc. is provided. ('70 Code, § 1317.12) Penalty, see §
150.99 (C)
§ 150.52 WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   Each trailer tourist camp shall be provided with an adequate supply of
water furnished through an approved pipe distribution system connected directly
with city water mains. No common drinking vessels shall be permitted. No
drinking water faucets shall be placed in any toilet room or water closet
compartment. Supply faucets should be located within at least 100 feet from any
house trailer.
   (B)   Fire hydrants of a type approved by the city manager shall be provided
so that no house trailer will be further than 300 feet from a fire hydrant,
measured along any public or private street. ('70 Code, § 1317.13) Penalty, see
§
150.99 (C)
§ 150.53 ENTRANCES AND ROADWAYS.
   All entrances and exits from the camp shall be well marked and so arranged
that they will not constitute a traffic hazard. All driveways within the
tourist camp shall be hard surfaced and not less than 20 feet in width, well
marked in the day time and lighted at night, and so located that each unit of
the camp is easily accessible.
('70 Code, § 1317.14) Penalty, see §
150.99 (C)
§ 150.54 MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Each trailer tourist camp shall be under the direct management of the
owner, his agent or representative. The person or persons must be of good
reputation and character and shall operate the camp from an office located on
the grounds, and in which offices shall be maintained a record of all guests
noting:
      (1)   Name and address of each occupant;
      (2)   License number of all units;
      (3)   State issuing the licenses;
      (4)   Statement indicating the exact previous location of the house
trailer, (street, address, city and state).
   (B)   A copy of the registry shall be posted in or on the house trailer for
which it is issued. The manager's copy shall be available for inspection by any
person at all times, shall be neatly and securely maintained, and no record
shall be destroyed until the expiration of a 12 month period following the date
of registration.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the camp manager to:
      (1)   Provide for the collection and removal of garbage or other waste
material;
      (2)   Prohibit the placing or storage of unsightly material or vehicles
of any kind;
      (3)   Provide for the regular cleaning, painting, repairing, or
disinfecting of all buildings within the camp area;
      (4)   Execute other measures as may be deemed necessary by the officials
charged with the enforcement of this chapter to preserve the health, comfort,
safety, and general welfare of all persons residing in the camp and of the
general public;
      (5)   Cause each dog, cat, or other pet animal to be kept under control
either by being tied up or confined in a proper enclosure;
      (6)   Report to the city manager all cases of diseases effecting any
resident of the camp;
      (7)   Prevent the committing of any nuisance on the camp premises and
report immediately to the proper authorities, all acts of a disorderly
character committed by any person or persons within the camp;
      (8)   Adopt any measures necessary to prevent trespassing upon premises
of adjacent property owner;
      (9)   Require that each trailer shall be equipped with a fire
extinguisher approved for oil and electrical types of fire;
      (10)   Post copies of standard state rules (Ohio Sanitary Code
regulations 260 through 290) in conspicuous places. ('70 Code, § 1317.15)
Penalty, see §
150.99 (C)
§ 150.55 PARKING HOUSE TRAILERS.
   (A)   Overnight parking of house trailers shall be prohibited on any street
or land in the city, except in an approved camp, provided that not more than
one house trailer of a nonpaying guest of a resident of the city may park on
the property of the resident for not exceeding 72 hours in one month, provided
a police permit has been secured and the trailer is located not less than 10
feet from any building or other trailer. No inhabited house trailer shall be
permitted in any trailer camp in the city for a period of time to exceed one
month in each 12 months, unless the trailer is located in a trailer camp which
is at least 600 feet from any residence district or unless the trailer camp is
separated from the district by a natural or artificial barrier, such as a
river, railroad, levee, embankment, etc.
   (B)   Parking and occupancy of self-contained house trailers shall be
permitted on city owned or operated parks for occupancy by persons serving or
operating recreational or other special events approved by the city, provided a
permit has been secured from the Building Inspector prior to the occupancy of
the trailer. A fee of $3 shall be charged for each permit issued hereunder and
shall be issued under rules and regulations established by the City Manager.
('70 Code, § 1317.16; amend Ord. 1763, passed 1-23-73) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.56 GENERAL REGULATING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The City Manager or his duly designated representative shall at all
times have the right to enter upon the premises of a trailer tourist camp.
   (B)   The City Manager may prescribe additional reasonable regulations
governing the trailer camp or court operations as may become necessary to
protect the safety, health, and welfare of the inhabitants. ('70 Code, §
1317.17)
§ 150.57 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMITS.
   The City Manager may at any time, at his discretion or upon the request of
the Department of Health, Chief of Police, Fire Chief or any city inspector,
revoke or suspend a permit issued under the authority of this chapter for
failure to comply with any requirements herein set forth.
('70 Code, § 1317.18)
§ 150.58 NOTICE; APPEAL.
   In case of a revocation or suspension of a permit, a notice shall be served
on the camp manager specifying his failure to comply and requesting him to
appear before a board of review, composed of the City Manager, the Chief
Building Inspector and a representative of the County Board of Health, not less
than 72 hours after personal service of notice. The camp manager shall be
required to show cause why the permit should not be revoked and he shall have
the right to introduce relevant evidence as he may desire, and the board of
review shall confront him with all charges placed against him. After the
hearing, the board of review at its discretion may reinstate, revoke, or
suspend the permit.
('70 Code, § 1317.19)
FENCES AND WALLS
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Former Sections 150.60 to 150.69.1 were repealed by
Ordinance 3459, passed November 9, 2010.)
NUISANCES RELATIVE TO BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES
§ 150.70 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of §§
150.70 through 150.81, the following words and phrases shall have the following
meaning ascribed to them respectively.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any fence, wall, shed, house, building, structure, or any
part of the aforesaid, or the lot, lots, or parcel of land, basement, cellar,
sidewalk subspace, dock, wharf, or landing dock which, in its entirety or in
any part thereof, by reason of the condition in which the same is permitted to
be or remain, shall or may endanger the health, life, limb, or property, or
cause any hurt, harm, inconvenience, discomfort, damage, or injury to any one
or more persons in the city, in any one or more of the following particulars:
      (1)   Being a nuisance to the general health of the community.
      (2)   Being a fire hazard.
      (3)   Being unsafe for occupancy or use on, in, upon, about, or around
the aforesaid premises.
      (4)   Being a nuisance because of long continued vacancy, lack of
reasonable or adequate maintenance of structure and/or premises adjacent
thereto, thereby depreciating the enjoyment and use of the property in the
immediate vicinity to the extent that it is harmful to the community in which
the structure is situated.
(`70 Code, Section 1321.01; amend. Ord. 2692, passed 1-10-89; amend. Ord. 2982,
passed 7-11-95)
§ 150.71 ABATEMENT NOTICE; REMEDY; HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever the City Manager or his designee, determines that there has
been a violation of any provision of §
150.70, in the city, he shall give legal notice of such violation to the person
or persons responsible therefor, and require compliance with the ordinance, as
hereinafter provided. Such legal notice and requirements shall be served upon
the owner, occupant, or agent, in person. However, this notice shall be deemed
to be properly served upon the owner, occupant, or agent if a copy thereof is
sent by registered or certified mail to his last known mailing address,
residence, or place of business, or a copy is posted in a conspicuous place in
or on the premises affected. If a registered or certified mail envelope is
returned with an endorsement showing that service was refused, the notice may
be served by ordinary mail to his last known mailing address, residence or
place of business. The mailing shall be evidenced by a certificate of mailing,
and service shall be deemed complete on the date of mailing. If the registered
or certified mail envelope is returned with an endorsement showing that the
service was unclaimed, the notice may be served by ordinary mail to his last
known mailing address, residence or business. The mailing shall be evidenced by
a certificate of mailing, and service shall be deemed complete on the date of
mailing, provided that the ordinary mail envelope is not returned to the postal
authorities with an endorsement showing failure of delivery. If service of the
written notice is unable to be perfected by any of the hereinbefore methods,
the City Manager or his designee shall cause the notice to be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city, once each week for two
consecutive weeks or a copy of the notice may be posted on the premises.
   (B)   The aforesaid notice shall state, in brief, the findings of the above
mentioned officer or officers of the city with respect to the existence of a
public nuisance, as defined in §
150.70, and shall further state that unless the owner or owners thereof shall
cause the abatement of the public nuisance within 30 days after the service of
the notice, the same will be abated by the city at the expense of the owner or
owners. The owner or owners may at any time after receipt of the notice make a
request in writing or in person to the City Manager or his designee, to be
furnished with a written list of the items which are alleged to constitute the
public nuisance and which are alleged to be in need of repair and/or
replacement, and/or removal. (Ord. 2982. Passed 7-11-95.)
   (C)   The owner or owners may make immediate application in writing or in
person to the City Manager or his designee for a building permit to undertake
the repair or replacement of items alleged to constitute the public nuisance.
The City Manager or his designee, upon receiving the complete plans and
specifications covering the repairs or replacements, indicating abatement of
the nuisance conditions and in conformity with the Ohio Building Code, the
Residential Code of Ohio, or the National Electric Code shall, upon approval of
the plans and specifications, cause a building permit to be issued to the owner
or owners. The City Manager or his designee may grant more than 30 days to the
owner or owners, in which to effect the repairs and/or replacements and/or
removal, if there appears to be a bona fide intention to abate the nuisance and
good cause for a reasonable delay is shown to exist.
(Ord. 3329. Passed 5-23-06.)
   (D)   The owner or owners may, within 14 days after receipt of the notice,
make a demand in writing to the Maintenance Code Appeals Board for a hearing on
the question of whether in fact a public nuisance, as defined by §
150.70, exists and/or whether more than 30 days should be granted to the owner
or owners to abate the nuisance. The hearing shall be held within reasonable
time following receipt of the written demand and at least two days' notice of
the hearing shall be given to the owner or owners. The hearing shall be
conducted by the Maintenance Code Appeals Board. A majority of the members of
the Board must concur that a public nuisance, as defined by §
150.70, exists before enforcement of the abatement is carried out. A majority
of the Board may amend or modify the notice and/or order, or extend the time
for compliance by the owner. A copy of the decision and order of the Board
shall be promptly served upon the owner or owners in the manner provided by
this section. The decision and order of the Board shall be final and
conclusive, unless the owner or owners shall file, within ten days after the
decision is rendered, an appeal to a court of competent jurisdiction.
Otherwise, the same shall become final and conclusive at the termination of
said ten day period.
(Ord. 2982, passed 7-11-95) Penalty, see §
150.99(E)
§ 150.72 NO RESTRICTION ON AUTHORITY.
   This chapter shall not be deemed to be a limitation or restriction on the
authority of any department, division, officer, official, or employee of the
city, but shall be deemed as an enlargement of any authority existing by virtue
of the statutes of the state, or any ordinance heretofore enacted by Council.
(Ord. 2982, passed 7-11-95)
NUISANCES RELATIVE TO PREMISES
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Former Sections 150.75 through 150.81 were repealed by
Ordinance 3421, passed May 26, 2009. See Chapter 158 for relevant legislation.)
STREET ADDRESS NUMBERS
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Former Sections 150.85 and 150.86 were repealed by Ordinance
3421, passed May 26, 2009. See Chapter 158 for relevant legislation.)
DEMOLITION OF STRUCTURES
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Former Sections 150.87 through 150.92 were repealed by
Ordinance 3421, passed May 26, 2009. See Chapter 158 for relevant legislation.)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
150.20 through 150.32 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (B)   Whoever violates §§
150.36 or 150.37 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
150.41 through 150.55 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (D)   Whoever violates any provision of §§ 150.60 through 150.65, 150.69, or
150.69.1 shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor for the first offense and shall
be guilty of a fourth degree misdemeanor for each subsequent offense.
   (E)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of §§
150.71, 150.76, 150.77, 150.78, or 150.79 shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor for a first offense and shall be guilty of a fourth degree
misdemeanor for each subsequent offense. Each violation or failure to comply
shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (F)   Whoever violates any provision of §
150.09 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day that any
violation or failure continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (G)   Whoever violates any provision of §§ 150.85 and 150.86 shall be guilty
of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2982, passed 7-11-95)
   (H)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of
Sections 150.87 to 150.91 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree, and
shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months, or
both. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 3192. Passed 11-27-01.)
(NOTE: The next printed page is page 25.)
CHAPTER 151: FIRE PREVENTION CODE
Section
151.01   Code adopted; identity and purpose
151.02   File and distribution copies
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 CODE ADOPTED; IDENTITY AND PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to Section 5.07 of the Charter, there is hereby adopted by and for
the Municipality the latest and most current edition of the Ohio Fire Code, as
adopted by the Ohio Department of Commerce, Division of State Fire Marshal,
published in Division 1301:7 of the Ohio Administrative Code.
(Ord. 3542. Passed 1-14-14.)
§ 151.02 FILE AND DISTRIBUTION COPIES.
   Copies of the Ohio Fire Code, as adopted in Section
151.01, are on file with the Clerk of Council for inspection by the public.
Copies are also on file in the County Law Library. In addition, the Clerk of
Council has copies available for distribution to the public at cost.
(Ord. 3542. Passed 1-14-14.)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of the Ohio Fire Code as herein adopted or
any other provisions of this chapter, or fails to comply with any lawful order
made thereunder, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Any
violations shall constitute a separate offense on each successive day
continued.
Penalty, see Section
130.99.
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISION CODE
Section
152.01   Adoption by reference
§ 152.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The booklet entitled “Subdivision Regulations for the City of West
Carrollton” is adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out herein.
Copies of the “Subdivision Regulations for the city of West Carrollton” shall
be available for public inspection at the city offices. (Ord. 2145, passed 7-
10-79; Am. Ord. 2360, passed 1-25-83; Am. Ord. 2908, passed 10-5-93)
CHAPTER 153: SIGNS
Section
   
153.01   Purposes
   
153.02   Viewpoint neutrality
   
153.03   Substitution of non-commercial message for commercial message
   
153.04   Consent of legal owner of property
   
153.05   Definitions
   
153.06   Computations
   
153.07   Scope
   
153.08   Maximum sign area permitted
   
153.09   Supplemental requirements for wall signs
   
153.10   Maximum height of freestanding signs
   
153.11   Supplemental requirements for freestanding signs
   
153.12   Sports facility sponsorship signs
   
153.13   Temporary signs
   
153.14   Signs exempt or partially exempt from regulation
   
153.15   Prohibited signs
   
153.16   Construction standards for signs
   
153.17   Maintenance
   
153.18   Administrative procedures
   
153.19   Regulations for nonconforming signs
   
153.20   Permit conditions and refunds
   
153.21   Inspections
   
153.22   Licenses
   
153.23   Indemnification and insurance
   
153.24   Application of chapter
   
153.25   Severability
   
153.26   Signs allowed in the right-of-way and on public property
 
   
153.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A
   
Appendix B
   
Appendix C
   
Appendix D
   
Appendix E
   
Appendix F
§ 153.01 PURPOSES.
   In the interest of promoting the general health, safety and welfare of the
residents of the city, these regulations are herein established to provide for
the location, size, height and physical characteristics of signs, in order to
ensure that all signs are appropriate to, and compatible with, the character of
the associated uses and of the surrounding area.
   In establishing these purposes, the city has determined that no sign shall
be permitted, erected or maintained as a main or accessory use except in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, unless such sign is exempted
from the provisions of this chapter.
   More specifically, the purposes of these regulations are to:
   (A)   Enhance and protect the physical appearance and aesthetic value of the
community.
   (B)   Promote and maintain attractive, high value residential, retail,
commercial and industrial districts, and preserve the scenic and natural beauty
of designated areas.
   (C)   Provide appropriate signage for all residential, institutional and
business uses in the community.
   (D)   Ensure that signs are located and designed to maintain a safe and
orderly pedestrian and vehicular environment, and to avoid confusion or
hazardous conflict between traffic control signs and devices, and any other
permitted sign.
   (E)   Protect the safety and general welfare of the public who travel in
and/or through the City of West Carrollton by reducing the distractions to
motorists and thus reducing traffic and safety hazards.
   (F)   Protect the safety and general welfare of the public by decreasing the
number of accidents, injuries, and deaths occurring on the interstate system
and primary highway within the City of West Carrollton.
   (G)   To provide the public with a safe and effective means of locating
businesses, services and points of interest within the municipality.
   (H)   To protect the rights of property owners and occupants to display
messages protected by the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution.
   (I)   Provide review procedures that enable and ensure the comprehensive
evaluation of a sign's appropriateness to the site, building and surroundings,
adherence to these purposes, and consistent enforcement of this chapter's
regulations.
   (J)   Establish and enforce a reasonable procedure for the eventual removal
of nonconforming signs.
   (K)   Prohibit all signs, including off-premise signs, not expressly
permitted by this chapter.
   (L)   Recognize the unique impact of off-premise advertising on public
safety, visual aesthetics, and quality of life, to restrict new off-premise
signs and minimize the impact of existing off-premise signs.
(Ord. 3752, passed 7-11-23)
§ 153.02 VIEWPOINT NEUTRALITY.
   (A)   Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary, no sign or
sign structure shall be subject to any limitation based upon the viewpoint of
the message contained on such sign or displayed on such sign structure.
   (B)   Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary, it is the
policy of the city to regulate signs in a manner that does not favor commercial
speech over non-commercial speech and does not regulate protected non-
commercial speech by message content.
   (C)   Within this chapter, any distinction between on-premise signs and off-
premise signs applies only to commercial messages. It does not apply to non-
commercial messages.
(Ord. 3752, passed 7-11-23)
§ 153.03 SUBSTITUTION OF NON-COMMERCIAL MESSAGE FOR COMMERCIAL MESSAGE.
   Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter to the contrary, any sign
erected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter may, at the option of the
owner, contain a non-commercial message in lieu of a commercial message and the
non-commercial message may be substituted in whole or in part at any time in
place of the commercial message. The non-commercial message may occupy the
entire sign face or any portion thereof. The sign face may be changed from a
commercial message to a non-commercial message or from one non-commercial
message to another non-commercial message; provided, however, that there is no
change in the size, height, setback or spacing criteria contained in this
section.
(Ord. 3752, passed 7-11-23)
§ 153.04 CONSENT OF LEGAL OWNER OF PROPERTY.
   Except as required by state law, no sign may be displayed without the
consent of the legal owner of the property on which the sign is located. For
purposes of this section, "owner" means the holder of the legal title to the
property and any party and person holding a present legal right to possession,
control, or use of the property.
(Ord. 3752, passed 7-11-23) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.05 DEFINITIONS.
   Signs shall further be defined as follows and as generally illustrated in
Appendix A:
   ABANDONED SIGN. (1) Any sign or its supporting sign structure which remains
without a message or whose display surface remains blank for a period of one
year or more (for a sign or its supporting sign structure which conforms to
this chapter at the time of adoption); or (2) any commercial sign which
pertains to a time, event or purpose which no longer applies; or (3) a
deteriorated sign (as defined in herein) or a sign that is not adequately
maintained, repaired, or removed within the specified time as ordered by this
chapter.
   ANIMATED OR FLASHING SIGN. Any sign having a conspicuous and intermittent
variation in the physical position of any part of the sign and/or in the
illumination of the sign.
   ATTENTION-ATTRACTING DEVICE. Any device, such as balloons, searchlights,
twirling signs, inflatable objects, or the like, intended to attract the
attention of the public to an establishment, location, product or service.
   BANDIT SIGN. A small, portable temporary sign typically comprised of
doubled-sided corrugated plastic and measure up to 24 inches by 24 inches, and
mounted on an H-wire stake planted in the ground.
   BANNER SIGN. A temporary sign consisting of lightweight fabric or similar
material either enclosed or not enclosed in a rigid frame, and secured or
mounted to allow motion caused by the atmosphere. Banner signs shall also
include those signs commonly known as "feather banners", "banner flags", or
"beachwings".
   BILLBOARD. See OFF-PREMISE SIGN.
   CANDELA. A candela is a unit of luminous intensity or candlepower. In
layman's terms, a wax candle emits about one candela (or candle) in all
directions. In technical terms, a candela is a lumen per steradian, and is
equal to 1/60 of the luminous intensity per square centimeter of a blackbody
radiating at the temperature of solidification of platinum (2.046 degrees
Kelvin). It is used for "point" sources to calculate how much light is cast on
a surface no matter where the surface is.
   CANOPY OR AWNING SIGN. A sign painted or printed on, or attached to any
awning, canopy, or other fabric, plastic, or similar structural protective
cover over a door entrance or window.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN A sign, where the message or graphics are not
permanently affixed to the structure, framing or background, where the message
may be replaced periodically, either manually, mechanically or electronically,
and provided such sign does not constitute an animated or flashing sign as
defined above, and regulated in §
153.11(C). Electronic changeable copy shall include any portion of a sign using
any combination of light emitting diodes (LED's) or other light emitting
technology, fiber optics, light bulbs, or other illumination device within the
display area, and shall meet the requirements § of Section
153.11(C).
   COMMERCIAL MESSAGE. Any sign wording, logo, or other representation that,
directly or indirectly, names, advertises, or calls attention to a business,
product, service, or other commercial activity.
   COMMERCIAL SIGN. A sign which contains a commercial message.
   CORPORATE LIMIT SIGN. Signs established by the city, located on city
property, to designate its boundaries to persons traveling into the community.
Corporate limit signs may include the signs of nonprofit organizations.
   DETERIORATED SIGN. Showing signs of weathering, rust, corrosion, exposed
wiring, chipped paint or faces, cracked, broken, torn, or missing faces, or
loose materials, or other evidence of disrepair.
   FESTOONS. A string of ribbons, tinsel, pinwheels, incandescent light bulbs
or similar devices that are not an integral, physical part of the building or
structure they are intended to serve.
   FLAG. Any fabric or similar lightweight material attached at one end of the
material, usually to a staff or pole, so as to allow movement of the material
by atmospheric changes and which contains distinctive colors, patterns,
symbols, emblems, insignia, or other symbolic devices used to represent a
government, political subdivision, and/or any organization, whether for-profit
or not-for-profit, but not including a commercial message.
   FOOTCANDLE. A measurement of light intensity at an illuminated object. One
footcandle is the illuminance at a point on a surface which is one foot from,
and perpendicular to, a uniform point source of one candela.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. A non-movable sign anchored directly to the ground or
supported by one or more posts, columns, or other vertical structures or
supports, and not attached to or dependent for support from any building. A
freestanding sign may also be referred to as a ground sign.
   GOVERNMENT SIGN. A sign designed for control of, or to provide information
to, traffic and other regulatory functions, and signs of public utilities and/
or common carriers indicating danger and/or location of facilities and/or
components, and aids for service or safety which are erected by the order of a
public officer in the performance of his or her public duty.
   HAND-HELD SIGN. A portable commercial sign that is held, carried, worn,
balanced by or otherwise mounted on a person which is typically intended to
target vehicular traffic as its audience. A hand-held sign shall include a
human or animal used as an advertising device for commercial establishments,
typically by holding or wearing of insignia, masks, or costumes associated with
the commercial establishment.
   IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign located at or near the entrance to an
industrial, business or residential development, which is necessary for the
safety or convenience of motorists and which is therefore erected primarily in
the public interest.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign with an artificial light source incorporated
internally or externally for the purpose of illuminating the sign.
   MARQUEE SIGN. A sign attached to or supported by a permanent roof-like
structure or canopy of rigid materials supported by and extending from the main
facade of a building.
   MENU BOARD. A permanent changeable copy sign associated with restaurants
with drive-through windows, car washes, or other businesses with drive-up
services.
   NAME PLATE. A permanent, fixed-copy, on-premise sign placed on the front of
a structure or mounted in the front lawn of a property.
   NON-COMMERCIAL MESSAGE. A message intended to direct attention to a
political candidate, election issue, political, social, religious, community or
public service issue or idea, aim, viewpoint, aspiration or purpose and not
intended to produce any commercial benefit or tend to encourage a commercial
transaction.
   NON-COMMERCIAL SIGN. A sign containing a non- commercial message. Any sign
that can be displayed under the provisions of this chapter may contain a non-
commercial message.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN. A sign which was erected legally, but no longer complies
with subsequently enacted sign restrictions and regulations.
   OBSCENE SIGN. A sign which contains words or pictures in which the dominant
theme, taken as a whole and according to contemporary community standards,
appeals to the prurient interest, depicts sexual conduct in a patently
offensive way, and lacks serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific
value.
   OFF-PREMISE SIGN. A commercial sign advertising any business, profession,
product, activity, commodity, or service which is not offered, sold,
manufactured or furnished upon the premise(s) where such sign is located. A
billboard is a type of off-premise sign.
   ON-PREMISE SIGN. A commercial sign advertising any business, profession,
product, activity, commodity, or service which is offered, sold, manufactured
or furnished upon the premise(s) where such sign is located.
   PERMANENT SIGN. Any sign that is securely attached or installed upon a
building, structure, or the ground, constructed of durable materials, and is
intended to exist for the duration of time that the use or occupant is located
on the premises.
   PENNANT. Any sign of light-weight plastic, fabric, or other similar
material, whether or not containing a message of any kind, which is suspended
from a rope, wire, or string, usually in a series, and which is designed to
move in the wind. Flags of any government or political subdivision shall not be
considered pennants.
   POLE SIGN. Any freestanding sign which has its supportive structure(s)
anchored in the ground and which has a sign face elevated above ground level.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other
permanent structure and which is designed or constructed in such a manner that
it can easily be moved or relocated in its entirety without involving any
structural or support changes and without significant expense.
   PROJECTING SIGN A type of wall sign affixed to any building or part thereof,
or structure, extending beyond the building wall or parts thereof, or
structure, more than what is necessary for the construction and support of that
wall sign.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN. A temporary sign posted on property that is actively
marketed for sale or lease.
   ROOF SIGN. A sign erected on or extending above the top of a flat roof
parapet, or above the eave of a pitched roof, but not including a sign totally
within the vertical elevations of the lower slope of a mansard or gambrel roof.
   ROTATING SIGN. A sign in which the sign itself or any portion of the sign
moves in a revolving or similar manner.
   SANDWICH BOARD. A type of changeable copy portable sign with an "A-frame"
"T-frame" base, which is displayed only during business hours.
   SEASONAL OR HOLIDAY DISPLAY. Any temporary display used for a holiday and
installed for a short, limited period of time.
   SHOPPING CENTER. A commercial development under unified control consisting
of four or more separate commercial establishments sharing a common building,
or which are in separate buildings that share a common entranceway or parking
area.
   SIGN. Any object, device, display, or structure, or part thereof, legible
from a public place, a public  right-of-way, any parking area or right-of-way
open to use by the general public, which is designed and used to attract
attention to an institution, organization, business, product, service, event,
or location. Signs do not include:
      (1)   The flag or insignia of any nation, state, city or other political
unit and/or any organization. Such flags may contain any non-commercial
message, but shall contain no commercial message other than the name and/or
symbol of an entity.
      (2)   Tablets, grave markers, headstones, statuary or remembrances of
persons or events that do not constitute a sign as defined in this chapter.
      (3)   Seasonal or holiday displays.
      (4)   Works of art.
   SIGN FACE. The surface of the sign upon, against or through which the
message of the sign is exhibited.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. The supports, uprights, bracing or framework for signs.
   SITE SIGN. A temporary sign located on any parcel during the time of active
construction for which a building permit has been issued but on which
construction related to such building permit is incomplete.
   SPORTS FACILITY SPONSORSHIP SIGN. A sign that is located at a ballfield,
soccer field, hockey rink, outdoor basketball court, tennis court, or other
similar sports facility used by the public for athletic activities, and that
identifies a sponsor in recognition of the sponsor's financial support for the
sports facility and sports programs at the facility.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign which is designed to be used only for a limited
period of time, as regulated in this chapter, and is not, nor intended to be,
permanently attached to a building, structure or the ground.
   UNDER-CANOPY SIGN. A sign suspended beneath a canopy, ceiling, roof or
marquee, and intended to be viewed primarily by pedestrians under, or nearly
under, such canopy, ceiling, roof or marquee, not including a wall sign as
defined below.
   WALL SIGN. Any sign painted on, attached to or erected against the wall of a
building or structure, with the exposed face of the sign in a plane parallel to
the plane of  said wall, and not extending more than what is necessary for the
construction and support of that wall sign.
   WINDOW SIGN. A permanent or temporary commercial sign affixed to a window,
including windows within doors or any sign sufficiently near the inside of a
window as to make such sign clearly and/or intentionally visible, and easily
read, by motorists or pedestrians outside the building for the specific purpose
of directing attention to a business, profession, service, product or activity
sold or offered upon the premises where such sign is located.
   WORK OF ART. Any item expressing creative skill or imagination in a visual
form, such as a painting or sculpture, which is intended to beautify or provide
an aesthetic influence to a public area or area which is visible from the
public realm and which in no way identifies or specifically relates to a
commercial business, product or service.
   YARD SIGN. A temporary sign, which is mounted on a stake or a frame
structure (often made from wire) that includes one or more stakes.
(Ord. 3752, passed 7-11-23)
§ 153.06 COMPUTATIONS.
   The following rules shall apply to the computation of sign area and sign
height:
   (A)   Determining sign area and dimensions.
      (1)   For a sign which is framed, outlined, painted or otherwise prepared
and intended to provide a background for a sign display, the area and
dimensions shall include the entire portion within such background or frame.
      (2)   For a sign comprised of individual letters, figures or elements on
a wall or similar surface of the building or structure, or an irregularly
shaped freestanding sign, the area and dimensions of the sign shall encompass a
regular geometric shape (rectangle, circle or triangle), or a combination of
regular geometric shapes, which form, or approximate, the perimeter of all
elements in the display. When separate elements are organized to form a single
sign, but are separated by open space, the sign area and dimensions shall be
calculated by determining the geometric form, or combination of forms, which
comprises all of the display areas, including the space between different
elements.
      (3)   The sign area shall include the frame, if any, but shall not
include:
         (a)   A pole or other structural support unless such pole or
structural support is illuminated or otherwise so designed to constitute a
display device, or a part of a display device.
         (b)   Architectural features that are either part of the building or
part of a freestanding structure, and not an integral part of the sign, and
which may consist of landscaping, building or structural forms complementing
the site in general.
      (4)   The area of a sign with more than one face shall be computed by
adding together the area of all sign faces visible from any one point. When two
identical sign faces are placed back to back so that both faces cannot be
viewed from any point at the same time, and are part of the same sign
structure, the sign area shall be computed as the measurement of one of the two
faces.
      (5)   In the event of a dispute in determining the area or dimensions of
any sign, the opinion of the city may be appealed to the Board of Zoning
Appeals, as provided in §
153.18.
   (B)   Determining sign height.
      (1)   As illustrated in Appendix B, the height of a freestanding sign
shall be determined by measuring the vertical distance to the highest point of
a sign or its structure from the elevation of the ground directly beneath the
sign. In cases where the site is elevated above or below an adjacent roadway on
natural topography, the sign height shall be determined by measuring the
vertical distance from the centerline ground elevation point of the sign or its
structure to the highest point of the sign or its structure. In cases where
signs are located on a manmade earthen mound or similar man-made ground
formation, the sign height shall be determined by measuring the vertical
distance from the nearest edge of adjacent street pavement or the upper surface
of the nearest street curb to the highest point of a sign or its structure.
      (2)   Clearance for freestanding and projecting signs shall be measured
as the smallest vertical distance between finished grade and the lowest point
of the sign, including any framework or other embellishments.
   (C)   Determining building frontages and frontage lengths.
      (1)   Primary and secondary frontage. As illustrated in Appendix C, the
frontage of any building or site shall include the elevation(s) facing a public
street, facing a primary parking area for the building or tenants, or
containing the public entrance(s) to the building or building units.
         (a)   For multi-tenant buildings, the portion of such building that is
owned, or leased by a single tenant, shall be considered a building unit.
         (b)   The primary frontage shall be considered the portion of any
frontage containing the primary public entrance(s) to the building or building
units.
         (c)   The secondary frontage shall include frontages containing
secondary public entrances to the building or building units, and all walls
facing a public street or primary parking area not designated as the primary
frontage by division (C)(1)(a) of this section.
      (2)   Length of frontage.
         (a)   For measurement purposes, the length of any primary or secondary
frontage as defined in division (C)(1) of this section and illustrated in
Appendix C, shall be the sum of all wall lengths parallel, or nearly parallel,
to such frontage.
         (b)   For buildings with two or more frontages, the length and
allowable sign area shall be calculated separately for each such frontage.
         (c)   The building frontage for a building unit shall be measured from
the centerline of the party walls defining the building unit.
(Ord. 3752, passed 7-11-23)
§ 153.07 SCOPE.
   Every sign, including signs that do not require a permit, shall be developed
and maintained in accordance with the standards prescribed herein unless
specifically modified by another section of this chapter. In the event certain
provisions conflict and cannot be reconciled, the more stringent shall apply.
(Ord. 3752, passed 7-11-23)
§ 153.08 MAXIMUM SIGN AREA PERMITTED.
   The maximum permitted area for all signs shall conform to Appendix D,
Maximum Sign Dimensions, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 3752, passed 7-11-23) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.09 SUPPLEMENTAL REQUIREMENTS FOR WALL SIGNS.
   In addition to the provisions of Appendix D, and any subsequent requirements
in §§
153.10 through
153.15, the following provisions for wall signs shall also apply:
   (A)   The maximum permitted area for all identification wall signs shall
include all signs conforming to the definitions of identification signs and
wall signs, including awning, canopy and marquee signs, and projecting signs
where permitted, except as exempted in accordance with division (D) of this
section.
   (B)   Bonus areas permitted.
      (1)   Secondary frontage. For buildings with secondary frontage(s) as set
forth in §
153.06(C) and illustrated in Appendix C, the total permitted area of all
identification wall signs for each such secondary frontage may be increased as
follows:
         (a)   The additional permitted sign area shall not exceed 50% of the
total sign area that would otherwise be permitted for the secondary frontage if
it had qualified as the primary frontage under § 153.06(C).
         (b)   The additional permitted sign area for a secondary frontage
facing a public street which is parallel to a primary frontage street shall not
exceed 100% of the total sign area that would otherwise be permitted for the
secondary frontage if it had qualified as the primary frontage under §
153.06(C).
         (c)   Any additional sign area permitted under this division shall
only be utilized on the secondary frontage elevation(s).
         (d)   At the owner's discretion, some or all of the sign area
permitted for the primary frontage may be transferred to a secondary frontage,
provided that the resulting total area on the secondary frontage does not
exceed the maximum area which would have been permitted on that elevation if it
had qualified as the primary frontage.
      (2)   Large building setbacks. Where a building frontage exceeds a
setback of 200 feet from a facing public street or interstate highway, the
total area of all identification wall signs permitted for that frontage may be
increased by one-half square foot of sign area per lineal foot of such
frontage.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other requirement of this chapter, no
individual wall sign shall exceed 200 square feet.
   (C)   Minimum clearance. Under-canopy, projecting, awning, and marquee signs
shall have a minimum clearance of 14 feet over any vehicular use area and eight
and one-half feet over any pedestrian use area.
   (D)   Projecting signs. Where permitted, the area of all such signs shall be
included in the total allowable sign area for all wall signs, and shall
complement the building design and purposes of this chapter. In no instance
shall any such sign be permitted to project over any public or private street,
and shall comply with the clearance requirements set forth in §
153.06(B)(2). Projecting signs shall be attached to the building wall at an
angle of 90 degrees and shall not mask or interrupt a major architectural
feature such as, but not limited to, doors, windows, or trim.
   (E)   Window signs. Window signs shall be attached to the interior of the
window. The combined areas of all permanent and temporary window signs for any
window shall not exceed 50% of the total window area. Window signs shall not be
included in the calculation of total wall sign area.
(Ord. 3752, passed 7-11-23) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.10 MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF FREESTANDING SIGNS.
   The maximum height of any sign shall conform to
Appendix D, Maximum Sign Dimensions, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter.
(Ord. 3752, passed 7-11-23) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.11 SUPPLEMENTAL REQUIREMENTS FOR FREESTANDING SIGNS.
   In addition to the provisions of Appendix D regarding maximum area and
height, and any subsequent requirements in §§
153.10 through
153.15, the following provisions for freestanding signs shall also apply:
   (A)   Identification signs located at a residential development.
      (1)   Such signs shall be located no closer than ten feet from the street
right-of-way line, and no closer than 25 feet from any side lot line.
      (2)   Single or two-family residential use.
         (a)   Permanent freestanding signs shall be prohibited on any
individual residential lot.
         (b)   A permanent freestanding sign may be permitted on a reserve
parcel or other lands owned in common by residents living within a specific
neighborhood, a neighborhood group or association for the purpose of
identifying their neighborhood, as follows:
            1.   The freestanding identification sign must be located at the
entrance to a neighborhood fronting on a public street.
            2.   A maximum of one, single-face sign shall be permitted at each
neighborhood entrance.
            3.   The sign face area shall not exceed the maximum sign face area
and height permitted by
Appendix D.
            4.   The sign shall be mounted onto a brick, stone, or keystone
wall; wood or wrought iron fence; or earthen mound and the entire area shall be
landscaped.
            5.   The sign may be illuminated by ground-mounted lighting only.
      (3)   Multi-family residential use.
         (a)   Only one sign shall be permitted on each premise. However, the
two sign faces of a freestanding sign may be split into two signs and situated
on both sides of the main entrance to a multi-family development providing:
            1.   Each sign shall have only one sign face.
            2.   The sign face area shall not exceed the maximum sign face area
and height permitted by
Appendix D.
         (b)   The sign shall be mounted onto a brick, stone, or keystone wall;
wood or wrought iron fence; or earthen mound and the entire area shall be
landscaped.
         (c)   The sign may be illuminated by ground-mounted lighting only.
   (B)   Identification signs located at a non-residential development. Any
freestanding business, office or other commercial or manufacturing
identification sign shall also comply with all of the following:
      (1)   Maximum number. One freestanding sign shall be permitted per
project or development, except as provided for corner lots, large lots, and
lots facing an interstate highway (I-75), as provided in divisions (B)(5), (B)
(6) and (B)(7) of this section.
      (2)   Setbacks from street right-of-way.
         (a)   A minimum of ten feet, except as provided in division (B)(2)(c)
of this section.
         (b)   Minimum setbacks, if any, shall be determined as part of the
approval process for any development within the OD, PUD, and CC Districts.
         (c)   Signs may not be located within the public right-of-way.
      (3)   Visibility. No freestanding sign shall be placed in a manner that
would obstruct any sight line necessary to protect the safety of any vehicular
or pedestrian traffic.
      (4)   Multi-tenant facilities.
         (a)   When a freestanding sign is erected on a site that has more than
one tenant, it is the property owner's responsibility to determine the portion
of the total allowable sign area that will be devoted to various purposes for
the development, the building, anchor tenant(s), all tenants, or some
combination thereof.
         (b)   When a new multi-tenant development is initially proposed, city
approval of a special sign program may be requested in accordance with §
153.18(C), to which all future tenants must comply.
      (5)   Additional sign, area, and height for corner lots. One additional
freestanding sign shall be permitted for a corner lot only in compliance with
all of the following:
         (a)   The total frontage of both streets is not less than 300 feet;
         (b)   The area of each freestanding identification sign complies with
Appendix D, and the total area of both freestanding signs does not exceed 150%
of the maximum area permitted for a single sign;
         (c)   The second freestanding sign is located in a manner clearly
intended to provide identification along the secondary street;
         (d)   The total area of the two signs permitted above may be combined
into a single sign at the corner, with visibility from both streets, provided
that the area of no single freestanding sign face shall exceed the maximum area
permitted in §
153.08 and division (B)(5)(b) of this section, and provided that the maximum
height does not exceed 150% of the maximum height permitted in §
153.10.
      (6)   Additional signs, area and height for large lots. The area, height
and number of freestanding signs on large lots may be increased according to
the following:
         (a)   The allowable area of any freestanding sign face may be
increased by five square feet of area for every 20 lineal feet of lot frontage
greater than 200 lineal feet.
         (b)   The allowable area pursuant to this section may be distributed
among more than one freestanding sign, provided that each such sign is no less
than 250 lineal feet from any other such sign.
         (c)   Notwithstanding any provision of this section, the area of any
freestanding sign face shall not exceed 150 square feet.
         (d)   The total area of the multiple signs permitted above may be
combined into a single sign, provided that the area of no single freestanding
sign face shall exceed the maximum area permitted in §
153.08 and division (B)(6)(a) and (B)(6)(c) of this section, and provided the
maximum height does not exceed 150% of the maximum height permitted in §
153.10.
      (7)   Additional sign and height for sites adjacent to I-75.
Notwithstanding any other requirement of this chapter, one additional
freestanding sign shall be permitted for lots with adjacent frontage facing an
interstate highway (I-75), provided such sign complies with all of the
following:
         (a)   The total frontage facing the highway is not less than 200 feet.
         (b)   The area of such sign does not exceed 150 square feet.
         (c)   The height of such sign does not exceed 25 feet.
         (d)   Such sign is located in a manner clearly intended to provide
identification along the highway.
      (8)   Identification signs for multiple occupancy complexes or shopping
centers. One freestanding sign shall be permitted in lieu of individual
freestanding signs for each individual occupant. A special sign program may be
requested in accordance with §
153.18(C).
      (9)   Drive-up and drive-in menu board signs.
         (a)   Drive-up menu board signs located immediately adjacent to the
drive-up lane are permitted as follows:
            1.   Such signs shall not exceed seven feet in height.
            2.   The total area of all such signs shall not exceed 60 square
feet.
            3.   All such signs shall conform to the landscaping requirements
for freestanding signs as specified in §
153.11(D).
         (b)   One drive-in menu board sign shall be permitted per drive-in
stall and outdoor patio area, not to exceed eight square feet in area.
      (10)   A property owner may exchange the permitted freestanding sign for
a wall sign(s) provided:
         (a)   The sign area for this wall sign shall not exceed the sign face
area of the freestanding sign that is permitted for the property by this
chapter.
         (b)   The wall sign that is exchanged for a freestanding sign shall be
located on a building wall that is not used to generate permitted wall signage
for the property.
         (c)   The building wall used to locate this wall sign shall not
primarily face towards an abutting residential use.
         (d)   No other freestanding sign shall be permitted on the property
unless otherwise permitted by this chapter.
      (11)   Sites which have a one-way pattern of circulation and take access
from a non-residential street are permitted the following additional signage:
         (a)   Each access point shall be permitted a single sign located no
further than ten feet from the edge of pavement of such access point.
         (b)   Such signs shall be limited to four square feet in sign area and
three feet in sign height.
         (c)   Such signs shall not contain any changeable copy.
      (12)   All projects regulated by Zoning Code §
154.17.01, Architectural Design Standards, shall comply with the freestanding
sign design requirements of § 154.17.01(F)(2).
      (13)   No posts, columns, or other vertical structures or supports shall
be visible on freestanding signs measuring eight feet or less in height, except
when necessary to protect the public health, safety and welfare as determined
by the city.
   (C)   Changeable copy signs. Permanent changeable copy signs shall only be
permitted in compliance with the following:
      (1)   The area of changeable copy for permanent signs shall not exceed
50% of the total area of the sign face.
      (2)   A change in copy for signs in the following zoning districts shall
only be permitted on a case by case basis: RE Residential Estate District, R-
1 Single-Family Residential District, R-2 Single-Family Residential District,
R-3 Single-Family Residential District, R-4 Multiple-Family Residential
District, R-5 Multiple-Family Residential District, R-PUD Residential Planned
Unit Development District, R-MHP Mobile Home Park District, H Heritage
District, A Agricultural District, and LD Limited Development District.
However, electronic changeable copy signs with a permanent black background and
single-color copy (text only) in compliance with this chapter shall be
permitted for public or private non-profit institutional uses including, but
not limited to schools, libraries, government, hospitals, and places of
worship.
      (3)   Electronic changeable copy signs:
         (a)   The interval for a change in electronic copy shall not be less
than five seconds. The change sequence must be accomplished by means of
instantaneous repixalization.
         (b)   No portion of the image may constitute an animated or flashing
sign as defined in §
153.05.
         (c)   All electronic changeable copy signs shall comply with the
illumination requirements of §
153.16.
         (d)   The leading edge of an electronic changeable copy sign must be a
minimum distance of 35 feet from other electronic changeable copy signs.
         (e)   Audio speakers which project sound which is audible beyond the
premises are prohibited.
         (f)   There shall be no more than two electronic changeable copy signs
for each development.
         (g)   Any malfunctioning electronic sign shall be turned off or
display a blank screen until repaired.
         (h)   Electronic changeable copy signs can only be on-premise signs.
Off-premise signs are prohibited.
   (D)   Landscaping. A permanent freestanding sign shall be required to
provide a single continuous landscaped area to be installed and maintained
around the base of the sign in accordance with the following standards, as
illustrated in the general design guideline provided in Appendix E and provided
below:
      (1)   The minimum landscaped area shall be equal to or exceed the total
area of the sign face, and shall include all points where the sign structural
supports attach to the ground.
      (2)   The landscaped area shall include two or more of the following
plant materials, selected to provide a variety of color, heights, hardiness,
foliage/flowering characteristics, and massing:
         (a)   Evergreen or deciduous shrubs.
         (b)   Flowering perennial (#1 container).
         (c)   Groundcover or seasonal annuals.
         (d)   Ornamental trees or grasses.
      (3)   All landscaping shall be permanently located and properly
maintained with dead vegetation replaced as soon as weather permits. The use of
concrete, asphalt or any other any paved surface inside the required landscaped
area is prohibited.
(Ord. 3752, passed 7-11-23) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.12 SPORTS FACILITY SPONSORSHIP SIGNS.
   Sports facility sponsorship signs are permitted in all zoning districts as
accessory uses at the following places: ballfield, soccer field, hockey rink,
outdoor basketball court, tennis court, or other similar sports facility used
by the public for athletic activities. Sports facility sponsorship signs are
subject to the following required standards:
   (A)   Signs shall be oriented toward the field of play.
   (B)   Signs shall not exceed 24 square feet on one sign face.
   (C)   Signs shall not be illuminated except by the regular sports facility
lighting during hours of use of the sports facility.
   (D)   Signs shall be maintained in good condition.
(Ord. 3752, passed 7-11-23) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.13 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   (A)   Temporary signs shall comply with all applicable requirements of this
chapter unless specified otherwise, and shall also comply with the following
requirements:
      (1)   Temporary signs shall meet all height, size, and setback
requirements as specified in this chapter, but may be used to exceed the
maximum allowable message area for a parcel or individual occupant.
      (2)   Temporary non-commercial signs.
         (a)   Temporary signs bearing a non- commercial message do not require
a permit.
         (b)   Temporary freestanding signs bearing a non-commercial message
shall be located no closer than ten feet from a public right-of-way or a side
lot line.
         (c)   Temporary signs bearing a non- commercial message shall meet the
size requirements in Appendix D of this chapter.
      (3)   Temporary commercial signs.
         (a)   A maximum of one temporary commercial freestanding or wall sign
shall be permitted per occupant per public street frontage at any one time,
except as otherwise provided in this chapter. On property with multiple-
occupancy, a maximum of two temporary commercial freestanding signs shall be
permitted per public street frontage at any one time, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter. Signs shall be separated by at least 30 linear feet.
         (b)   Temporary signs bearing a commercial message shall meet the size
requirements in Appendix D of this chapter.
         (c)   Permit rights may be transferred by one occupant to another
occupant located on the same property provided that written authorization is
granted by the occupant transferring its permit rights. Permit rights may not
be transferred from a vacant space, nor between different addresses for the
same occupant.
         (d)   Temporary commercial signs may be displayed for a maximum of 30
days within any 60 day period. The 30 days may be utilized in smaller
increments of time during the 60 day period with prior approval of a display
schedule by the city. Unused days within one permit period may not be
transferred to another permit period. Permit fees will be calculated as the
pro-rated percentage of the 30-day permit fee; however, the full refundable
deposit fee shall be required with each permit.
         (e)   Temporary commercial signs shall not be illuminated.
         (f)   The minimum setback for freestanding temporary commercial signs
shall be ten feet from the public right-of-way.
         (g)   Temporary commercial signs with changeable copy shall also
comply with the requirements of §
153.11(C).
         (h)   Sign supports shall consist of wood, metal, or other similar
fabricated, durable material.
         (i)   Permits for temporary commercial signs shall require an
application fee plus a refundable deposit as required by Chapter 37: General
Fee Schedule, which shall be refunded if the temporary sign is removed within
five days of the expiration date of the permit. Any applicant not removing the
temporary commercial sign within this time period shall forfeit the deposit and
the temporary sign shall become an unlawful sign.
         (j)   Temporary commercial signs shall be legible, neat, and
professional in appearance.
   (B)   Site signs. A site sign shall be permitted only in compliance with the
following:
      (1)   There shall be not more than one site sign per residential
subdivision, planned residential development, multi-family project or lot
proposed for a non-residential development.
      (2)   The site sign shall be an accessory use to a lawful temporary
activity of land development.
      (3)   The site sign shall be erected and maintained on a lot only during
the period of time that the building project is under construction. A site sign
shall be removed within 14 days of completion of the project or within two days
of the erection of a permanent identification sign, whichever comes first.
   (C)   Temporary signs in residential districts. Temporary signs are
permitted in any residential district, subject to the additional following
provisions:
      (1)   No such sign shall exceed the size and height requirements provided
in
Appendix D.
      (2)   A temporary commercial sign may be displayed for a duration not to
exceed 30 days, after which time the sign shall be removed.
      (3)   Temporary freestanding signs shall be located no closer than ten
feet from a public right-of-way or a side lot line.
      (4)   Temporary real estate signs shall be permitted as provided in §
153.13(E).
      (5)   Temporary signs located at single-family residences are exempt from
permit requirements as provided in §
153.18.
      (6)   Temporary signs permitted in residential districts shall comply
with the requirements of division (A) of this section, unless specified
otherwise in this section.
   (D)   Temporary signs in non-residential districts. Temporary signs are
permitted as provided in §§
153.08 and
153.10, subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   Temporary window signs.
         (a)   The combined areas of all permanent and temporary window signs
for any window shall not exceed 50% of the total window area.
         (b)   Temporary window signs are exempt from permit requirements as
provided in §
153.18.
      (2)   Sandwich boards or bandit signs. Sandwich boards or bandit signs
shall be permitted in addition to signage otherwise permitted in this chapter
as follows:
         (a)   Sandwich boards or bandit signs may only be displayed by
commercial businesses located within the OD Olde Downtown District, the CC City
Center District, the B-1 Convenience Commercial District, and the B-2 General
Commercial District.
         (b)   Sandwich boards or bandit signs shall only be displayed during
the operating hours of the business to which it pertains.
         (c)   A maximum of one sandwich board or bandit sign per business per
public street frontage shall be permitted on private property at any one time,
except within vehicular use areas or as otherwise restricted by this section.
For a business fronting directly onto a public sidewalk, a sandwich board or
bandit sign may be placed on the sidewalk provided that it does not impede
pedestrian access or pose a safety concern. Bandit signs shall not be placed
within any public right-of-way, except as provided herein, nor posted on trees,
utility poles, public benches, public property, or other objects.
         (d)   Sandwich boards shall not exceed six square feet per sign face
or 12 square feet in sign area if two-sided, and shall not exceed three feet in
height. Bandit signs shall not exceed four square feet per sign face or eight
square feet in sign area if two-sided, and shall not exceed three feet in
height.
         (e)   Illuminated or electronic sandwich boards or bandit signs are
prohibited. Copy may only be changed manually.
         (f)   Sandwich boards and bandit signs as provided herein are exempt
from permit requirements as provided in §
153.18.
         (g)   The requirements of §
153.13(A) shall not apply to sandwich boards and bandit signs. However, all
other provisions of this chapter shall apply unless specified otherwise above.
      (3)   Temporary signs permitted in non- residential districts shall
comply with the requirements of division (A) of this section, unless specified
otherwise in this section.
   (E)   Temporary real estate signs. One temporary real estate sign per lot
frontage shall be permitted which complies with the following requirements:
      (1)   Temporary real estate signs shall comply with the maximum area and
height requirements for temporary signs provided in §§
153.08 and
153.10. However, for lots with frontage facing an interstate highway (I-75),
one temporary freestanding real estate sign shall be permitted up to a maximum
of 32 square feet in area and a maximum of 12 feet in height, to be placed
adjacent to the interstate highway frontage.
      (2)   The sign shall be either a freestanding or wall sign. Banners shall
not be permitted to be used as temporary real estate signs. However, one
temporary real estate banner shall be permitted on a building face fronting
directly on Interstate Highway 75 (I-75) right-of-way which meets the area
requirements for permanent wall signs and all other pertinent requirements of
this chapter.
      (3)   A sign permit shall not be required.
      (4)   Temporary real estate signs are not subject to time restrictions
specified in §
153.13(A)(3)(d), but must be removed immediately upon the sale, lease, or
rental of the property or space to which it pertains.
      (5)   Temporary real estate signs shall comply with the requirements of
division (A) of this section, unless specified otherwise in this division.
   (F)   Temporary sign for grand opening. One temporary sign is permitted per
public street frontage for no more than seven days prior to nor more than 14
days following the first day a new establishment or an existing establishment
with new ownership is open to the public. These signs shall be in addition to
other signage permitted in this chapter, and shall meet all height, size,
setback, and other temporary sign requirements as specified in this chapter,
but shall not require a permit.
(Ord. 3752, passed 7-11-23) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.14 SIGNS EXEMPT OR PARTIALLY EXEMPT FROM REGULATION.
   The following signs shall be exempt from regulation under this chapter.
   (A)   Any sign located entirely inside a building that is not legible from
the public right-of-way or from property other than the property on which the
sign is located.
   (B)   Government signs.
   (C)   Signs on a truck, bus, trailer or other vehicle while such vehicle is
operated in the normal course of a business which is not primarily the display
of such signs.
   (D)   Cornerstones containing no advertising message incorporated into the
building design as an architectural feature.
   (E)   Corporate limit signs.
   (F)   The following signs may be erected or constructed without a permit,
but may be subject to additional regulations under this chapter. Where a sign
is erected pursuant to a federal or state statute or a court order, the sign
may exceed the size standards of this chapter or otherwise deviate from the
standards set forth in this chapter to the extent that the statute or court
order expressly requires the larger size or other deviation. In all other
respects, such signs shall conform to the standards of this chapter:
      (1)   Signs installed by employees or officials of a local, state or
federal agency in the course of their governmental duties and bearing no
commercial message;
      (2)   Signs required by an order of a court of competent jurisdiction;
      (3)   Signs installed by a transit company with a franchise or other
right to operate in the city where such signs are installed along its routes
and bear no commercial message.
      (4)   Yard signs bearing no commercial message.
(Ord. 3752, passed 7-11-23)
§ 153.15 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   All signs not expressly permitted in this chapter or exempt from regulation
pursuant to §
153.14, are prohibited in the city. Such signs include but are not limited to
the following:
   (A)   Abandoned signs.
   (B)   Animated, flashing, rotating signs and festoons, inflatable signs,
tethered balloons, pennants, searchlights, streamers, exposed light bulbs,
strings of lights, used other than as a minor decorative accent to a building
or property, and any clearly similar features, except those specifically exempt
from regulation in §
153.14, or temporary special event signs or banner signs permitted in §
153.13 and the West Carrollton Banner Policy.
   (C)   Off-premise signs, including but not limited to billboards.
   (D)   Roof signs.
   (E)   Signs attached to or placed on a vehicle, including, but not limited
to, automobiles, trucks, boats, campers, and trailers, which is parked in a
manner to convey visible information to or attract the visual attention of a
person in a public right-of-way for the purposes of providing advertisement for
products or services or directing people to a business or activity, in addition
to legally permitted signage for the site. This restriction shall not apply to
buses or other forms of public transportation, taxicabs, or to vehicles with
permanently applied vehicle graphics such as vinyl decals, lettering, or wraps
that are displayed within the normal unaltered lines of the vehicle so long as
the vehicle is parked entirely within a legal parking space and is engaged in
the usual business of the owner, and not merely, mainly, or primarily used to
display advertising.
   (F)   Signs that would cause confusion because of their resemblance to
highway traffic control or direction signals.
   (G)   Merchandise, equipment, products, vehicles or other items which are
not available for purchase, but are intended to attract attention, or for
identification or advertising purposes.
   (H)   Signs located on trees, utility poles, public benches, traffic control
devices, bus shelters, trash receptacles, mechanical equipment, fence,
permanent sign, or any other form of public property or unapproved supporting
structure; or which obstruct any sight line necessary to protect the safety of
any vehicular or pedestrian traffic; or within any public right-of-way. The
required sight distance shall be as specified in the current edition of the
State of Ohio Department of Transportation Location and Design Manual, Volume
1, Roadway Design Section 201.
   (I)   Signs located on any accessory structure, as defined in the Zoning
Code.
   (J)   Hand-held signs in or on the public right-of-way or in a manner
visible from the public right-of-way. This provision is directed toward such
displays intended to draw attention to a commercial message or for a commercial
purpose, and is not intended to limit such displays by persons participating in
demonstrations, political rallies, displaying non-commercial messages or
otherwise exercising their valid First Amendment rights.
   (K)   Obscene signs; or signs that contain advertising matter which is
untruthful or that advertise illegal activity.
   (L)   Attention-attracting devices.
   (M)   Deteriorated signs.
   (N)   Pole signs.
   (O)   Any sign requiring a permit in accordance with this chapter and not
having said permit approved and issued by the city.
(Ord. 3752, passed 7-11-23) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.16 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS FOR SIGNS.
   In addition to ensuring compliance with the numerical standards and other
requirements of this chapter, signs shall comply with the following minimum
construction standards:
   (A)   Illuminated signs. Illuminated signs shall be permitted only in
compliance with all of the following provisions:
      (1)   Residential districts and uses.
         (a)   No such sign shall be internally illuminated except as provided
in §
153.11(C)(2).
         (b)   The brightness or intensity of any external illumination shall
be limited to what is necessary to identify the use's location.
         (c)   The illumination shall comply with all requirements provided in
division (A)(2) of this section.
      (2)   All other districts and uses. Either internal or external
illumination shall be permitted, only in accordance with all of the following:
         (a)   Light sources shall be shielded from all adjacent buildings and
streets.
         (b)   Lights shall not be of such brightness as to cause glare that is
hazardous to pedestrians or motorists, or to cause reasonable objection from
adjacent residential districts.
         (c)   No exposed incandescent or fluorescent lamp shall be permitted.
         (d)   At no time shall a sign exceed an illumination level of three-
tenths (0.3) footcandles above the ambient light illumination level, as
measured in conformance with the following process:
            1.   The illumination level of a sign shall be measured with an
illuminance meter set to measure footcandles accurate to at least two decimals.
            2.   Light measurements shall be taken with the footcandle meter
aimed directly at the sign message face, or at the area of the sign emitting
the brightest light if that area is not the sign message face, at a distance
from the sign being measured as specified in Appendix F.
            3.   An ambient light measurement shall be taken using a footcandle
meter at some point between the period of time between 30 minutes past sunset
and 30 minutes before sunrise, with the sign turned off to a black screen.
            4.   Immediately following the ambient light measurement taken in
the manner required by this division, an operating sign light measurement shall
be taken with the sign turned on to full white copy for a full color-capable
sign or a solid message for a single-color sign.
            5.   The illumination level of a sign conforms with the
illumination requirements of this division if the difference between the
ambient light measurement and the operating sign light measurement is three-
tenths (0.3) footcandles or less.
         (e)   All signs utilizing light-emitting diodes (LED) or other light-
emitting technologies shall be equipped with a sensor or other device that
automatically determines the ambient illumination level and shall be programmed
to automatically dim according to ambient light conditions to meet the
illumination requirements articulated above. The illumination level must be
capable of being both remotely and manually adjusted.
         (f)   If necessary, the city may seek assistance from a professional
lighting engineer to evaluate proposed illumination levels. The applicant shall
pay costs associated with such a review. In this case, compliance with
illumination requirements shall be determined following a site inspection that
includes field verification of illumination levels.
      (3)   Signs shall not be lighted to obstruct traffic control or any other
public informational signs. Signs visible from sight lines along streets shall
not contain symbols or words, or red and green lights that resemble highway
traffic signs or devices. These regulations shall not apply to permitted
holiday display lighting.
   (B)   Construction standards. The construction, erection, safety and
maintenance of all signs shall comply with the Ohio Building Code and all of
the following:
      (1)   Signs shall be structurally sound and located so as to pose no
reasonable threat to pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
      (2)   No sign shall be suspended by non-rigid attachments that would
allow the sign to move significantly because of wind.
      (3)   All permanent freestanding signs shall have self-supporting
structures erected on, or permanently attached to, concrete foundations.
      (4)   Sign supports shall consist of metal or other similar fabricated,
durable material. All commercial signs shall be legible, neat, and professional
in appearance.
      (5)   No signs shall be erected, constructed or maintained so as to
obstruct any fire escape, required exit, window, or door opening used as a
means of egress.
      (6)   Signs shall be located in such a way as to maintain horizontal and
vertical clearance of all overhead electrical conductors in accordance with
National Electrical Code specifications, depending on voltages concerned.
However, in no case shall a sign be installed closer than 12 inches
horizontally or vertically from any conductor or public utility guy wire.
      (7)   All signs shall be constructed in accordance with the Ohio Building
Code (OBC) and the National Electric Code (NEC).
(Ord. 3752, passed 7-11-23) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.17 MAINTENANCE.
   All signs shall be maintained in accordance with the following:
   (A)   Every sign, whether requiring a sign permit or not, shall be properly
maintained in a safe and presentable condition at all times and must not appear
to be in a deteriorated or dilapidated condition. Proper sign maintenance
includes, but is not limited to, the replacement of missing sign panels and
defective parts, painting, cleaning, and other acts required for maintenance of
the appearance and structural condition of the sign in order to comply with all
applicable code requirements.
   (B)   Each sign shall contain the name, address and telephone number of a
firm or person responsible for erecting the sign. Such information shall be
placed on the frame or other supports and large enough to be read by a person
standing on the ground, sidewalk or parking lot nearest the sign.
   (C)   If a sign is deemed by the Zoning Enforcement Officer to be in an
unsafe, deteriorated or dilapidated condition, the provisions of §
153.18(G) shall apply.
   (D)   In cases of emergency when there is a clear and present danger to the
public, the Zoning Enforcement Officer may cause the immediate removal of a
dangerous or defective sign.
   (E)   Whenever any sign, either conforming or nonconforming to these
regulations, is required to be removed for the purpose of repair, re-lettering
or repainting, the same may be done without a permit or any payment of fees
provided that all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   There is no alteration or remodeling to the structure or the
mounting of the sign itself;
      (2)   There is no enlargement or increase in any of the dimensions of the
sign or its structure;
      (3)   The sign is accessory to a legally permitted, conditional or
nonconforming use.
(Ord. 3752, passed 7-11-23) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.18 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Signs requiring a permit. All signs regulated by this chapter shall
require a permit prior to its construction or alteration, except as exempted in
division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Signs not requiring permit. The following signs shall be permitted
without first obtaining a sign permit, provided such sign is reviewed by the
Zoning Enforcement Officer or his/her designee, and is determined to be in full
compliance with the criteria set forth by all applicable regulations of this
chapter:
      (1)   Temporary signs located at single-family residences.
      (2)   Nameplates.
      (3)   Window signs.
      (4)   Real estate signs.
      (5)   Temporary signs bearing a non-commercial message.
      (6)   Signs conforming to the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices
and bearing no commercial message.
      (7)   Signs installed by employees or officials of a state or federal
agency in the course of their governmental duties and bearing no commercial
message.
      (8)   Signs installed by employees of the city or Montgomery County in
the course of their governmental duties and bearing no commercial message.
      (9)   Signs required by a state or federal statute or state or federal
court.
      (10)   Signs installed by public utilities in their rights-of-way or on
their facilities and bearing no commercial message other than such message is
necessary to identify the use.
      (11)   Signs installed by a transit company with a franchise or other
right to operate in the city and bearing no commercial message, where such
signs are installed along its routes and relate to schedules or other
information about the transit route.
      (12)   Signs in parks that relate to the use of one or more facilities
(including temporary uses by particular entities or individuals), provided that
such signs shall not be legible from any public right-of-way outside the park
and such signs shall bear no commercial message except one that relates to a
lawful commercial activity or lawful temporary use of a facility within the
park.
      (13)   Signs located inside stadiums, arenas, ball fields or other such
facilities. Where a facility is located adjacent to another such facility, such
as in an athletic complex, such signs shall be located completely within the
separate stadium, arena, ball field, or other such facility. Signs located
inside an outdoor facility shall be deemed not to be legible from such right-
of-way even if they may be legible from some locations outside the facility.
      (14)   Temporary identification signs for businesses, the access to which
has been restricted, altered or otherwise impacted by a public construction
project. Such signs, bearing no commercial message, may be placed off premise
but shall be subject to the provisions of §§
153.08 and
153.10.
      (15)   Sandwich boards or bandit signs, subject to the provisions of §
153.13(C).
      (16)   Temporary signs for a grand opening.
   (C)   Special sign programs.
      (1)   Diversity in the visual environment of the city requires some
flexibility in the regulation of signage. This section provides this
flexibility by permitting a property owner or his/her designee to submit a
special sign program for consideration of approval which may vary from the
regulations contained in this chapter. A special sign program is a creative
incentive for a unified visual statement that integrates the design of signage
with the design of the building on which it will be displayed and with the
surrounding area, resulting in a more visually appealing sign display and
improved community aesthetics. This special sign program shall supersede and
may be either more or less restrictive than the regulations contained in this
chapter.
      (2)   A property owner may submit a special sign program to the Planning
Commission that need not comply with some or all of the requirements of this
chapter. The special sign program shall contain a visual representation of the
proposed signage, including lettering, illumination, color, size, height,
placement, and location. A special sign program application shall include all
information required in § 153.18(D), and shall follow review procedures
specified in §
153.18(E)(3).
      (3)   The Planning Commission may approve a special sign program if the
signage visually represented in the program is:
         (a)   Consistent with the purposes of this chapter;
         (b)   Compatible with the theme, visual quality, and overall character
of the surrounding area; and
         (c)   Appropriately related in size, shape, materials, illumination,
and character to the function and architectural character of the building and/
or premises on which it will be displayed, and is compatible with existing
adjacent activities.
      (4)   A premises for which a special sign program has been approved by
the Planning Commission may only display signage that complies with the
approved special sign program, which shall supersede and replace the
regulations for signage in this chapter. Any subsequent application by a tenant
or other occupant of the site shall be reviewed and approved by the Zoning
Enforcement Officer only as consistent with the approved special sign program.
   (D)   Application requirements. An application for a sign permit shall be
made to the Zoning Enforcement Officer or his/her designee, and shall include
two copies; one depicting the actual colors of the proposed sign(s) and
building, and one letter-sized copy suitable for reproduction.
Specifically, the application shall include all of the following:
      (1)   Name, address and signature of the property owner or his/her legal
agent.
      (2)   Street address or location of the property proposed for the
requested sign(s).
      (3)   A complete site plan or photograph showing the location of the
sign, its relationship to the building, the locations, areas and dimensions of
all existing signs on the site, the adjacent parcels and the parking lots,
drives and sidewalks;
      (4)   Detailed drawings showing the design of the sign, including size,
content, style of lettering, logo and other graphic features, colors of the
applied lettering and background, and materials of the sign and the frame or
structure;
      (5)   Construction, erection and fastening details as applicable; and
      (6)   A permit fee for each sign application, in accordance with
Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule.
      (7)   A presentation of the proposed sign or signs which best illustrates
how it or they would be experienced by the public if approved and erected.
   (E)   Review and approval.
      (1)   The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall review a submitted application
to assure full compliance with the requirements of this chapter. The Zoning
Enforcement Officer shall determine whether a submitted application is in full
compliance with the requirements of this chapter within 14 days of its
submission.
         (a)   If the Zoning Enforcement Officer determines that the
application is not in full compliance, the application shall be denied by the
Building Inspection Division or shall be approved subject to the applicant's
compliance with the conditions required to bring the application into full
compliance. The Building Inspection Division shall return the application to
the applicant with the written decision described in §
153.18(F)(1), indicating the section or sections with which the application
does not comply.
         (b)   If the Zoning Enforcement Officer determines that the
application is in full compliance, he/she shall either:
            1.   Issue a permit for the erection, alteration, or relocation of
the sign within 30 days of receipt of such application; or
            2.   Submit such application to the Planning Commission for review
and approval, of any sign, or required signage program where the associated
building or project would otherwise require the review and approval of the
Planning Commission.
      (2)   Requests for a variance from any requirement of this chapter shall
be immediately forwarded to, reviewed by, and approved or disapproved by, the
Board of Zoning Appeals in accordance with the procedures set forth in §
154.06.01 of the Zoning Code. Variances related to this chapter shall be
limited to setback, area, and height requirements only, unless the Board finds
that requiring strict compliance with the provisions of this chapter may impose
a practical difficulty and that the granting of the variance from the
provisions of this chapter will not depreciate or damage neighboring property,
will not create a safety hazard and will not be contrary to the purposes of
this chapter.
      (3)   Any application requiring review by the Planning Commission shall
be received by the Zoning Enforcement Officer a minimum of 30 days prior to the
next scheduled regular or special meeting of the Planning Commission. If the
application is not received at least 30 days in advance, consideration of the
application shall be deferred to the following scheduled meeting of the
Planning Commission or, at the discretion of the Planning Commission, to a
special meeting.
         (a)   The Planning Commission shall review a submitted sign
application for full compliance with all applicable provisions of this chapter,
and shall approve, disapprove, or approve with suggested modifications which
would achieve full compliance.
         (b)   Upon the approval of an application by the Planning Commission,
the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall issue a sign permit within ten business
days of submission of a completed sign permit application, provided that the
proposed sign complies with all other applicable regulations.
         (c)   Upon the disapproval of an application by the Planning
Commission, the Planning Commission shall convey its reasons for disapproval to
the applicant, in writing, within five business days. Such notification may
also include suggested modifications, which, if incorporated by the applicant,
could bring the sign into compliance with this chapter. Applications so
modified may be resubmitted for review at the next scheduled Planning
Commission meeting.
      (4)   In any application where a matter of interpretation arises, the
more specific definition or higher standard shall prevail.
   (F)   Appeal.
      (1)   If a permit application is denied or approved with conditions, the
city shall prepare a written decision within ten days of its decision, stating
the reason or reasons for the action and describing the applicant's appeal
rights under this section and the applicant's rights to seek a variance under §
153.18(E)(2) and (E)(3) and serve it upon the applicant by certified mail.
      (2)   If the Zoning Enforcement Officer prepares a Notice of Violation
pursuant to §
153.18(G), the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall include within such Notice a
description of the recipient's appeal rights under this section.
      (3)   An applicant representing the recipient of a denial or conditional
approval of a permit application or a Notice of Violation, who wishes to appeal
from the denial or conditional approval of a permit application or from a
Notice of Violation, shall file a notice of the appeal with the Board of Zoning
Appeals within ten days following the applicant's receipt of the written
decision described in division (F)(1) of this section or the receipt of a
Notice of Zoning Violation described in division (F)(2) of this section.
      (4)   When the Board of Zoning Appeals receives a notice of appeal from
the denial or conditional approval of a permit application or from a Notice of
Violation, the Board shall hold a public hearing pursuant to §
154.05.06(C)(1) of the Zoning Code regarding administration appeals procedures.
      (5)   The Board shall issue a written decision to affirm, reverse or
modify the denial or conditional approval of a permit application or a Notice
of Violation within ten days following the public hearing and serve it upon the
applicant by certified mail.
      (6)   If the applicant elects to file an appeal from the Board's decision
in Common Pleas Court, the applicant must follow the procedure set forth in
R.C. Chapters 2505 and 2506 and Rules 3 and 4 of the Ohio Rules of Civil
Procedure.
   (G)   Removal of signs outside of the right-of-way by the Zoning Enforcement
Officer.
      (1)   The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall cause to be removed any
temporary or permanent sign that constitutes a public nuisance in that it
endangers the public safety, such as a sign which has been abandoned, is
illegal, is subject to removal pursuant to §
153.18(C)(3), is dangerous, is deteriorated, is dilapidated, or is materially,
electrically, or structurally defective. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall
also cause to be removed any sign, except a valid nonconforming sign, for which
no permit has been issued or a sign which is not in compliance with the permit
issued. Before removing any such sign, however, the Zoning Enforcement Officer
shall first prepare a notice which describes the sign and specifies the
violation involved. This notice shall require that the violation or violations
be corrected within 24 hours after proper service of the notice when the
violation or violations pertain to temporary commercial signs, or within 14
days after proper service of the notice when the violation or violations
pertain to permanent signs or temporary non-commercial signs. If this notice is
not complied with, the sign shall be removed immediately following the
applicable time frames by the Zoning Enforcement Officer in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
      (2)   All notices issued by a Zoning Enforcement Officer may be served by
certified mail, by placing in a prominent place on the property or delivery to
the property owner, current occupant, to a person temporarily or permanently in
charge of the establishment or the sign owner in case of temporary signs. Any
time periods provided in this section shall be deemed to commence on the date
of the service of the notice.
      (3)   The property owner and current occupant shall be jointly and
severally obligated to reimburse the city immediately for all third party and
administrative expenses, including an administrative fee for city inspection
and administrative costs as set forth in
Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the City of
West Carrollton, incurred in removing any sign including, but not limited to,
costs to the city for the time of city employees. The city shall provide notice
of said expenses and in the event the same is not paid within 30 days after the
mailing of the notice, the amount owed shall be certified as an assessment
against the property of the sign owner, and lien upon that property, together
with an additional 10% assessed for collection as prescribed for unpaid real
estate taxes. If the violations are corrected and removal obligations paid, the
property owner, the occupant or the sign owner may reclaim the sign from the
city.
   (H)   Removal of unlawful sign in the public rights-of-way. Signs, other
than those signs identified in §
153.18(B)(6) through (B)(11), are specifically prohibited in public rights-of-
way. The city shall immediately remove or cause to be removed from the public
rights-of-way any sign other than governmental as referenced in this section.
Just as a private property owner may remove any sign placed on his or her
private property so may the city if the sign is in violation of this section.
Such removal authority must be exercised in a non-discriminatory manner. Any
sign so removed shall be held for 30 days, after which it shall be discarded if
not claimed by the owner. Such sign may be claimed by the owner within this 30
day period upon payment of an administrative fee for city inspection and
administrative costs as set forth in Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the
Codified Ordinances of the City of West Carrollton.
   (I)   Nothing contained in this section shall prevent the municipality from
taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation.
(Ord. 3752, passed 7-11-23)
§ 153.19 REGULATIONS FOR NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Nonconforming signs shall be maintained in good condition pursuant to
§
153.18.
   (B)   A nonconforming sign shall not be altered, modified, relocated or
reconstructed except as follows:
      (1)   When such alteration, modification, relocation or reconstruction
would bring such sign into conformity with these regulations;
      (2)   When the existing use has new ownership which results in a change
in the name of the use or business on the property, and such change complies
with division (B)(4) of this section; or
      (3)   When the space is re-occupied by a similar use and the new occupant
requires no external building or
site renovation, and such change complies with division (B)(4) of this section.
      (4)   Any alteration, modification, relocation or reconstruction
permitted in this section shall be limited to the replacement of a sign panel
or repainting a sign face, and does not permit changes to the structure,
framing, erection or relocation of the sign unless such changes conform to
division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   Alteration and removal of nonconforming signs. A nonconforming sign
shall be removed upon verification that any of the following conditions have
been met:
      (1)   Damage or deterioration has resulted in a loss of more than 50% of
the value of such nonconforming sign; or
      (2)   The use to which such nonconforming sign refers has been abandoned
for more than 180 consecutive days; or
      (3)   The nonconforming sign has been altered, modified, relocated or
reconstructed except as provided by this section.
   (D)   A change in copy is not considered an alteration for the purposes of
this section.
   (E)   Any permit issued for a sign under this chapter shall require that any
nonconforming sign displayed on the premises for which the permit is issued
shall be modified or removed to conform to the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   Any approval by the City of West Carrollton that authorizes the
development of a premises, any building addition, an increase in gross floor
area of 25% or more, or any exterior structural remodeling of a building facade
on which a nonconforming sign is located, shall require all nonconforming signs
on the premises for which the approval is issued to be brought into conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (G)   As an incentive to remove existing nonconforming signs, a bonus of 25%
shall be added to the maximum permitted area and height of any new permanent
freestanding or wall sign which replaces an existing nonconforming sign and
which meets all other requirements of this chapter.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, "verification" shall include:
      (1)   Notice to the city by the sign owner and/or the proprietor of the
use to which the sign refers that said use is abandoned;
      (2)   A response to an inquiry from the city by the sign owner and/or the
proprietor of the use to which the sign refers that said use is abandoned;
         (a)   The city shall send an inquiry to the sign owner and the
proprietor of the use to which the sign refers by certified mail on or after
180 consecutive days after it reasonably appears to the city that the use to
which such nonconforming sign refers has been voluntarily abandoned;
      (3)   If the city receives no response within ten days from the sign
owner and/or the proprietor of the use to which the sign refers to the inquiry
set forth in §
153.19(H)(2).
(Ord. 3752, passed 7-11-23) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.20 PERMIT CONDITIONS AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   A permit issued by the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall become invalid
if work is not commenced within 180 days of issuance, or if work is
subsequently suspended or abandoned for more than 180 days. Any invalidated
permit must be renewed with an additional payment of one-half the original fee.
   (B)   If the installation or placement of any sign is commenced or completed
prior to the issuance of a permit, the specified permit fee shall be doubled.
Payment of such additional fee, however, shall not preclude any or all other
requirements or penalties prescribed in the Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 3752, passed 7-11-23)
§ 153.21 INSPECTIONS.
   Any person installing, altering, or relocating a sign for which a permit has
been issued shall obtain all required inspections. The Zoning Enforcement
Officer may require a final inspection, including an electrical inspection and/
or inspection of the footings for freestanding signs.
(Ord. 3752, passed 7-11-23)
§ 153.22 LICENSES.
   No person may engage in the business of erecting, altering, relocating,
constructing, or maintaining signs requiring permits, without all required
state and federal licenses.
(Ord. 3752, passed 7-11-23) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.23 INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE.
   All persons involved in the maintenance, installation, alteration, or
relocation of signs near or upon any public right-of-way or property shall
agree to hold harmless and indemnify the city, its officers, agents, and
employees, against any and all claims of negligence resulting from such work
insofar as this Sign Code has not specifically directed the placement of a
sign. All persons involved in the maintenance, installation, alteration, or
relocation of signs shall maintain all required insurance and shall file with
the state a satisfactory certificate of insurance to indemnify the state,
county or city against any form of liability to a minimum of $100,000.
(Ord. 3752, passed 7-11-23)
§ 153.24 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to and govern signs in all
districts. No sign shall be erected or maintained unless it is in compliance
with the regulations governing location and bulk of structures for the district
in which it is located, unless such sign is otherwise specifically regulated.
   (B)   Any sign already established on the effective date of this Sign Code,
which sign is rendered nonconforming by the provisions of this Sign Code, and
any sign which, as a result of subsequent amendments of this Sign Code, shall
be rendered nonconforming, shall be subject to the provisions of §
153.l9, Regulations for Nonconforming Signs.
   (C)   Wherever a commercial sign is allowed or permitted under this chapter,
an owner may place a non-commercial sign, subject to the time, place and manner
provisions of this chapter, without applying for a permit and/or paying a fee
that otherwise would be required for the placement of a commercial sign on the
lot; provided, that the sign structure or mounting device is legal without
consideration of message content. The purpose of this provision is to prevent
any inadvertent favoring of commercial speech over non-commercial speech, or
favoring of any particular non-commercial message over any other non-commercial
message. This provision prevails over any provision to the contrary in this
chapter. This provision does not:
      (1)   Create a right to increase the total amount of signage on a parcel
or lot;
      (2)   Affect the requirement that a sign structure or mounting device be
properly permitted under this chapter;
      (3)   Allow a change in the physical structure of a sign or its mounting
device; or
      (4)   Authorize the substitution of an off-site commercial message in
place of an on-site commercial message or in place of a non-commercial message.
   (D)   All non-commercial speech is considered on-premise signage and is
entitled to the privileges that on-premise signs receive under this section.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any other provision herein, signs that display a non-
commercial message are entitled to the maximum square footage allowed any
parcel within the same zoning district.
   (F)   Notwithstanding any other provision herein, signs that display a non-
commercial message are not subject to the temporal limitations otherwise set
forth in this chapter; however, such signs remain subject to the provisions of
§
153.17, Maintenance.
(Ord. 3752, passed 7-11-23)
§ 153.25 SEVERABILITY.
   The invalidation of any section, subsection, clause, or phrase of this
chapter by any court of competent jurisdiction shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions of this chapter.
(Ord. 3752, passed 7-11-23)
§ 153.26 SIGNS ALLOWED IN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY AND ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   The following signs, and only the following signs, shall be allowed in the
public right-of-way in the city:
   (A)   Government signs.
   (B)   Signs installed by employees or officials of a city, state, or federal
agency in the course of their governmental duties and bearing no commercial
message.
   (C)   Signs required by an order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   Signs installed by a transit company with a franchise or other right
to operate in the city, where such signs are installed along its routes and
bear no commercial message.
   (E)   Corporate limit signs.
(Ord. 3752, passed 7-11-23) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate a provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to the following penalties at the discretion of
the court.
   (A)   A first offense resulting in a conviction shall be deemed a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. The court shall impose upon the offender a
fine of not more than $250 but not less than $150, or may impose a sentence of
imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or may impose both such a fine and
sentence of imprisonment.
   (B)   A second offense of any section of this chapter occurring within one
year after the conviction of the first offense shall be deemed a misdemeanor of
the third degree. The court shall impose upon the offender a fine of not more
than $500 but not less than $250, or may impose a sentence of imprisonment for
not more than 60 days, or may impose both such a fine and sentence of
imprisonment.
   (C)   A third and subsequent offense of any section of this chapter
occurring within one year after the conviction of the second offense shall be
deemed a misdemeanor of the second degree. The court shall impose upon the
offender a fine of not more than $750 but not less than $500, or may impose a
sentence of imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or may impose both such a
fine and sentence of imprisonment.
(Ord. 3752, passed 7-11-23)
APPENDIX A
[Image]
APPENDIX B
[Image]
APPENDIX C
[Image]
APPENDIX D
MAXIMUM SIGN DIMENSIONS
          LD, A, RE,  R-4, R-5 &                       B-1, B-2 & M-1, M-2 & M-
          R-1, R-2 &  R-MHP       OD       O & O-R     CC         3
          H           Multiple-   Olde     Office and  Commercial Business Park
Sign Type Single-     Family      Downtown Office-     and City   &
          Family      Residential District Residential Center     Manufacturing
          Residential Districts            Districts   Districts  Districts
          Districts
                                               LD, A, RE,  R-4, R-5 &                        B-1, B-2 & M-1, M-2 & M-
                                               R-1, R-2 &  R-MHP       OD        O & O-R     CC         3
                                               H           Multiple-   Olde      Office and  Commercial Business Park
Sign Type                                      Single-     Family      Downtown  Office-     and City   &
                                               Family      Residential District  Residential Center     Manufacturing
                                               Residential Districts             Districts   Districts  Districts
                                               Districts
(1) Nameplates (a)                             2 sq. ft.   2 sq. ft.   2 sq. ft. 2 sq. ft.   2 sq. ft.  2 sq. ft.
(2) Identification Signs
                                               32 sq. ft.  32 sq. ft.  32 sq.    32 sq. ft.  32 sq. ft. 32 sq. ft.
A.   Signs at a Residential Develop- ment (barea        area        ft. area  area        area       area
                                               6 ft.       6 ft.       6 ft.     6 ft.       6 ft.      6 ft. height
                                               height      height      height    height      height
B.   Signs at Non-Residential Development
                                               1.0 sq. ft. 1.0 sq. ft.
                                               per lineal  per lineal  1.0 sq.   1.5 sq. ft. 1.5 sq.
                                               ft. of      ft. of      ft. per   per lineal  ft. per    1.5 sq. ft.
1.   Wall Signs                             bldg.       bldg.       lineal    ft. of      lineal ft. per lineal
                                               frontage,   frontage,   ft. of    bldg.       of bldg.   ft. of bldg.
                                               not to      not to      bldg.     frontage    frontage   frontage
                                               exceed 32   exceed 32   frontage
                                               sq. ft.     sq. ft.
a.   Projecting Signs                       NP          NP          12 sq.    NP          12 sq. ft. NP
                                                                       ft.
b.   Under- canopy signs                    NP          NP          8 sq. ft. NP          8 sq. ft.  NP
                                                                       50% of                50% of     50% of window
c.   Window signs                           NP          NP          window    NP          window     area
                                                                       area                  area
2.   Freestanding signs
                                                                       1/2 sq.
                                               1/2 sq. ft. 1/2 sq. ft. ft. per   1/2 sq. ft. 1/2 sq.
                                               per lineal  per lineal  lineal    per linear  ft. per    1/2 sq. ft.
                                               ft. of      ft. of      ft. of    ft. of      linear ft. per linear
                                               street      street      street    street      of street  ft. of street
                                               frontage,   frontage,   frontage, frontage,   frontage,  frontage, not
a.   Single Occupancy                       not to      not to      not to    not to      not to     to exceed 50
                                               exceed 32   exceed 32   exceed 32 exceed 50   exceed 50  sq. ft. in
                                               sq. ft. in  sq. ft. in  sq. ft.   sq. ft. in  sq. ft. in area nor 8
                                               area nor 6  area nor 6  in area   area nor 8  area nor 8 ft. in height
                                               ft. in      ft. in      nor 6 ft. ft. in      ft. in
                                               height      height      in height height      height
                                                                       (c)
                                                                       1/2 sq.
                                                                       ft. per   1.0 sq. ft. 1.0 sq.
                                                                       lineal    per lineal  ft. per    1.0 sq. ft.
                                                                       ft. of    ft. of      lineal ft. per lineal
                                                                       street    street      of street  ft. of street
                                                                       frontage, frontage,   frontage,  frontage, not
b.   Multiple Occupancy or Shopping Center (NP          NP          not to    not to      not to     to exceed 100
                                                                       exceed 50 exceed 100  exceed 100 sq. ft. in
                                                                       sq. ft.   sq. ft. in  sq. ft. in area nor 15
                                                                       in area   area nor 15 area nor   ft. in height
                                                                       nor 8 ft. ft. in      15 ft. in
                                                                       in height height      height
                                                                       (c)
(3)   Temporary Signs (e)
A.   Temporary Wall Sign                    NP          32 sq. ft.  32 sq.    32 sq. ft.  32 sq. ft. 32 sq. ft.
                                                                       ft.
                                               6 sq. ft.   24 sq. ft.  24 sq.    24 sq. ft.  32 sq. ft. 32 sq. ft.
B.   Temporary Free- standing Sign          area        area        ft. area  area        area       area
                                               4 ft.       6 ft.       6 ft.     6 ft.       6 ft.      6 ft. height
                                               height      height      height    height      height
NP - Not Permitted
(a)   Includes home occupations
(b)   Maximum per street entrance
(c)   Where site permits
(d)   See § 153.11(B)(8)
(e)   See § 153.13.
 
(Ord. 3752, passed 7-11-23)
APPENDIX E
[Image]
APPENDIX F
ILLUMINANCE MEASUREMENT DISTANCES SIGN AREA VERSUS MEASUREMENT DISTANCE
AREA OF SIGN sq. ft. MEASUREMENT Distance (ft.)
AREA OF SIGN sq. ft. MEASUREMENT Distance (ft.)
10                   32
15                   39
20                   45
25                   50
30                   55
35                   59
40                   63
45                   67
50                   71
55                   74
60                   77
65                   81
70                   84
75                   87
80                   89
85                   92
90                   95
95                   97
100                  100
110                  105
120                  110
130                  114
140                  118
150                  122
160                  126
170                  130
180                  134
190                  138
200                  141
220                  148
240                  155
260                  161
280                  167
300                  173
* For signs with an area in square feet other than those specifically listed in
the table (i.e., 12 sq. ft., 400 sq. ft. etc.), the measurement distance may be
calculated with the following formula: Area of Sign Sq. Ft. x 100
 
CHAPTER 154: ZONING CODE
   EDITOR’S NOTE: The current City Zoning Code which is codified herein as
Chapter 154 was adopted by Ordinance 3248, passed September 9, 2003. Subsequent
amendments to Ordinance 3248 will be indicated by legislative histories placed
at the end of the affected sections.
Section
Glossary
154.02.01   Definitions
General Zoning Provisions
154.03.01   Title and Jurisdictional Limits
154.03.02   Interpretation; Conflicts of Laws
154.03.03   Severability
154.03.04   Repeal of Conflicting Ordinances; Effective Date
154.03.05   General Requirements
Nonconforming Uses
154.04.01   Nonconforming Uses
154.04.01(H)   Nonconforming Lots of Record
154.04.01(I)   Conditionally Permitted Uses Not Considered Nonconforming Uses
Administration and Enforcement
154.05.01   General Provisions
154.05.02   Duties and Responsibilities of the City Manager
154.05.03   Duties and Responsibilities of the Zoning Enforcement Officer
154.05.04   Duties and Role of the City Planning Commission
154.05.05   Duties and Role of the City Council
154.05.06   Duties and Role of the Board of Zoning Appeals
154.05.07   Administrative Procedures
154.05.08   Enforcement Procedures
154.05.09   Penalty; Equitable Remedies
Variances
154.06.01(A)   Purpose
154.06.01(B)   Public Hearing and Notice
154.06.01(C)   Findings
154.06.01(D)   Authorized Variances
154.06.01(E)   Action by Board of Zoning Appeals
154.06.01(F)   Supplementary Conditions and Safeguards
Conditional Use Regulations
154.07.01   Conditional Use Regulations
154.07.01(A)   Contents of Conditional Use Permit Application
154.07.01(B)   General Standards for All Conditional Uses
154.07.01(B)(1)   Expansion of Existing Conditionally Permitted Uses
154.07.01(B)(2)   Findings
154.07.01(B)(3)   Substantially Similar Use
154.07.01(B)(4)   Supplementary Conditions and Safeguards
154.07.01(B)(5)   Joint Variance Application
154.07.01(B)(6)   Public Hearing
154.07.01(B)(7)   Action by the Planning Commission
154.07.01(B)(8)   Expiration of Conditional Use Permit
Amendments to Zoning Code
154.08.01   Procedure for Amendments
154.08.02   Zoning Map Amendments
Establishment of Districts and Official Zoning Map
154.09.01   Purpose
154.09.02   Establishment of Zoning Districts
154.09.03   Zoning District Map
154.09.04   Zoning Map Legend
154.09.05   Identification of Official Zoning Map
154.09.06   Interpretation of Zoning Districts; Map and Text
154.09.07   Zoning Upon Annexation
Zoning Districts
L-D Limited Development District
154.10.001   L-D Limited Development District Purpose
154.10.002   Principal Permitted Uses
154.10.003   Conditionally Permitted Uses
154.10.004   Accessory Uses and Structures
154.10.005   Minimum Zoning Lot Size
154.10.006   Minimum Frontage
154.10.007   Maximum Height
154.10.008   Minimum Yard Requirements
154.10.009   Off-Street Parking and Loading
154.10.010   Signs
154.10.011   Other Regulations
A Agricultural District
154.10.012   A Agricultural District
154.10.013   Principal Permitted Uses
154.10.014   Conditional Permitted Uses
154.10.015   Accessory Uses and Structures
154.10.016   Minimum Zoning Lot Size
154.10.017   Minimum Frontage
154.10.018   Minimum Yard Requirements
154.10.019   Maximum and Minimum Height Requirements
154.10.020   Off-Street Parking and Loading
154.10.020.01   Signs
154.10.020.02   Other Regulations
RE Residential Estate District
154.10.021   RE - Residential Estate District
154.10.022   Principal Permitted Uses
154.10.023   Conditional Permitted Uses
154.10.024   Accessory Uses and Structures
154.10.025   Minimum Zoning Lot Size
154.10.026   Minimum Frontage
154.10.027   Minimum Yard Requirements
154.10.028   Maximum and Minimum Height Requirements
154.10.029   Required Minimum Dwelling
154.10.030   Off-Street Parking and Loading
154.10.031   Signs
154.10.032   Other Regulations
R-1 Single-Family Residential District
154.10.041   R-1 Single-Family Residential District
154.10.042   Principal Permitted Uses
154.10.043   Conditionally Permitted Uses
154.10.044   Accessory Uses and Structures
154.10.045   Minimum Zoning Lot Size
154.10.046   Minimum Frontage
154.10.047   Minimum Yard Requirements
154.10.048   Maximum Height Requirements
154.10.049   Required Minimum Dwelling Size
154.10.050   Off-Street Parking and Loading
154.10.051   Signs.
154.10.052   Other Regulations
R-2 Single-Family Residential District
154.10.061   R-2 Single-Family Residential District
154.10.062   Principal Permitted Uses
154.10.063   Conditionally Permitted Uses
154.10.064   Accessory Uses and Structures
154.10.065   Minimum Zoning Lot Size
154.10.066   Minimum Frontage
154.10.067   Minimum Yard Requirements
154.10.068   Maximum Height Requirements
154.10.069   Required Minimum Dwelling Size
154.10.070   Off-Street Parking and Loading
154.10.071   Signs.
154.10.072   Other Regulations
R-3 Single-Family Residential District
   (intentionally left blank)
R-4 Multiple-Family Residential District
154.10.081   Multiple-Family Residential District
154.10.082   Principal Permitted Uses
154.10.083   Conditionally Permitted Uses
154.10.084   Accessory Uses and Structures
154.10.085   Minimum Zoning Lot Size
154.10.086   Minimum Frontage
154.10.087   Minimum Yard Requirements
154.10.088   Maximum and Minimum Height Requirements
154.10.089   Required Minimum Dwelling Size
154.10.090   Off-Street Parking and Loading
154.10.091   Signs
154.10.092   Other Regulations
154.10.093   Architectural design standards.
R-5 Multiple-Family Residential District
154.10.101   R-5 Multiple-Family Residential District
154.10.102   Principal Permitted Uses
154.10.103   Conditionally Permitted Uses
154.10.104   Accessory Uses and Structures
154.10.105   Minimum Zoning Lot Size
154.10.106   Minimum Frontage
154.10.107   Minimum Yard Requirements
154.10.108   Maximum and Minimum Height Requirements
154.10.109   Required Minimum Dwelling Size
154.10.110   Off-Street Parking and Loading
154.10.111   Signs
154.10.112   Other Regulations
154.10.113   Architectural design standards.
R-PUD Planned Development District
154.10.121   R-PUD Planned Development District
154.10.122   Principal Permitted Uses
154.10.123   Conditionally Permitted Uses
154.10.124   Accessory Uses and Structures
154.10.125   Minimum Land Area, Maximum Density
154.10.126   Minimum Frontage and Lot Size
154.10.127   Minimum Yard Requirements
154.10.128   Maximum Height
154.10.129   Required Minimum Dwelling Size
154.10.130   Off-Street Parking and Loading
154.10.131   Signs
154.10.132   Other Regulations
154.10.133   Procedures and Provisions for Approval of R-PUD Developments
154.10.134   Architectural design standards.
R-MHP Mobile Home Park District
154.10.201   R-MHP Manufactured/Mobile Home Park District
154.10.202   Principal Permitted Uses
154.10.203   Conditionally Permitted Uses
154.10.204   Accessory Uses and Structures
154.10.205   General Standards for Manufactured Home Parks
O-R Office Residential District
154.10.301   O-R Office Residential District
154.10.302   Principal Permitted Uses
154.10.303   Conditionally Permitted Uses
154.10.304   Accessory Uses and Structures
154.10.305   Minimum Zoning Lot Size
154.10.306   Minimum Frontage
154.10.307   Minimum Yard Requirements
154.10.308   Maximum and Minimum Height Requirements
154.10.309   Required Minimum Dwelling Size
154.10.310   Off-Street Parking and Loading
154.10.311   Signs
154.10.312   Architectural design standards
O Office District
154.10.351   O-Office District
154.10.352   Principal Permitted Uses
154.10.353   Conditionally Permitted Uses
154.10.354   Accessory Uses and Structures
154.10.355   Minimum Zoning Lot Size
154.10.356   Minimum Frontage
154.10.357   Minimum Yard Requirements
154.10.358   Maximum Height
154.10.359   Off-Street Parking and Loading
154.10.360   Signs
154.10.361   Other Regulations
154.10.362   Architectural design standards.
B-1 Convenience Commercial District
154.10.401   B-1 Convenience Commercial District
154.10.402   Principal Permitted Uses
154.10.403   Conditionally Permitted Uses
154.10.404   Accessory Uses and Structures
154.10.405   Minimum Zoning Lot Size
154.10.406   Minimum Frontage
154.10.407   Minimum Yard Requirements
154.10.408   Maximum Height
154.10.409   Off-Street Parking and Loading
154.10.410   Signs
154.10.411   Other Regulations
154.10.412   Architectural design standards
B-2 General Commercial District
154.10.421   B-2 General Commercial District
154.10.422   Principal Permitted Uses
154.10.423   Conditionally Permitted Uses
154.10.424   Accessory Uses and Structures
154.10.425   Minimum Zoning Lot Size
154.10.426   Minimum Frontage
154.10.427   Minimum Yard Requirements
154.10.428   Maximum Lot Coverage
154.10.429   Maximum Height
154.10.430   Off-Street Parking and Loading
154.10.431   Signs
154.10.432   Other Regulations
154.10.433   Architectural design standards
OD Olde Downtown District
154.10.451   Olde Downtown District
154.10.452   Principal Permitted Uses
154.10.453   Conditionally Permitted Uses
154.10.454   Accessory Uses and Structures
154.10.455   Minimum Zoning Lot Size
154.10.456   Minimum Frontage
154.10.457   Minimum Yard Requirements
154.10.458   Maximum Lot Coverage
154.10.459   Maximum Height
154.10.460   Off-Street Parking and Loading
154.10.461   Signs
154.10.462   Other Regulations
154.10.463   Architectural design standards'
CC City Center District
154.10.471   CC City Center District
154.10.472   Application and Review Procedures of Site Development Plans
154.10.473   Use Regulations
154.10.474   Non-conforming Uses
154.10.475   Conditions for Review and Approval
154.10.476   Standards and Guidelines
154.10.477   Revisions of Final Site Development Plan after Approval
154.10.478   Architectural design standards
154.10.479   Guarantee for installation of public improvements.
Heritage District
154.10.481   H Heritage Single-Family Residential District
154.10.482   Principal Permitted Uses
154.10.483   Conditionally Permitted Uses
154.10.484   Accessory Uses and Structures
154.10.485   Minimum Zoning Lot Size
154.10.486   Minimum Frontage
154.10.487   Minimum Yard Requirements
154.10.488   Maximum and Minimum Height Requirements
154.10.489   Required Minimum Dwelling Size
154.10.490   Off-Street Parking and Loading
154.10.491   Signs
154.10.492   Design Review Regulations
154.10.493   Definitions
154.10.494   Powers and Duties of the Design Review Architect
154.10.495   Triggering Mechanism for Design Review
154.10.496   Specific Architectural Design Guidelines
154.10.497   Limitation on Issuance of Zoning & Demolition Permits
154.10.498   Certificate of Appropriateness
154.10.499   Penalties
154.10.500   Minimum Maintenance Requirement
154.10.501   Severability
154.10.502   Other Regulations
M-1 Business Park District
154.10.601   M-1 Business Park District
154.10.602   Principal Permitted Uses
154.10.603   Conditionally Permitted Uses
154.10.604   Accessory Uses and Structures
154.10.605   Minimum Zoning Lot Size
154.10.606   Minimum Frontage
154.10.607   Minimum Yard Requirements
154.10.608   Maximum Lot Coverage
154.10.609   Maximum Height
154.10.610   Off-Street Parking and Loading
154.10.611   Signs
154.10.612   Other Regulations
154.10.613   Architectural design standards
M-2 Manufacturing District
154.10.621   M-2 Manufacturing District
154.10.622   Principal Permitted Uses
154.10.623   Conditionally Permitted Uses
154.10.624   Accessory Uses and Structures
154.10.625   Minimum Zoning Lot Size
154.10.626   Minimum Frontage
154.10.627   Minimum Yard Requirements
154.10.628   Maximum Lot Coverage
154.10.629   Maximum Height
154.10.630   Off-Street Parking and Loading
154.10.631   Signs
154.10.632   Other Regulations
M-3 Rural Manufacturing District
154.10.651   M-3 Manufacturing District
154.10.652   Principal Permitted Uses
154.10.653   Conditionally Permitted Uses
154.10.654   Accessory Uses and Structures
154.10.655   Minimum Zoning Lot Size
154.10.656   Minimum Frontage
154.10.657   Minimum Yard Requirements
154.10.658   Maximum Lot Coverage
154.10.659   Maximum Height
154.10.660   Off-Street Parking and Loading
154.10.661   Signs
154.10.662   Other Regulations
154.10.663   Architectural design standards
PUD Planned Unit Development District
154.10.701   PUD Planned Unit Development District
154.10.702   PUD Rezoning and Concurrent Plan Approval
154.10.703   Request for PUD District
154.10.704   Permitted Uses and Development Standards
154.10.705   Procedures and Provisions for Approval of PUD District
154.10.706   Plan Review and Approval
Supplementary Regulations for Zoning Districts
154.11.01    Conversion of Dwellings
154.11.02    Fencing and Wall Regulations
154.11.03    Performance Standards for Nuisance Values
154.11.04    Projections into Yards
154.11.05    Supplementary Height Requirements
Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements
154.12.01    Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements
154.12.01(A)   General Requirements
154.12.01(B)   Specific Off-Street Parking and Loading Space Requirements
Landscaping Requirements
154.13.01    Landscaping Requirements; Screening, Buffer Yards, and Tree Lawns
154.13.01(A)   Applicability
154.13.01(B)   General Requirements for Submission
154.13.01(C)   Approval
154.13.01(D)   Landscape and Buffer Yard Standards
154.13.01(E)   Screening and Buffering
154.13.01(F)   Right-of-Way, Easements and Setbacks
154.13.01(G)   Landscaping for Vehicular Use Areas
154.13.01(H)   Landscaping for Service Structures
154.13.01(I)   Landscape Requirements Matrix
154.13.01(J)   Modification
154.13.01(K)   Specifications for Plant Material
154.13.01(L)   Recommended Trees for West Carrollton
Site Plan Review and Access Management Requirements
154.14.01   Site Plan Review Requirements
154.14.01(A)   When Site Plan Required
154.14.01(B)   Applications for Site Plan Approval
154.14.01(C)   Site Plan Review
154.14.01(D)   Conformance with Approved Site Plans
154.14.01(E)   Amendments to Approved Site Plans
154.14.01(F)   Phased Site Plans
154.14.02   Access Management Requirement
154.14.02(A)   Purpose
154.14.02(B)   Traffic Impact Study Required
154.14.02(C)   Design Years
154.14.02(D)   Traffic Impact Study Contents
154.14.02(E)   Access Management Standards
Conservation District Design Review Guidelines
154.15.01   Design Review
154.15.02   Definitions
154.15.03   Powers and Duties of the Design Review Architect
154.15.04   Triggering Mechanism for Design Review
154.15.05   Specific Architectural Design Guidelines
154.15.06   Limitation on Issuance of Zoning & Demolition Permits
154.15.07   Certificate of Appropriateness
154.15.08   Penalties
154.15.09   Minimum Maintenance Requirement
154.15.10   Severability
Supplementary Regulations for Specific Land Uses
154.16.01   Accessory Buildings and Uses
154.16.02   Clustered Residential Subdivisions
154.16.03   Home Occupations
154.16.05   Resource and Mineral Extraction
154.16.06   Satellite Dish Antennas
154.16.07   Sexually-Oriented Businesses
154.16.08   Temporary Buildings and Uses
154.16.09   Wireless Telecommunication Facilities
154.16.10   Garage sales
154.16.11   Mobile food vendors
154.16.12   Hookah bars.
154.16.13   Alternative financial services providers.
Architectural Design Standards
154.17.01   Architectural design standards
GLOSSARY
§ 154.02.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively. Those items not herein
specifically defined shall be given their common ordinary meaning whenever it
is appropriate or reasonable to do so.
   ACCESSORY USE/ ACCESSORY BUILDING/ ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. An accessory use,
building, or structure is a use, object, subordinate building or structure
which is performed or constructed or installed on, above, or below the surface
of a zoned lot, customarily incidental to the principal or conditionally
permitted use and is regulated in §
154.16.01. Accessory uses, buildings and related structures include but are not
limited to the following uses:
   (1)   Antennas used by an amateur radio operator holding a valid amateur
radio (HAM) license issued by the Federal Communications Commission;
   (2)   Decks, gazebos, and patios;
   (3)   (EDITOR'S NOTE: Former subsection (3) was repealed by Ordinance 3459,
passed November 9, 2010.)
   (4)   Garages, storage sheds and utility buildings;
   (5)   Off-street parking and loading as regulated by §
154.12.01;
   (6)   Poles;
   (7)   Retail sales and service use when not conducted for the general retail
public as regulated by §
154.16.01(B)(3)(d);
   (8)   Satellite dish antennas;
   (9)   Signs;
   (10)   Swimming pools;
   (11)   Temporary uses as regulated by §
154.16.08;
   (12)   Waste receptacles; and
   (13)   Wireless telecommunications facility as regulated by §
154.16.09.
   ALLEY - A public or private way 20 feet or less in width which is used
primarily for vehicular access to the back or side of properties which
otherwise abut on streets.
   ALTERNATIVE FINANCIAL SERVICES PROVIDER - Businesses which provide financial
products and services and which meet any one or more of the following
definitions:
   (1)   Check-cashing business. Any business that is licensed, or is required
to be licensed, to cash checks as defined and regulated under R.C. §§ 1315.21
through 1315.30.
   (2)   Credit services organization. Any business that is registered, or is
required to be registered, to provide consumer credit services as defined and
regulated under R.C. §§ 4712.01 through 4712.14.
   (3)   Short-term loan lender. Any business that is licensed, or is required
to be licensed, to make short-term loans as defined and regulated under R.C. §§
1321.35 through 1321.48.
   (4)   Small loan lender. Any business that is licensed, or is required to be
licensed, to make small loans as defined and regulated under R.C. §§ 1321.01 to
1321.19.
   (5)   Mortgage loan lender. Any business that is licensed, or is required to
be licensed, to make real or chattel mortgage loans as defined and regulated
under R.C. §§ 1321.51 through 1321.60.
   (6)   Pawnbroker. Any business that is licensed, or is required to be
licensed, to operate as a pawnbroker as defined and regulated under R.C.
Chapter 4727.
   (7)   Exclusions. For purposes of this definition, "alternative financial
services provider" does not include any state- or federally-chartered bank,
savings and loan, credit union, or similar financial institution.
   ANIMAL HOSPITAL/VETERINARY CLINIC - Any establishment used for the medical
or surgical care, observation, or treatment of animals or pets. Use as a kennel
shall be limited to short-time boarding and shall be only incidental to such
hospital use.
   ANTENNA – AMATEUR RADIO TOWER.  A free standing or building-mounted
structure, including any base, tower or pole, antenna, and appurtenances,
intended for airway communication purposes by a person holding a valid amateur
radio (HAM) license issued by the Federal Communications Commission.
   ANTENNA – SATELLITE DISH. A device incorporating a reflective surface that
is in the shape of a shallow dish, cone, horn or cornucopia. Such device shall
be used to transmit and/or receive radio electromagnetic waves between
terrestrially and/or orbitally based uses. This definition is meant to include,
but not be limited to, what are commonly referred to as satellite earth
stations, television reception only satellite dish antennas (TVROs), and
satellite microwave antennas.
   AUTOMOBILE – LIGHT AND MEDIUM TRUCKS.  An automobile includes every motor
vehicle with a single front and rear axle, except motorcycles, designed for
carrying 10 passengers or less and used for the transportation of persons. The
term automobile will also include light and medium trucks which have a single
rear axle.
   AUTOMOBILE – CONVENIENCE MARKET/GAS STATION MINI-MART. A facility associated
with the sale of gasoline products for automobiles, that also offers for sale
prepackaged food items and related, tangible consumer goods, primarily for
self-service by the consumer. Hot beverages, fountain- type beverages, and
pastries may be among the food items offered for sale.
   AUTOMOBILE – CONVENIENCE DRIVE- THROUGH. A facility designed for automobiles
to drive into the structure to purchase prepackaged food items and tangible
consumer goods. Hot and cold beverages and snack foods are typically among the
food items offered for sale.
   AUTOMOBILE DETAILING SHOP. A facility which provides automobile cleaning
services such as exterior hand washing and waxing; interior vacuuming,
shampooing, steam cleaning and polishing; and engine cleaning/degreasing. Other
services may include minor scratch, swirl, and dent repair; minor paint
correction; paint detailing; fabric or paint protection; headlight restoration;
and installation of after-market accessories such as tinting, auto alarms,
spoilers, sunroofs, headlight covers, and similar items. Typically these
services are provided by appointment scheduled in advance and not on a walk-in
basis.
   AUTOMOBILE – FUELING STATION. A facility for dispensing gasoline, kerosene,
or any motor fuel for automobiles in typically a self-service and automated
manner. These facilities usually have one or no employees working on site and
the sale of other goods is limited to travel aides and minor automobile
accessories.
   AUTOMOBILE – SERVICE STATION/REPAIR GARAGE.  A place where gasoline,
kerosene, or any motor fuel or lubricating oil or grease for operating
automobiles may be offered for sale to the public and deliveries are made
directly into motor vehicles, and may include greasing and oiling on the
premises and replacement or installation of parts and accessories, including
major repair work such as: motor rebuilding or replacement (but not the
reconditioning of motor vehicles); collision services such as body, frame, and
fender repair; overall spray painting of automobiles; upholstery work; auto
glasswork; welding; tire recapping; radiator repairs; and other similar major
mechanical work.
   AUTOMOBILE WASHING FACILITY, FULL SERVICE.  A building or portion thereof
containing facilities for washing automobiles using production line methods.
   AUTOMOBILE WASHING FACILITY, SELF SERVICE. A building or portion thereof
containing facilities for washing automobiles wherein the customer provides
labor and where no self-propelled wash racks are provided.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING. The dismantling or disassembling of used motor vehicles
or trailers; or the storage, sale or dumping of dismantled, partially
dismantled, nonoperating or wrecked vehicles or their parts.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building which is partly underground and which
has one half or more of its ceiling height below the average finished grade of
the ground adjoining the building in which it is located.
   BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS. The Board of Zoning Appeals of the city.
   BUILDING. Any permanent or stationary structure having a roof supported by
columns or walls for the housing or enclosure of persons, animals, or property.
At no time shall this definition be construed to include mobile homes.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the average contact ground level
at the front of the building to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof
or to the deck line of a mansard roof or to the ridge for gable, hip, or
gambrel roofs.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. The line nearest the front and across a lot
establishing the minimum open space to be provided between the front line of
the building foundation and the front lot line. The front lot line of the
foundation of enclosed porches or vestibules if nearer the front line than the
main foundation.
   BUSINESS. An occupation, enterprise, undertaking, or employment which
engages in the purchase, sale, barter, or exchange of goods, wares,
merchandise, or services or where there is the maintenance or operation of an
office for the exhibition, sale, or offering of merchandise or services.
   CHARTER. Charter of the city.
   CHURCHES AND OTHER SIMILAR PLACES OF RELIGIOUS WORSHIP.  An institution that
people regularly attend to participate in or hold religious services, meetings,
and other activities. The term “church” shall not carry a secular connotation
and shall include buildings in which the religious services of any denomination
are held.
   CITY. The City of West Carrollton, Ohio.
   CITY COUNCIL.  The City Council of the City of West Carrollton.
   CITY MANAGER.  The City Manager of the City of West Carrollton.
   CLEAR DISTANCE. The open space between any structure, whether primary or
accessory.
   CLERK OF COUNCIL. The Clerk of Council of the City of West Carrollton.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A plan, or any portion thereof, adopted by the City
Planning Commission and the City Council showing the general location and
extent of present and proposed physical facilities including housing,
industrial, and commercial uses, transportation, parks, schools, and other
community activities. This plan establishes the goals, objectives, and policies
of the city.
   CONCEPT PLAN. See PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT, PRELIMINARY.
   CONTRACTOR.  For the purposes of this Chapter, this term shall mean a
business involved in building, construction, remodeling, and/or landscaping,
which includes but is not limited to trades such as heating, air conditioning,
painting, plumbing, and roofing.
   CONTRACTOR OFFICE. A building or portion thereof used for conducting the
administrative affairs of a Contractor, which does not involve any exterior
storage or the parking of any trailers, machinery, equipment, or vehicles
measuring more than seven (7) feet in width, seven (7) feet in height, or
eighteen (18) feet in length.
   CONTRACTOR SHOP. An enclosed space used for the housing and/or operation of
machinery, the provision of services, the fabrication of building-related
products, and the interior storage of a Contractor which does not involve any
exterior storage area. A Contractor Shop may also be comprised of a Contractor
Office.
   CONTRACTOR STORAGE YARD. An outdoor space used primarily for the storage of
trailers, equipment, vehicles, machinery, building materials, construction
materials, landscape materials, or components by a Contractor, who shall also
be the owner and/or occupant of the premises. The Contractor Storage Yard shall
be screened from public view as required by Section
154.13.01, Landscape Requirements. A Contractor Storage Yard may also be
comprised of a Contractor Office and/or a Contractor Shop.
   CONTRACTOR SALES AND STORAGE YARD. A Contractor Storage Yard also used for
the sale of building, construction, remodeling, and/or landscaping materials to
the public. A Contractor Sales and Storage Yard may also be comprised of a
Contractor Office and/or a Contractor Shop.
   DAY CARE FACILITY, ADULT. A facility, licensed by the state, providing care
or supervision for the elderly and/or functionally impaired adults in a
protective setting for a portion of a 24-hour day. Services include the
monitoring of clients, social and recreation services, food and nourishment,
and health support services. The operation of the facility shall not include
overnight occupancy by the clients. Adult day care may be operated within
structures on church premises or publicly owned community centers, provided
such uses are lawfully permitted and operating in the underlying zoning
district.
   DAY CARE FACILITY – CHILD DAY CARE CENTER. Any place where child day care is
provided for 13 or more children at one time, or any place that is not the
permanent residence of the licensee or administrator in which child day care is
provided for 7 to 12 children. (Based on ORC 5104).
   DAY CARE FACILITY – TYPE A FAMILY DAY CARE HOME.  A permanent residence of
the administrator in which private or publically-funded child day care is
provided for 7 to 12 children at one time, or a permanent residence of the
provider in which private child day care is provided for 4 to 12 children at
one time if four or more are under two years of age. In counting children for
the purposes of this section, no children of the administrator shall be
counted. (Based on ORC 5104).
   DAY CARE FACILITY – TYPE B FAMILY DAY CARE HOME.  A permanent residence of
the provider in which child day care is provided for one to six children at one
time and in which not more than three children are under two years old at one
time. In counting children for the purposes of this section, no children of the
day care provider shall be counted. (Based on ORC 5104).
   DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of land.
   DENSITY, HIGH. Ten to 15 dwelling units per acre.
   DENSITY, LOW. One to four dwelling units per acre.
   DENSITY, MEDIUM. Five to nine dwelling units per acre.
   DISTRICT.  Same as ZONING DISTRICT.
   DRAINAGEWAY. A water course, gully, dry stream, creek, or ditch which
carries storm water runoff, which is subject to flooding or ponding, which is
fed by street or building gutters or by storm water sewers, or which serves the
purpose of draining water from the lands adjacent to such water course, gully,
dry stream, creek, or ditch.
   DRIVE-IN/DRIVE THROUGH/DRIVE-UP. A business establishment designed or
operated to serve a patron who is seated in an automobile.
   DWELLING. Any building, or portion thereof, which is designed or used
exclusively for residential purposes, including one-family, two-family, and
multi- family dwellings, but not including hotels, motels, boarding houses,
lodging houses, tents, cabins, travel trailers, or tree houses. An
industrialized unit and a permanently-sited manufactured home shall also be
considered to be a dwelling.
   DWELLING – CONDOMINIUM. A multiple- family dwelling where each family owns
its own dwelling unit and the common areas of the building and site are owned
and maintained jointly by the occupants.
   DWELLING, DETACHED. A building having no party wall in common with another
building
   DWELLING, DETACHED SINGLE-FAMILY.  A building designed for or used for
residence purposes by one family.
   DWELLING – INDUSTRIALIZED UNIT.  A residential building unit or assembly of
closed construction fabricated in an off-site facility pursuant to a state
building code, such as the Ohio Basic Building Code, that is substantially
self-sufficient as a unit or as part of a greater structure, and that requires
transportation to the site of intended use. An industrialized unit is
manufactured in such a manner that its structural, plumbing, electrical,
environmental control, or fire protection elements or components are concealed
and are not readily accessible for inspection at the site of its intended use,
without disassembly, damage, or destruction. An industrialized unit includes
units installed on the site as independent units, as part of a group of units,
or incorporated with standard construction methods to form a completed
structural entity. An industrialized unit does not include a manufactured home
or mobile home as defined herein and is commonly referred to as a modular
home.   
   DWELLING, MANUFACTURED HOME.  A manufactured home, as defined herein, which
is located in a manufactured-mobile home park, as defined herein.
   DWELLING, MOBILE HOME. A mobile home, as defined herein, which is located in
a manufactured- mobile home park, as defined herein.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof designed for or
used by three or more families living independently of one another.
   DWELLING, ROW. A dwelling having a party wall on each side in common with an
adjoining dwelling unless it is situated as the outermost dwelling; in the
latter case, it will have a party wall on one side only. A row dwelling shall
be considered to be a multiple-family dwelling.
   DWELLING – SINGLE-FAMILY, ZERO LOT LINE.  A detached, single-family dwelling
unit distinguished by one exterior wall on a side property line; or two
attached, single-family units on separate lots sharing a common wall at the
side-property line.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY.  A building designed for or used by two families, with
the adjacent dwelling units separated by floor or by a common party wall.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single-family dwelling or a single residential unit in a
dwelling used by one family for cooking, living, and sleeping purposes.   
   ELDERLY. Persons or households headed by a person age 60 or older.
   EMERGENCY. A reasonably unforeseen occurrence with a potential to endanger
personal safety or health, or cause substantial damage to property, that calls
for immediate action.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who performs any service on the premises of a business on
a full-time, part-time, or contract basis, whether or not the person is
denominated an employee, independent contractor, agent, or otherwise and
whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage, or other compensation by the
operator of said business. Employee does not include a person exclusively on
the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or equipment on the
premises, or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
   ENGINEER. Any engineer licensed by the State of Ohio.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICE. The location, erection, construction, reconstruction,
change, alteration, maintenance, removal, use, or enlargement by public
utilities or city or other governmental agencies of underground or overhead
gas, electrical, steam, or water generation, transmission of distribution
systems, including buildings, structures, towers, poles, wires, mains, drains,
sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic
signals, hydrants, and other similar equipment or accessories and the use of
land in connection therewith, for the furnishing of adequate service by the
public utilities or city or other governmental agencies or for the public
health, safety, and general welfare.
   ESTABLISHMENT. A building or structure used for commercial or industrial
purposes, including stores, shops, plants, factories, warehouses, wholesale
houses, and the like.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission and any legally appointed,
designated or elected agent or successor.
   FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, marriage, adoption, or legal
guardianship residing in and maintaining a common household as their permanent
residence, as distinguished from a group occupying a rooming house, motel or
hotel, or fraternity or sorority house. A “family” shall also include a
functional family, as defined herein. To protect the public health, safety, and
welfare, the maximum occupancy of any residential unit shall be determined by
the West Carrollton Property Maintenance Code, the West Carrollton Fire
Prevention Code, and the Ohio Building Code.
   FAMILY, FUNCTIONAL. One or more persons who are not related by blood or
marriage with a demonstrable and recognizable bond characteristic of a cohesive
unit, residing in and maintaining a common household as their permanent
residence. This bond typically involves the function of child-rearing (whether
natural or foster) or group living arrangements for the disabled, elderly
persons over 60 years of age, or mentally/developmentally disabled persons. To
protect the public health, safety, and welfare, the maximum occupancy of any
residential unit shall be determined by the West Carrollton Property
Maintenance Code, the West Carrollton Fire Prevention Code, and the Ohio
Building Code.
   FENCE. An enclosure, barrier, or screen whose purpose is to physically or
visually contain certain uses and activities which are carried out on a
particular zoning lot.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION WITH DRIVE-IN.  Any building wherein the primary
occupation is concerned with such federal or state-regulated businesses as
banking, savings and loans, loan companies, and investment companies where
walk-in and drive-in services to consumers is provided on-site.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION WITHOUT DRIVE- IN. Any building wherein the primary
occupation is concerned with such federal or state-regulated businesses as
banking, savings and loans, loan companies, and investment companies
exclusively offering walk-in services to consumers. or clients on site.
   FLOOD PLAIN. The areas adjoining any river, creek, or stream which are
subject to flooding, as defined by the Miami Conservancy District.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the flood
plain that are required to carry and discharge the flood water, as defined by
the Miami Conservancy District.
   FLOOR AREA. The total horizontal area of all floors finished as usable area
including roofed porches and roofed terraces. Measurements of floor area shall
be taken to the outside of the exterior walls.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building or a portion of the principal
building used only for the storage of vehicles and incidental personal
property.
   GARAGE APARTMENT/CARRIAGE HOUSE APARTMENT.  A garage apartment is a
structure above a private garage in which provision is made for one dwelling
unit. A carriage house apartment is a garage apartment created from a historic
carriage house. A carriage house is typically a large garage structure that
predates the advent of the automobile and was designed for the storage of one
or more carriages (or buggies) with provision for one or more horse stalls.
   GOLF COURSE. A tract of land laid out with at least nine holes for playing a
game of golf and improved with tees, greens, fairways, and hazards. A golf
course includes a clubhouse, shelters, locker rooms, and related retail sales
that may include a restaurant or driving range as accessory uses.
   GROUP HOME – ADULT CARE FACILITY.  An Adult Care Facility can be either an
Adult Family Home or an Adult Group Home as separately defined. An Adult Care
Facility is a residence, facility, institution, hotel, or congregate housing
project, providing accommodations and supervision to three to sixteen unrelated
adults, at least three of whom are provided personal care services, regardless
of how the facility holds itself out to the public. An Adult Care Facility does
not include:
   (1)   A facility operated by a hospice care program.
   (2)   A nursing home, rest home, or home for the aging.
   (3)   A community alternative home.
   (4)   An alcohol and drug addiction program.
   (5)   A habilitation center.
   (6)   A licensed residential facility for the mentally ill.
   (7)   A licensed methadone treatment facility.
   (8)   A residential facility regulated/licensed under the Department of
Mental Retardation and Developmental Disabilities.
   (9)   A facility that provides personal care services to fewer than three
residents or that provides, for any number of residents, only housing,
housekeeping, laundry, meal preparation, social or recreational activities,
maintenance, security, transportation, and similar services that are not
personal care services or skilled nursing care.
   (10)   Any facility that receives funding for operating costs from the
Department of Development to provide emergency shelter housing or transitional
housing for the homeless.
   (11)   A terminal care facility for the homeless that has entered into
agreement with a hospice care program.
   (12)   A facility approved by the Veterans administration.
   (13)   An assisted living facility.
   GROUP HOME – ADULT FAMILY HOME.  An adult family home is an adult care
facility that provides accommodations to three to five unrelated adults and
supervision and personal care services to at least three of those adults. Adult
family homes are licensed in accordance with ORC Chapter 3722.
   GROUP HOME – ADULT GROUP HOME. An adult group home is an adult care facility
that provides accommodations to 6 to 16 unrelated adults, and provides
supervision and personal care services to at least three of the unrelated
adults. Adult group homes are licensed in accordance with ORC Chapter 3722.
   GROUP HOME – COMMUNITY ALTERNATIVE HOME. A community alternative home is a
residence or facility that provides accommodations, personal assistance, and
supervision for three to five unrelated individuals who have immunodeficiency
syndrom or a condition related to Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS). A
community alternative homes does not include nursing homes, rest homes, or
homes for the aging, adult foster care facilities, hospice care facilities, or
an assisted living facility.
   GROUP HOME – CONGREGATE HOUSING. A residential facility for four or more
elderly persons within which are provided living and sleeping facilities, meal
preparation, laundry services, and room cleaning. Such facilities may also
provide other services, such as transportation for routine social and medical
appointments, and counseling.
   GROUP HOME – FOSTER CARE FACILITY/CERTIFIED FAMILY FOSTER HOME. A foster
care facility, or foster home, is a family home in which any child is received
apart from his or her parents for care, supervision, or training. (Based on ORC
2151.01). A certified family foster home is foster home operated by persons
holding a certificate in force, issued under Section 5103.03 of the Revised
Code. (Based on ORC 2151.01).
   GROUP HOME – HOME FOR THE AGING.  A home that provides accommodations,
supervision, and personal care services or accommodations, supervision,
personal care services, administration of medication, and supervision of
special diets for three or more unrelated individuals who are dependent on the
services of others by reason of age and physical or mental impairment, and
personal care services and skilled nursing care for three or more unrelated
individuals.
   GROUP HOME – HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY.  A building or group of buildings
containing dwellings where the occupancy of the dwelling is restricted to
persons sixty (60) years of age or older or couples where either the husband or
wife is sixty (60) years of age or older. This does not include a development
that contains convalescent or nursing facilities.
   GROUP HOME – LIFE CARE FACILITY.  A facility for the transitional residency
of elderly and/or disabled persons, progressing from independent living in
single-family units to congregate apartment living where residents share common
meals, culminating in a full health and continuing care nursing home facility.
   GROUP HOME – MR-DD FAMILY CARE FACILITY.  A facility which provides
residential service in a residence for three to eight individuals, exclusive of
staff, who are not related to the resident householder. These individuals are
physically or mentally handicapped, disabled, or in need of adult supervision,
and are provided 24-hour services and supervision in accordance with their
needs, under the guidance of an individual or individuals approved by the
appropriate public or private health/welfare agency. This does not include
nursing homes, rest homes, or hospitals, but does include the following:
   (1)   Facilities for children or adolescents who have been adjudged
delinquent or have social or emotional problems.
   (2)   Rehabilitation centers for adolescents or adults who have been
institutionalized and released, or who have or have had mental, physical, or
social disabilities which require a group setting to facilitate the transition
to a functional member of society.
   (3)   Resident facilities for mentally retarded, mentally ill, or physically
handicapped children or adults.
   GROUP HOME – MR-DD GROUP CARE FACILITY. A facility which provides
residential service in a residence for nine to 16 individuals exclusive of
staff, who are not related to the resident householder. These individuals are
physically or mentally handicapped, disabled, in need of adult supervision, and
are provided 24-hour services and supervision in accordance with their needs,
under the guidance of an individual or individuals approved by the appropriate
public or private health/welfare agency. This does not include nursing homes,
rest homes, or hospitals, but does include the following.
   (1)   Facilities for children or adolescents who have been adjudged
delinquent or have social or emotional problems.
   (2)   Rehabilitation centers for adolescents or adults who have been
institutionalized and released, or who have had mental, physical, or social
disabilities which require a group setting to facilitate the transition to a
functional member of society.
   (3)   Resident facilities for mentally retarded, mentally ill, or physically
handicapped children or adults.
   GROUP HOME – REST HOME. A home that provides either of the following:
   (1)   Accommodations for 17 or more unrelated individuals, and supervision
and personal care services for three or more of those individuals who are
dependent on the services of others by reason of age or physical or mental
impairment; or in the case of a rest home component of a home for the aging,
accommodations to three or more individuals and supervision and personal care
services for at least three of those individuals.
   (2)   Accommodations for three or more unrelated individuals, supervision
and personal care services for at least three of those individuals who are
dependent on the services of others by reason of age or physical or mental
impairment, and supervision of special diets and of the administration of
medication to at least one of those individuals.
   GROUP HOME – NURSING HOME. A home used fo the reception and care of
individuals who by reason of illness or physical or mental impairment require
skilled nursing care or individuals who require personal care services, but not
skilled nursing care. A nursing home is licensed to provide personal care
services and skilled care services.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Montgomery County Combined Health District.
   HEDGE.  A dense growth of shrubbery, usually planted to function as a fence
or boundary.
   HOME IMPROVEMENT CENTER.  A facility more than 30,000 square feet gross
floor area involved in the sale of hardware or merchandise such as building
materials, tools, lawn and garden equipment, and durable household goods, such
as refrigerators, washing machines, and carpeting.
   HOME OCCUPATION.  Any occupation conducted in its entirety within a dwelling
unit, provided that no person other than members of the family residing on the
premises shall be engaged in the occupation and the use of the dwelling unit
for the home occupation shall be clearly incidental and subordinate to use for
residential purposes by its occupants. This land use is regulated by §
154.16.03.
   HOOKAH. A type of water pipe used to smoke tobacco or other legal non-
tobacco substances, in which air is heated by charcoal or burning embers and
passed through the tobacco or other substance to form smoke, and the smoke then
passes through a water-filled chamber where it is filtered and cooled, and then
inhaled through a tube and mouthpiece by one or more users during a smoking
session which may last from forty five (45) to sixty (60) minutes or longer. At
the end of a smoking session, the dirty water is discarded and the water
chamber is refilled for the next user(s). The term "hookah" may also be
referred to as a water pipe, narghile, argileh, goza, or hubble bubble.
   HOOKAH BAR. A smoking establishment whose business operation, whether as its
primary use or as an ancillary use, is devoted to the on-premises use of
hookahs. The term "hookah bar" includes but is not limited to establishments
variously known as hookah parlors, hookah cafes, and hookah lounges.
   INDUSTRIAL BUILDING. Any building or structure used for the purpose of
manufacturing, processing, testing, and similar industrial use, which may
generate some objectionable characteristics, such as noise, smoke, dust, or
pollution, requiring large sites, open storage, and service areas and ready
access to regional transportation.
   JUNK. Old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, rubber;
junked, dismantled, or wrecked automobiles or parts thereof; iron, steel and
other old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous materials which are not held for sale
or remelting purposes by an establishment having facilities for processing such
materials.
   JUNK YARD.  An establishment or place of business (other than an
establishment having facilities for processing iron, steel, or nonferrous scrap
and whose principal product is scrap iron and steel or nonferrous scrap for
sale for remelting purposes), which is maintained or operated for the purpose
of storing, keeping, buying or selling junk; or for the maintenance or
operation of an automobile graveyard, except an establishment or place where
automobiles, wrecked or otherwise, are held or impounded for a period not to
exceed ninety days exclusively for storage, repair, or resale without
alterations.
   KENNEL. Any structure or premises within or on which four or more canines or
felines over four months of age are kept for any reason or purpose.
   LIVING AREA. That portion of a dwelling which is devoted to ordinary human
activities such as sleeping, cooking, eating, socializing and relaxing. Living
area does not include garages, unfinished attics, or basements, utility
buildings, barns, and similar structures or spaces.
   LOADING SPACE. A space for the standing, loading, or unloading of motor
vehicles.
   LODGING – BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. A single-family, detached,
private residence which offers sleeping accommodations to lodgers in rooms for
rent in the owner or operators principal residence. While renting rooms to
lodgers, breakfast is served at no additional cost. For the purpose of this
definition, a lodger is defined as a guest who rents a room in a bed and
breakfast establishment for fewer than 30 days.
   LOT. A parcel of land defined by metes and bounds or boundary lines in a
recorded deed or on a recorded plat, fronting on a legally dedicated public
thoroughfare or public access easement. In determining lot area, no part
thereof within the limits of the proposed thoroughfare rights-of-way shall be
included.
   LOT AREA. The computed area contained within the lot lines, excluding right-
of-way.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot at the juncture of and fronting on two or more
intersecting streets.
   LOT COVERAGE. A measure of intensity of land use that represents the portion
of a site that is covered by buildings and other structures.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front and the rear lot
lines.
   LOT, INTERIOR.  A lot other than a corner lot with only one frontage on a
street.
   LOT LINES.  The property lines bounding the lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT.  The line separating the lot from a street right-of-way, or
if none exists, a public access easement.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line opposite and most distant from the front lot
line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line other than front or rear lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office
of the county recorder, or a lot or parcel described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded.
   LOT WIDTH.  The width of the lot measured at the building setback line.
   MANUFACTURING. The assembling, altering, converting, fabricating, finishing,
processing or treatment of a product.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A residential building unit or assembly of closed
construction that is fabricated in an off- site facility and constructed in
conformance with the federal construction and safety standards established by
the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development pursuant to the Manufactured
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 88 Stat. 700, 42
U.S.C.A. 5401, 5403 (commonly referred to as the “HUD Code”), and that has a
permanent label or tag affixed to it, as specified in 42 U.S.C.A. 5415,
certifying compliance with all applicable federal construction and safety
standards.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Any tract of land upon which three or more
manufactured or mobile homes used for habitation are parked, either free of
charge or for revenue purposes, and includes any roadway, building, structure,
vehicle, or enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the facilities of
the park. A manufactured home park must be licensed by the public health
council and must meet all applicable state laws, but it does not include any of
the following:
   (1)   A tract of land used solely for the storage or display for sale of
manufactured or mobile homes;
   (2)   A tract of land used solely as a camping facility for temporary
occupancy; or
   (3)   A tract of land within an area that is subject to local zoning
authority and subdivision requirements and is subdivided, and the individual
lots are for sale or sold for the purpose of installation of permanently sited
manufactured homes for habitation.
   MANUFACTURING, HEAVY. The mechanical or chemical transformation of raw
materials or substances into new products, including related accessory
buildings and uses, used in the assembling, altering, converting, fabricating,
finishing, processing, or treatment of a product. These activities or processes
may necessitate the storage of large volumes of highly flammable, toxic matter
or explosive materials needed for the manufacturing process. These activities
may involve outdoor operations as part of the manufacturing process.
   MANUFACTURING, LIGHT. The manufacture, predominantly from previously
prepared materials, of finished products or parts, including processing,
fabrication, assembly, treatment and packaging of such products, and incidental
storage, sales, and distribution of such products. These activities are
operated entirely within enclosed buildings which do not adversely affect their
surroundings, have adequate access, are served with the necessary utilities,
and are not objectionable in their operation or appearance.
   MINI-WAREHOUSES/SELF-SERVICE STORAGE FACILITIES.  A building, group of
buildings, or enclosed storage facility divided into independent, fully-
enclosed bays or compartments used to meet the self-service, personal property,
storage needs of small businesses, apartment dwellers, and other residential
uses; and may include refrigerated facilities.
   MOBILE HOME. A building unit or assembly of closed construction that is
fabricated in an off-site facility, is more than thirty-five (35) body feet in
length or, when erected on site, is three hundred twenty or more square feet
(320 sq. ft.), is built on a permanent chassis foundation, is transportable in
one (1) or more sections, and does not qualify as a manufactured home as
defined in division (C)(4) of Section 3781.06 of the Ohio Revised Code or as an
industrialized unit as defined in division (C)(3) of Section 3781.06 of the
Ohio Revised Code.
   NURSERY/GARDEN CENTER. A establishment, or portion thereof, for the retail
handling of any article, substance, or commodity related to the planting,
maintenance, or harvesting of garden plants, shrubs, trees, packaged
fertilizers, soils, chemicals, or other nursery goods and related products in
small quantities to the consumer.
   OFFICE – PROFESSIONAL OFFICE/BUSINESS OFFICE.  Any building or structure,
the use of which is limited to providing professional services such as those
provided by doctors, lawyers, accountants, architects, engineers,
photographers, insurance agents, Realtors, and similar professions, or for the
administrative aspects of a business where no goods are sold on the premises.
   OPEN SPACE.  Land developed to conservation or recreational purposes and/or
land designated by a municipality to remain undeveloped.
   PARKING, COMMERCIAL.  A parcel of land or portion thereof, used for the
parking or storage of motor vehicles as a commercial enterprise for which any
fee is charged directly to the patron independently of any other use on the
premises.
   PARKING, ON-SITE. An off-street, hard-surfaced, ground level open area, used
exclusively by the customers or persons engaged in the conduct of one
establishment on the same site of the establishment.
   PARKING, SHARED.  An off-street, hard-surfaced, ground level open area, used
exclusively by the customers or persons engaged in the conduct of two or more
establishments in the immediate vicinity of its location, or by those for whom
such establishments are conducted.
   PARKING SPACE. An off-street area available for the parking of one motor
vehicle, and having an area of not less than 171 square feet, exclusive of
passageways and driveways appurtenant thereto and giving access thereto and
having direct access to a public street, alley, or public access easement, but
being located totally outside of any street or alley right-of-way.
   PATIO ENCLOSURE. An unheated or cooled space that is constructed independent
of and separated physically by means of doors, walls or windows, from the
principal structure to which it is attached. A patio enclosure must be at least
66% open on its three outer walls, except for insect screens or window glazing.
   PERMIT, CONDITIONAL USE.  A permit issued by the Zoning Enforcement Officer
on approval by the Board of Zoning Appeals to allow a use other than a
principally permitted use to be established within the district.
   PERMIT, ZONING. A permit issued by the Zoning Enforcement Officer of the
city stating that the proposed erection, construction, enlargement, or moving
of a building or structure referred to therein complies with the provisions of
this zoning code.
   PERSON. Any natural person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, or other legal entity, private or public, whether for profit or not-
for-profit.
   PERSONAL SERVICES. Any enterprise conducted for gain which primarily offers
services to the general public such as shoe repair, barber shops, beauty
parlors, and similar activities.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT/PUD. An area of land in which a variety of housing
types are accommodated in a preplanned environment under more flexible
standards. A planned unit development typically features varied setback lines,
lot sizes, and cluster type site planning whereby maximum allowable densities
are established to permit the creation of usable areas of open space.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the city.
   PRIVATE CLUB. An association organized and operated not for profit for
persons who are bona fide members paying annual dues, which owns, hires, or
leases premises, the use of which premises is restricted to the members and
their guests. The affairs and management of the association are conducted by a
board of directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen by the members
at their annual meeting. Food, meals, and beverages may be served on the
premises, provided adequate dining room space and kitchen facilities are
available. Alcoholic beverages may be served to members and their guests,
provided the service is secondary and incidental to the promotion of some other
common objective of the organization, and further provided that the sale or
service of alcoholic beverages is in compliance with all applicable federal,
state, county, and local law.
   PRIVATE STREET. A street that is not dedicated to the city.
   PUBLIC ACCESS EASEMENT. An easement over private property granting to the
general public the right of access, and authorizing the city to regulate
traffic and enforce maintenance thereon for the purpose of protecting the
public health, safety, and general welfare.
   PUBLIC UTILITY SUBSTATION AND TRANSMISSION FACILITIES.  The use of land
outside the public right-of-way for electric substation or natural gas
transmission structures.
   RECREATION – ATHLETIC TRAINING FACILITIES.  An indoor establishment that
provides facilities and equipment for the physical development and enhancement
of skill levels of athletes participating in a recognized sport. An athletic
training facility shall not include bowling alleys, miniature golf courses,
driving ranges, pool halls or other uses of a recreational nature. Athletic
training facilities may also include pro shops selling a variety of sports
equipment and clothing, food, and beverage services, and other incidental uses
provided that these uses do not occupy more than five percent (5%) of the floor
area.
   RECREATION – COMMERCIAL RECREATION FACILITIES.  Any establishment whose main
purpose is to provide the general public with an amusing or entertaining
activity and where tickets are sold or fees are collected for the activity.
Includes, but not limited to, arcades, ball fields, billiard halls, bowling
alleys, golf driving ranges, laser tag, miniature golf courses, skating rinks,
indoor and outdoor swimming pools, movie theaters less than 50,000 s.f. gross
floor area, water slides, and other similar recreational facilities.
   RECREATION – HEALTH CLUBS.  A facility where members or nonmembers use
equipment or space for the purpose of physical exercise. Exercise equipment,
instruction programs, aerobic exercise classes, and weight control programs may
be part of the club. The facility may include running and jogging tracks, game
courts, swimming facilities, saunas, showers, massage rooms, and lockers.
Health clubs may also include pro shops selling a variety of sports equipment
and clothing. Health clubs may also include other incidental uses provided that
these uses do not occupy more than five percent (5%) of the floor area.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Shall mean and include the following:
   (1)   A travel trailer, which is a vehicular, portable structure built on a
chassis designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational,
and vacation uses, permanently identified travel trailer by the manufacturer;
   (2)   A pick-up camper, which is a structure designed primarily to be
mounted on a pick-up chassis and with sufficient equipment to render it
suitable for use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational, and vacation
uses;
   (3)   A motorized home, which is a portable dwelling designed and
constructed as an integral part of a self-mounted vehicle on wheels and
designed for travel and vacation use;
   (4)   Boats and boat trailers, including boats, floats, rafts, plus the
normal equipment to transport the same on the highway;
   (5)   Fold-out tent trailers;
   (6)   Utility trailers; and/or
   (7)   Any combination of the above.
   RESOURCE EXTRACTION. Any mining, quarrying, excavating process, storing,
separating, cleaning, or marketing of any mineral natural resource.
   RESTAURANT, SIT-DOWN. A sit-down eating establishment with a turnover rate
of 45 minutes or greater.
   RESTAURANT, FAST-FOOD.  An eating establishment with or without drive-in
facilities with a turnover of less than 45 minutes.
   REST HOME.  Refer to Group Home - Rest Home definition.
   RETAIL SALES AND SERVICES. Any local convenience retail sales and/or service
uses including but not limited to, antique shops, bakery shops, barber shops,
beauty salons, bookstores, cafes and coffee houses, clothing stores, commercial
studios, drug stores, dry cleaning and laundry pick-up stations, gifts and
stationary shops, florists, furniture stores, grocery, supermarket, or other
food stores, hardware stores, laundromats, paint stores, shoe stores, sporting
goods stores, vehicle parts shops, and the like, which supply commodities or
perform services.
   RETAIL TOBACCO STORE. A retail establishment that derives more than eighty
(80) percent of its gross revenue from the sale of cigars, cigarettes, pipes,
or other smoking devices for burning tobacco and related smoking accessories
and in which the sale of other products is merely incidental. "Retail tobacco
store" does not include a tobacco department, or section of a larger commercial
establishment, or of any establishment with a liquor permit, or of any
restaurant. In the event of a conflict between this definition and the
definition of "retail tobacco store" provided in Ohio Revised Code (O.R.C.)
Chapter 3794: Smoking Ban, the O.R.C. definition shall prevail.
   SCHOOL – BUSINESS TRADE SCHOOL/TECHNICAL SCHOOL. A specialized instructional
establishment that provides on-site training of business, commercial and/or
trade skills, such as accounting, data-processing, and computer repair.
   SCHOOL – NURSERY SCHOOL. An education facility that is primarily educational
in nature where children between the ages of three to five years receive
schooling.
   SETBACK LINE.  The closest point at which a building may be constructed in
relation to the lot line.
   SEWERS – CENTRAL SEWER/GROUP SEWER.  An approved sewage disposal system
which provides a collection network and disposal system and central sewage
treatment facility for a single development, community, or region.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture
theater, adult theater, escort agency, nude model studio, or sexual encounter
center.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS – ADULT ARCADE.  Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited wherein coin-operated, slug- operated, or for any form of
consideration, or electronically, electrically, or mechanically controlled
still or motion picture machines, projectors, video or laser disc players, or
other image-producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer
persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by the depicting or describing of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS – ADULT BOOKSTORE/ADULT NOVELTY STORE/ADULT VIDEO
STORE.  A commercial establishment that, as one of its principal purposes
offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration any one or more of the
following:
   (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter or photographs,
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, or video reproductions, slides, or
other visual representations that are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
   (2)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for use in
connection with specified sexual activities.
   (3)   A commercial establishment may have other principal business purposes
that do not involve the offering for sale or rental of material depicting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and still
be categorized as adult bookstore adult novelty store, or adult video store.
Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such commercial
establishments from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, or adult video store as long as one of its principal business purposes
is the offering for sale or rental for consideration the specified materials
that are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS – ADULT CABARET.  A nightclub, bar, restaurant,
or similar commercial establishment that regularly features:
   (1)   persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity; or
   (2)   live performances that are characterized by the exposure of specified
anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; or
   (3)   films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic
reproductions that are characterized by the depiction or description of
‘‘specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS – ADULT MOTEL.  A hotel, motel, or similar
commercial establishment that:
   (1)   offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration,
provides patrons with closed- circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions that are
characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas; and has a sign visible from the public right of way
that advertises the availability of this adult type of photographic
reproductions; or
   (2)   offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less than
ten (10) hours; or
   (3)   allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten (10) hours.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS – ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER.  A commercial
establishment where, for any form of consideration, films, motion pictures,
video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic reproductions are regularly
shown that are characterized by the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS – ADULT THEATER.  A theater, concert hall,
auditorium, or similar commercial establishment that regularly features persons
who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity, or live performances that are
characterized by the exposure of specified anatomical areas or by specified
sexual activities.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS – LICENSEE, SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. A person
in whose name a license to operate a sexually- oriented business has been
issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on the application for
a license; and in the case of an employee, a person in whose name a license has
been issued authorizing employment in a sexually-oriented business.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS – NUDE MODEL STUDIO.  Any place where a person
who appears semi-nude, in a state of nudity, or who displays specified
anatomical areas and is provided to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons who pay money
or any form of consideration. Nude model studio shall not include a proprietary
school licensed by the State of Ohio or a college, junior college, or
university supported entirely or in part by public taxation; a private college
or university that maintains and operates educational programs in which credits
are transferable to a college, junior college, or university supported entirely
or partly by taxation; or in a structure:
   (1)   that has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude or semi-nude person is available for
viewing; and
   (2)   where in order to participate in a class a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class; and
   (3)   where no more than one nude or semi-nude model is on the premises at
any one time.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS – NUDITY/STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the
human male or female genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage
with less than a fully opaque covering, the showing of the female breast with
less than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple, or the showing of
the covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS – SEMI- NUDE/SEMI-NUDE CONDITION.  The showing of
the female breast below a horizontal line across the top of the areola at its
highest point or the showing of the male or female buttocks. This definition
shall include the entire lower portion of the human female breast, but shall
not include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breast, exhibited
by a dress, blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing apparel
provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS – SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or
commercial enterprise that, as one of its principal business purposes, offers
for any form of consideration:
   (1)   physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between persons
of the opposite sex; or
   (2)   activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the same
sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nudity.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS – SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Specified
anatomical areas means:
   (1)   the human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered; or
   (2)   less than completely and opaquely-covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, or a female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS – SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.  Specified sexual
activities means any of the following:
   (1)   the fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, public
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
   (2)   sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy; or
   (3)   excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in (1) and (2) above.
   SMOKING ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment in which tobacco products are sold
for use or consumption on the premises to persons age eighteen (18) and older
as provided by state law. The term "smoking establishment" includes but is not
limited to establishments referred to as smoking, cigar, or tobacco bars or
lounges, but for the purposes of this Chapter shall not include hookah bars.
   STORY. That portion of a building included between the upper surface of any
floor and the upper surface of the floor next above, or if there is no floor
above, the portion between the floor and the ceiling above; also any portion of
a building used for human occupancy between the topmost floor and the roof. A
basement shall not be counted as a story unless more than one-half of the
basement height is above grade level at the front of the building.
   STRUCTURE. An assembly of materials which form a construction for occupancy
or use, including, but not limited to: buildings, structures, tents, platforms,
stages, observation towers, radio, television and telephone towers, water
storage tanks, trestles, piers, open sheds, shelters, fences, signs, and the
like, which shall be construed to mean the whole or parts thereof.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as walls, floors, columns, beams, or girders.
   STUDIO – INSTRUCTIONAL STUDIO/COMMERCIAL STUDIO.  A commercial operation
which includes the sale of, and/or the instruction in, arts and crafts,
sculpting, ceramics, dance, music and instruments, commercial photography, and
other similar commercial and/or instructional-oriented operations.
   SUBDIVISION, CLUSTER RESIDENTIAL. A development technique regulated by §
154.16.02 that concentrates permitted residential density in specific areas on
a site allowing remaining land to be used for recreation, open space, or the
preservation of historically- or environmentally-sensitive areas. A cluster
subdivision contains the same number of residential lots and dwelling units as
would normally be permitted with conventional subdivision design. Clustering
residential lots and increasing density on a portion of the site typically
results in the provision of between 25 and 50 percent of the site being used
for recreation, open space, or the preservation of historically- or
environmentally-sensitive areas. Cluster residential subdivisions must meet all
requirements of the West Carrollton Subdivision Regulations.
   SUBDIVISION, CONVENTIONAL RESIDENTIAL. A development technique that
typically allocates all of a site in either individual lots or public rights of
way. Conventional residential subdivisions must meet all requirements of the
West Carrollton Subdivision Regulations.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT. An increase in floor areas occupied by the business
by more than twenty-five percent (25%) as the floor areas exist on the date
this ordinance takes effect.
   TAVERN. Facilities or a building where liquors are sold to be consumed on
the premises, but not including restaurants where the principal business is
serving food. Tavern shall also include private clubs in which alcoholic
beverages are regularly sold or served as a principal activity of the
organization.
   TEMPORARY FOOD VENDOR. (EDITOR’S NOTE: This subsection was repealed by
Ordinance 3475, passed April 12, 2011.)
   TEMPORARY STRUCTURE.  Structures of a temporary nature erected for a period
not to exceed 12 months for such uses as construction offices or storage
buildings at a construction site.
   THOROUGHFARE PLAN, OFFICIAL. The official thoroughfare plan of, and as
adopted and periodically amended by the city, establishing the location and
official right-of-way widths of principal highways and streets in the city, on
file as part of the city comprehensive plan, in the office of the City Manager,
together with all amendments thereto subsequently adopted.
   TOWER. Any pole, spire, structure or combination thereof, including
supporting lines, cables, wires, braces and mast, designed and constructed
primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas, including self-
supporting lattice towers, guyed towers, or monopole towers. A communication
tower may include, but not be limited to, radio and television transmission
towers, microwave towers, common carrier towers, cellular telephone towers, and
personal communication service towers. The term tower shall not include amateur
radio operator's equipment, as licensed by the FCC.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL.  Transfer of ownership or control means
and includes any of the following:
   (1)   the sale, lease, or sub-lease of the business;
   (2)   the transfer of securities that constitute a controlling interest in
the business, whether by sale exchange, or similar means; or
   (3)   the establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
   TREE LAWN. The area between the front of the curb and the front edge of the
sidewalk where grass is typically provided.
   TRUCK, HEAVY. Heavy trucks are motor vehicles, including truck tractors and
similar vehicles designed to haul over 2.5 tons of freight or passengers, with
one or more rear axles.
   TRUCK STOP. A facility, typically on a site in excess of two acres,
providing specialized facilities for retail fueling services for heavy trucks.
The site may include related facilities including but not limited to overnight
parking, repair shops, automated washes, restaurants, and motels; all as part
of the facility.
   USE. The employment or occupation of a building, structure, or land for a
person's service, benefit, or enjoyment.
   USE-BY-RIGHT. A principal permitted use in a particular zoning district
which is permitted in that district as a legal right under the terms of this
zoning code.
   USE, CONDITIONAL. A use permitted within a district other than a principally
permitted use, requiring a conditional use permit and approval of the Board of
Zoning Appeals that all prior conditions for approval have been met.
   USE, NONCONFORMING. A legally existing use, building, or structure, which
fails to comply with the standards set forth in this code applicable to the
district in which it is located.
   USE, TEMPORARY. A use of land, building, or structures not intended to be of
permanent duration.
   UTILITY BUILDING. A detached accessory building used for the purpose of
storing equipment and materials or for housing parts of electrical, plumbing,
and heating systems for the main building.
   VARIANCE. A departure from the strict application of a provision of this
zoning code relating to bulk or area requirements for a specific parcel,
without changing the zoning ordinance or the underlying zoning of the parcel
and meeting the general intent of this zoning code. Use variances are
prohibited.
   VEHICULAR USE AREA.  All areas subject to vehicular traffic including
parking lots, access drives, loading areas and service areas.
   WALL. A boundary enclosure or separating barrier which is usually opaque.
   WAREHOUSE. Any building or structure whose use is limited to the storage,
wholesale, and distribution of manufactured products, supplies, and equipment,
excluding bulk storage of materials that are inflammable or explosive or that
present hazards or conditions commonly recognized as offensive. These
facilities are characterized by extensive warehousing, frequent heavy trucking
activity, open storage of material, or nuisances such as dust, noise, and
odors, but not involved in manufacturing or production.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT, ON-SITE.  A septic tank or similar installation on an
individual lot which utilizes an aerobic bacteriological process or equally
satisfactory process for the elimination of sewage and provides for the proper
and safe disposal of the effluent, subject to the approval of the Montgomery
County Combined Health District.
   WHOLESALE ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment that engages in the sale of goods,
merchandise, and commodities for resale by the purchaser.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS. Any cables, wires, lines, wave guides, antennas
and any other equipment or facilities associated with the transmission or
reception of communications as authorized by the FCC which a person seeks to
locate or has installed upon a tower or antenna support structure. This land
use is regulated by § 154.16.09. However, the term wireless telecommunications
facilities shall not include:
   (1)   Any satellite dish antenna regulated by § 154.16.06;
   (2)   Antennas used by amateur radio operators holding a valid amateur radio
(HAM) license issued by the Federal Communications Commission.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS – ANTENNA, FACADE MOUNTED COMMUNICATION. A
wireless telecommunication antenna mounted on the facade of a structure such as
a building, water tower, steeple, stack or existing light pole or communication
tower.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS -- CO-LOCATION. The use of a wireless
telecommunications facility by more than one wireless telecommunications
provider.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS – EQUIPMENT SHELTER.  The structure in which the
electronic receiving and relay equipment for a wireless telecommunications
facility is housed.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS – MONOPOLE.  A support structure constructed of
a single, self-supporting hollow metal tube securely anchored to a foundation.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS – SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Any building or other
structure other than a tower which can be used for location of wireless
telecommunications facilities.
   YARD. A space on the same lot with a main building, open, unoccupied, and
unobstructed by buildings or structures from the ground to the sky, except as
otherwise provided in this zoning code.
   YARD, FRONT.  A yard extending across the full width of the lot, the depth
of which shall be the least perpendicular distance between the front lot line
and the front of the main building.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the
rear-most principal building and the rear lot line, the depth of which shall be
the least distance between the rear lot line and the rear of the principal
building. Where a lot abuts on an alley, one-half the alley width may be
considered as part of the required rear yard.
   YARD, SIDE.  A yard between the main building and the side lot line,
extending from the front yard or front lot line where no front yard is
required, to the rear yard. The width of the required side yard shall be
measured horizontally and perpendicularly from the nearest point of the side
lot line toward the nearest part of the main building.
   ZONING CERTIFICATE. The document issued by the zoning enforcement officer
authorizing buildings, structures, or uses consistent with the terms of this
zoning code and for the purpose of carrying out and enforcing its provisions.
   ZONING CODE. The term zoning code shall mean this chapter, and its
amendments.
   ZONING DISTRICT. A portion of the incorporated area of the city for which
certain uniform regulations governing the use, height, area, and intensity of
use by buildings and land and open spaces about buildings are herein
established.
   ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The Zoning Enforcement Officer is that person
designated by the City Manager in accordance with the city charter and
administrative code to administer and enforce this zoning code.
   ZONING LOT. A single tract of land or portion of a tract which is located
within one zoning district. Therefor, a ZONING LOT may or may not coincide with
a lot or record. The zoning lot shall have adequate frontage on an improved
dedicated roadway of adequate width, or on a public access easement.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The term zoning ordinance shall apply to the content of
this chapter as adopted by ordinance passed.
(Ord. 1959, passed 3-23-76; Am. Ord. 2557, passed 9-9-86; Am. Ord. 2639, passed
1-26-88; Am. Ord. 2651, passed 7-12-88; Am. Ord. 2810, passed 7-23-91; Am. Ord.
2854, passed 4-14-92; Am. Ord. 2909, passed 10-5-93; Am. Ord. 2943, passed 5-
24-94; Am. Ord. 2961, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 3063, passed 9-23-97; Am. Ord.
3082, passed 2-24-98; Am. Ord. 3092, passed 6-9-98; Am. Ord. 3459, passed 11-9-
10; Am. Ord. 3567, passed 8-25-15; Am. Ord. 3582, passed 4-12-16; Am. Ord.
3591, passed 10-11-16; Am. Ord. 3592, passed 10-11-16; Am. Ord. 3677, passed 8-
25-20; Am. Ord. 3678, passed 8-25-20)
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
§ 154.03.01 TITLE AND JURISDICTIONAL LIMITS.
   (A)   For purposes of reference and citation, these regulations shall be
known as the West Carrollton, Ohio Zoning Code.
   (B)   The Zoning Code has been developed in accordance with the objectives
of the city comprehensive plan, and is designed and intended to promote the
health, safety, and general welfare of the residents of the community, to
encourage sound and orderly urban growth, and to protect existing development
through the conservation of property values.
   (C)   The entire land area within the incorporated limits of the city is
subject to the provisions specified in the Zoning Code.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.02; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.03.02 INTERPRETATION; CONFLICTS OF LAWS.
   (A)   The provisions specified in the Zoning Code shall be the minimum
requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety, and general
welfare.
   (B)   Where the provisions specified in this Zoning Code exceed the
requirements specified in other city ordinances, the provisions required in
this Zoning Code shall be followed.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.179 (A) and (B))
§ 154.03.03 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any section or provision of this Zoning Code be declared by any court
to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity
of this Zoning Code as a whole, or any part thereof other than the part so
declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
HISTORY: (Newly Proposed)
§ 154.03.04 REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with this Zoning Code are
hereby repealed to the extent necessary to give this Zoning Code full force and
effect. This Zoning Code shall become effective from and after the date of its
approval and adoption, as provided by law.
HISTORY: (Newly Proposed)
§ 154.03.05 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No building or structure shall be constructed, enlarged, converted,
structurally altered, or reconstructed, nor shall any building or structure be
moved onto a zoning lot which does not conform with the provisions specified in
this Zoning Code, except as provided in Sections
154.06.01 and
154.07.01.
   (B)   No parcel of land which is described by metes and bounds, or any other
lot shall be created that is not in conformance with the provisions specified
in this Zoning Code.
   (C)   Following the adoption of this Zoning Code, no building or structure
shall be constructed or altered so as to:
      (1)   Exceed the height, area, or yard requirements of the district in
which the building or structure is located, as specified in the Zoning Code.
      (2)   Accommodate or house more dwelling units than permitted on a lot in
the district in which the building or structure is located, as specified in the
Zoning Code.
      (3)   Be located on a permanent foundation over an easement.
   (D)   Following the adoption of this Zoning Code, no land use shall be
commenced that is not in conformance with the provisions specified in this
Zoning Code.
   (E)   Every building or structure constructed or placed on a lot in the city
shall be located entirely on a lot as defined in this chapter; and in no case
shall there be more than one principal building on a lot used for residential
purposes in the RE Residential Estate District, the R-1 Single Family
Residential District, the R-2 Single Family Residential District, or the H
Heritage Disrict.
   (F)    No yard, or part thereof, open space, off-street parking, or loading
space that is required for a building, structure, or use for the purpose of
complying with the provisions of this Zoning Code shall be considered in
meeting the same requirements similarly required for another building.
   (G)   No ingress and egress to properties from a public street shall be
permitted without proper approval from the Service Director.
HISTORY: (Formerly §154.179(C) through (F) and (H) through (J))
(Ord. 3712, passed 10-26-21)
NONCONFORMING USES
§ 154.04.01 NONCONFORMING USES.
   Nonconforming uses include buildings, structures, or uses which were
lawfully existing prior to the adoption of this zoning code, but which are
prohibited or further restricted as a result of the provisions adopted in this
zoning code.
   (A)   All nonconforming uses are considered by this zoning code to be
incompatible with the permitted uses of the zoning district in which the
nonconforming uses are located.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this zoning code shall be construed to require
any changes to be made, in the plans, construction, or designed use of any
building, structure, or use on which actual construction was lawfully begun, or
for which plans were officially approved by the city, prior to the date of
adoption of this zoning code.
      (1)   Actual construction includes projects already under construction,
whereby materials have been placed on the site and fastened together in a
permanent manner; where excavation of a site has begun; or where demolition of
a building to make way for rebuilding has begun, provided the construction,
excavation, or demolition and subsequent rebuilding shall be carried on
diligently.
      (2)   Officially approved plans shall include preliminary and final
subdivision plans which have been approved by the city, prior to the adoption
of this zoning code.
   (C)   All nonconforming buildings, structures, or uses of land which were
lawfully existing prior to the adoption of this zoning code may be maintained
and kept in repair providing no further enlargement of nonconforming buildings,
structures, or uses of land shall occur. Any nonconformity may be altered to
decrease nonconformity.
   (D)   Any nonconforming building, structure, or use of land, which is
superseded by a use which is permitted within the zoning district in which it
is located shall thereafter be in conformance with this zoning code, and the
previous nonconforming use shall not be resumed.
   (E)   A nonconforming building or structure shall not be moved, in whole or
in part, to any other location on the lot on which it is located unless it is
made to conform with all the regulations of the zoning district in which it is
located.
   (F)   Any nonconforming use of a building, or any nonconforming use of land
which has been discontinued for a period of six (6) consecutive months, shall
not be recontinued or reestablished unless it is made to conform with all of
the regulations of the zoning district in which it is located.
   (G)   Any building, structure, or use of land which is devoted to a use
which is not permitted by this zoning code in the zoning district in which it
is located shall not be extended, enlarged, constructed, restored,
reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered, except as hereinafter provided:
      (1)   To change its use to a use which is permitted and in conformance
with the regulations of this zoning code.
      (2)   All nonconforming buildings, structures, or uses of land shall not
be extended, enlarged, constructed, restored, or reconstructed following
destruction greater than 60% of the replacement value immediately prior to the
damage, unless in conformity with the provisions of this zoning code, except
that;
         (a)   Nothing in this zoning code shall prevent the total restoration
or reconstruction of any legal nonconforming single-family residence, so long
as such restoration is actually begun within one year after the date of its
damage or destruction.
         (b)   A residential nonconforming use of land located in any R or B
District, except as provided for in § 154.04.01(G)(2)(a) may be extended,
enlarged, restored, or reconstructed following destruction greater than 60%,
one time after the date of adoption of this zoning code, subject to the
approval of the Board of Zoning Appeals of the city.
   (H)   Nonconforming Lots of Record.
      (1)    The construction of a conforming structure or the conduct of a
permitted use shall be allowed on any lot of record which existed at the time
of adoption or amendment of this zoning code, and which has a lot size or
frontage less than that required for the structure or permitted use in the
zoning district in which the lot is located. Variances shall be granted in
accordance with §
154.06.01.
      (2)   Such nonconforming lots must be in separate ownership and not of
continuous frontage with other land in the same ownership at the time of
adoption or amendment of this zoning code. Otherwise, development shall be
permitted only in accordance with the regulations of the zoning district in
which such ownership is located.
      (3)   An amendment to the zoning code as referred to in this section
shall be interpreted to mean only those amendments which change the required
lot size or frontage requirements of a lot of record in question.
   (I)   Conditionally Permitted Uses Not Considered Nonconforming Uses. Any
use of a specific property which is conditionally permitted in a zoning
district in accordance with the provisions of this zoning code shall not be
considered as a nonconforming use in the zoning district in which it is
conditionally permitted. The conditionally permitted use shall be considered a
conforming use on the particular lot on which it is located.
HISTORY: (Formerly §154.182; Ord. 1990, passed 11-23-76; Am. Ord. 2306, passed
2-23-82; Am. Ord. 2739, passed 2-13-90; Am. Ord. 3441, passed 1-26-10; Am. Ord.
3677, passed 8-25-20)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.05.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The Zoning Code is designed and intended to promote the health,
safety, and general welfare of the residents of the community.
   (B)   The administration and enforcement of the Zoning Code is vested in the
following offices, boards, or commissions of the city.
      (1)   Zoning Enforcement Officer.
      (2)   City Manager.
      (3)   Planning Commission.
      (4)   City Council.
      (5)   Board of Zoning Appeals.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.07 (A-B), Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.05.02 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE CITY MANAGER.
   The duties and responsibilities of the City Manager include the appointment
of a Zoning Enforcement Officer to enforce the provisions of this Zoning Code,
as outlined in § 154.05.03.
HISTORY: (Formerly 154.09, Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.05.03 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Zoning Enforcement Officer or his
designated representative include:
   (A)   Enforce the provisions of the Zoning Code.
   (B)   Interpret the requirements of the text and map of the Zoning Code.
Where there are questions in the interpretation, the Zoning Enforcement Officer
may consult with the necessary city staff, including the Law Director, to
clarify the questions.
   (C)   Approve zoning certificates and occupancy certificates to ensure that
the proposed use is in accordance with all of the provisions of this Zoning
Code, and maintain a complete record of all the certifications. The Zoning
Enforcement Officer, upon receipt of a request for a departure from established
dimensional requirements set forth in
Chapter 153: Signs and Chapter 154: Zoning Code, may administratively grant a
waiver from said dimensional requirements only if all of the following criteria
are met:
      (1)   The request is a modest departure from the established dimensional
requirements, which shall constitute not more than ten (10) percent of the
maximum permitted dimension; and
      (2)   The adjacent property owners provide the City with a signed letter
of approval for such a waiver; and
      (3)   Such waiver will promote a more development-friendly atmosphere
while maintaining reasonable development standards and administrative
efficiency; and
      (4)   Administrative variances shall be granted in accordance with the
standards set forth in §
154.06.01. No use variances shall be granted.
   (D)   Receive and act on all applications for zoning certificates within
seven days of their date of filing. Certifications, or a written notification
and explanation of noncertification shall be issued to the applicant within
seven days of the date of filing. Failure to notify the applicant within this
time period shall constitute grounds for submitting the zoning certificate
application to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (E)   Where violations are reported or observed, determine whether the use
is in compliance with, or in violation of this Zoning Code, and where a
violation does exist, the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall notify the owner in
writing in accordance with Section
154.05.08(D).
   (F)   Maintain and keep current the permanent records required by this
Zoning Code, including but not limited to the official zoning district map,
certification of zoning, zoning inspections, and all other official zoning
actions of the City Council. The records shall be made available for use by the
City Council, the Planning Commission, the Board of Zoning Appeals, and the
general public.
   (G)   Prepare and submit reports concerning the administration and
enforcement of this Zoning Code to the City Manager on request.
HISTORY: (Formerly §154.08; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am. Ord. 2962, passed
11-22-94; Am. Ord. 3452, passed 8-12-10; Am. Ord. 3516, passed 10-23-12; Am.
Ord. 3677, passed 8-25-20)
§ 154.05.04 DUTIES AND ROLE OF THE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall be organized and shall have such powers
and duties as provided in §§ 9.01 and 9.02 of the City Charter.
   (B)   The Planning Commission and its staff shall perform the following
duties, in accordance with the Charter, Article IX, ORC §§ 713.01 through
713.05, and ORC § 713.11 (A):
      (1)   Prepare the Zoning Code.
      (2)   Interpretation. To determine if uses not specifically mentioned in
the zoning are similar to uses permitted within a district.
      (3)   Initiate the Zoning of Newly Annexed Areas. Whenever lands are
incorporated into the city through annexation, the Planning Commission shall
provide City Council with temporary and permanent zoning classification
recommendations as discussed in § 154.09.07.
      (4)   Initiate Amendments to the Zoning Code or Official Zoning Map.
Continuously review the code for the purpose of recommending official map or
text changes or amendments considered necessary and appropriate to update this
Zoning Code to promote the best interest of the public in general, only if the
amendment can be justified on one of following grounds:
         (a)   The change is in conformance with the comprehensive plan of the
city;
         (b)   There has been a substantial and significant change in area
conditions;
         (c)   There is a need for additional land in the zoning district
classifications being requested for change; or
         (d)   There is an error in the Zoning Code.
      (5)   Maintenance of Code. Maintain an up-to-date copy of the text and
map on permanent display in the municipal office.
      (6)   Maintenance of Proceedings Records. The Planning Commission shall
cause to be made a record of all its proceedings, setting forth its reasons for
its decisions. The record, immediately following the Planning Commission's
decision shall be filed in the offices of the Planning Commission, and shall be
open to public inspection.
      (7)   Conditional Uses. The Planning Commission may hear and decide on,
in accordance with the provisions of this Zoning Code, applications for a
conditional use permit as well as applications for any variance submitted with
the application for a conditional use permit as set forth in §
154.07.01(B)(5).
      (8)   Site Plan Review. The Planning Commission may review, define, and
approve site plans and access management requirements for substantial
developments that warrant public review.
      (9)   Public hearings. The Planning Commission may require and hold
public hearings concerning matters that come before the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Appeals Procedure. Appeals from the Planning Commission in their
decision on variances, conditional uses and related matters shall be to the
county court of common pleas, as provided by the state statutes.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly §154.10 (A-B), Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82;
Am. Ord. 3677, passed 8-25-20)
§ 154.05.05 DUTIES AND ROLE OF THE CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall:
   (A)   Appoint five members to the Planning Commission in accordance with the
Charter, Article IX, § 9.01;
   (B)   Appoint five members to the Board of Zoning Appeals in accordance with
the Charter, Article IX, § 9.03;
   (C)   Initiate, or act on changes or amendments to the Zoning Code or
Official Zoning Map recommended by the Planning Commission. The Council shall
act favorably upon the changes or amendments in accordance with the procedures
specified in the Charter and the Ohio Revised Code, only if the request can be
justified on one of the following grounds:
      (1)   The change is in conformance with the comprehensive plan of the
city;
      (2)   There has been a substantial and significant change in area
conditions;
      (3)   There is a need for additional land in the zoning district
classification being requested for a change;
      (4)   There is an error in the Zoning Code. HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.11,
Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.05.06 DUTIES AND ROLE OF THE BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   Membership. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall consist of five members
who are residents of the city, and hold no other municipal office or
employment. The members shall be selected by the City Council for overlapping
terms of five years, in accordance with the Charter, Article IX, § 9.03. The
Board of Zoning Appeals shall adopt its own rules and elect its own officers
annually.
   (B)   Official Action. Three Board members shall constitute a quorum, and
must be present to conduct Board business, to hold public hearings, to vote on
requests for variances, interpretations, and decisions on appeals. When a
request for a variance, interpretations, and decisions on appeals does not
receive three votes for approval or disapproval, the request may be brought
before the Board only when there are at least four Board members in attendance.
(Ord. 2453, passed 8-14-84)
   (C)   (1)   Administration appeals. To hear and decide appeals where it is
alleged that there is an error in any interpretation, judgment, determination
or decision made by the Zoning Enforcement Officer in the administration or
enforcement of the provisions of this Zoning Code.
         (a)   Such appeal shall be made within ten (10) business days after
the decision by filing with the Board of Zoning Appeals a notice of appeal on
the forms provided for such purpose. The appeal shall:
            (i)   Cite specific provisions of this Zoning Code that are alleged
to have been interpreted in error or the specific decisions or action being
appealed and the grounds on which the appeal is being made.
            (ii)    Include the required fee as set forth in Chapter 37,
General Fee Schedule.
            (iii)   Include such other information as the City of West
Carrollton or any of its Boards, Commissions, Departments or Officers may
reasonably require; and
            (iv)   Include a statement as to why the appellant has standing to
pursue the appeal from the administrative action by a statement of the way in
which the administrative action adversely affects the appellant.
         (b)   Upon receipt of an appeal, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall set
a time and place for a public hearing on the appeal and shall provide the
applicant written notice thereof. The hearing shall be commenced within a
reasonable time after an appeal has been filed. Notice of the hearing shall be
given not less than twenty (20) days prior to the date of the public hearing by
publishing notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. The Zoning
Inspector shall transmit to the Board of Zoning Appeals the materials
constituting the record upon which the appeal is based.
         (c)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall not be required to hear any
case which has been the subject of an appeal during the previous twelve (12)
months, unless substantial new evidence, critical to the case, becomes
available.
         (d)   An appeal shall stay any further administrative action in
regards to the action being appealed, except that when the appeal is of the
issuance of a notice of violation pursuant to Section
154.05.08(D) involving illegal construction, such construction shall cease
until a decision on the appeal is rendered by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 3452, passed 7-13-10.)
   (D)   The Board shall cause to be made a record of all its proceedings,
setting forth its reasons for its decisions. The record, immediately following
the Board's decision shall be filed in the offices of the Board and Planning
Commission, and shall be open to public inspection.
   (E)   Appeals Procedure. Appeals from the Board of Appeals in their decision
on administrative error; variances; interpretations, and related matters shall
be to the county court of common pleas, as provided by the state statutes.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.12, Ord. 1980, passed 7-13-76; Am.
Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am. Ord. 2410, passed 9-27-83; Am. Ord. 2766, passed
9-11-90; Am. Ord. 2816, passed 8-13-91; Former paragraph § 154.12(C)(3)
deletion proposed)
§ 154.05.07 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Zoning Certificate.
      (1)   Requirements. No person shall locate, erect, construct,
reconstruct, enlarge, or structurally alter any building or structure within
the city, without having the required zoning certificate. The certificate shall
not be issued unless the plans for the proposed building or structure fully
comply with all the provisions of this Zoning Code. Any zoning certificate
issued in conflict with the provisions of this chapter shall be null and void.
      (2)   Application. Application for a zoning certificate shall be made in
writing to the Zoning Enforcement Officer. Each written application shall
include the following:
         (a)   Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant;
         (b)   Two copies of a scale drawing showing the actual shape and
dimensions of the lot to be built on, or to be changed in its use, in whole or
in part;
         (c)   The location of the lot, existing zoning and land use, including
the immediately surrounding area;
         (d)   The location, size, and height of any building or structure to
be erected or altered;
         (e)   The existing or intended use of each building, structure, or use
of land where no buildings are included; and
         (f)   The number of families or dwelling units each building is
designed to accommodate, if applicable.
      (3)   Utility buildings. Zoning certificates shall be required for all
utility buildings, including those accessory to a dwelling.
      (4)   Time limit. If a zoning certificate is issued for the purpose of
constructing a new building or structure and the construction is not begun
within a 180 day time period, then the zoning certificate shall be null and
void.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.13(B); Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am. Ord. 2940,
passed 4-26-94; Am. Ord. 2962, passed 11-22-94; Am. Res. 29-97, passed 8-12-97)
   (B)   Occupancy Certificate.
      (1)   Requirements. No building, structure, or addition thereto
constructed, built, moved, remodeled, or reconstructed shall be occupied or
used for any purpose; and no vacant land shall be used for any purpose; and no
use of any land, building, or structure shall be changed to any other use
unless an occupancy certificate shall first have been obtained from the Zoning
Enforcement Officer certifying that the proposed use or occupancy complies with
all the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Every application for a zoning certificate shall be deemed to be an
application for an occupancy certificate also. Every application for an
occupancy certificate for a new or changed use of land, building, or structures
where no zoning certificate is required shall be filed with the Zoning
Enforcement Officer and be in such form and contain such information as the
Zoning Enforcement Officer shall provide by general rule.
      (3)   Issuance of occupancy certificate.
         (a)   No occupancy certificate for a building or structure or addition
thereto, constructed, built, moved, remodeled, or reconstructed shall be issued
until such work has been completed and the premises inspected and certified by
the Zoning Enforcement Officer to be in full and complete compliance with the
plans and specifications upon which the zoning certificate for the property was
issued. No occupancy certificate for a new use of any building, structure or
land shall be issued until the premises have been inspected and certified by
the Zoning Enforcement Officer to be in full and complete compliance with all
the applicable regulations for the zoning district in which it is located.
However, the Zoning Enforcement Officer may issue a certificate of occupancy to
an applicant who has not, or whose predecessor or predecessors in interest has
not obtained a certificate of occupancy for a change in use of any land,
building, or structure as required by law at the time such change in use
occurred, provided the Zoning Administrator determines that such applicant, or
his predecessor or predecessors in interest, would have been entitled to the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy if the application then required by law
would have been made.
         (b)   Pending the issuance of a permanent occupancy certificate, a
temporary occupancy certificate may be issued to be valid for a period not to
exceed 180 days from its date pending the completion of any addition or during
partial occupancy of the premises. An occupancy certificate shall be issued, or
written notice shall be given to the applicant stating the reasons why a
certificate cannot be issued, within 15 days after the receipt of an
application therefore, or after the Zoning Enforcement Officer is notified in
writing that the structures or premises are ready for inspection for an
occupancy certificate.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.13(C); Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am. Ord. 2940,
passed 4-26-94; Am. Ord. 2962, passed 11-22-94; Am. Res. 29-97, passed 8-12-97)
§ 154.05.08 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Enforcement. This Zoning Code shall be enforced by the City Manager,
and the Zoning Enforcement Officer as may be designated by the City Manager.
   (B)   Revocation of Certification of Zoning. Any certification of zoning
issued upon a false and substantive statement shall be void. Whenever the fact
of the false statement shall be established to the satisfaction of the City
Manager, the certification shall be revoked by notice in writing to be
delivered to the holder of the void certification on the premises concerned, or
in some conspicuous place on the premises. Any person who shall proceed
thereafter with the work or use without having obtained new certification of
zoning, in accordance with this Zoning Code, shall be deemed guilty of
violation thereof.
   (C)   Violation. In case any building is, or is proposed to be located,
erected, constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, changed, maintained, or used, or
any land is, or is proposed to be used in violation of this Zoning Code, the
City Council, the Law Director, and Zoning Enforcement Officer, or any
neighboring property owner who would be damaged by the violation, in addition
to other remedies provided by law, may institute injunction, mandamus,
abatement, or any other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent, enjoin,
abate, or remove the unlawful location, erection, construction, reconstruction,
enlargement, change, maintenance, or use.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.14 (Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am. Ord. 2962, passed
11-22-94))
   (D)   Notice of Zoning Violation.
      (1)   Whenever the Zoning Enforcement Officer, inspector or designate
thereof determines that there is a violation of the Zoning Code, a notice of
violation shall be issued. Such notice shall:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   Identify the violation;
         (c)   Include a statement of the reason or reasons why it is being
issued and refer to the sections of this Zoning Code being violated; and
         (d)   State the time by which the violation shall be corrected.
      (2)   Service of notice of violation shall be as follows:
         (a)   Method of service. Such legal notice shall be deemed to be
properly served if a copy thereof is (a) delivered to the owner, occupant or
agent in person (b) sent by certified or registered mail addressed to the owner
at the last known mailing address with return receipt requested or (c) posted
in a conspicuous place in or about the premises affected.
         (b)   If the registered or certified mail envelope is returned with an
endorsement showing that the service was unclaimed, the notice may be served by
ordinary mail to the owner's last known mailing address. This mailing shall be
evidenced by a certificate of mailing, and service shall be deemed complete on
that date of mailing.
         (c)   When service is perfected by posting notice on or about the
premises affected, such posting shall be evidenced by a photograph and a
notarized certificate of service. Such notice, photograph, and certificate of
service shall be sent by ordinary mail to the last known mailing address as
evidenced by a certificate of mailing and service shall be deemed completed on
that date.
         (d)   If service of written notice is unable to be perfected by any of
the hereinbefore methods, the City Manager or his/her designee shall cause the
notice to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city, once
each week for two consecutive weeks, and service shall be deemed completed on
the second date of publication.
   (E)   Entry and Inspection of Property. 
      (1)   Authorization. An inspector designated by the City Manager is
authorized to make inspections of property and structures located within the
City of West Carrollton in order to safeguard the public health, safety and
welfare, and may enter, examine and survey at any reasonable hour such
properties for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this Zoning Code.
      (2)   Permission. Prior to seeking entry to a property or structure for
the purposes of making inspections necessary to enforce the provisions of this
Zoning Code, the inspector or designate thereof shall attempt to obtain the
owner's or occupant's permission to inspect. If such permission is denied or is
unable to be obtained, the enforcement officer shall request assistance from
the Law Director in securing a valid search warrant prior to inspection. For
exterior property violations clearly visible from the public right of way, or
for properties previously declared a public nuisance and/or determined by a
code official to be a public nuisance, permission need not be obtained.
      (3)   Liability. No officer, agent or employee of the City of West
Carrollton shall be personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons
or property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of
duties under this Zoning Code. (Ord. 3452, passed 7- 13-10.)
§ 154.05.09 PENALTY; EQUITABLE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this
Zoning Code, including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with grants of variances or conditional uses, shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor of the first degree, and on conviction thereof, shall be fined
not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months, or both, and, in
addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each and every
day during which the illegal location, erection, construction, reconstruction,
enlargement, change, maintenance, or use continues may be deemed a separate
offense. The owner or tenant of any building, structure, premises or part
thereof, and any architect, builder, contractor, agent or other person who
commits, participates in, assists in or maintains such violation, may each be
found guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties provided in this
section.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this section shall prevent the Municipality from
taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.999 (Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82); highlight indicates
newly proposed language)
VARIANCES
§ 154.06.01 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Purpose. The Board of Zoning Appeals may authorize upon appeal, a
variance from strict application of the provisions of this Zoning Code in
accordance with the standards set forth in this section. Use variances are
prohibited.
   (B)   Public Hearing and Notice. A public hearing shall be held by the Board
of Zoning Appeals within 30 days after the receipt of an application for an
appeal or variance from the Zoning Enforcement Officer or an applicant. Notice
thereof shall be given to the parties in interest not less than 20 days prior
to the date of the public hearing by first class mail and by publishing notice
in one or more newspapers of general circulation in the city. The notice shall
set forth the time and place of the public hearing, and the nature of the
proposed variance. Additional notice may also be given by such other means as
the granting authority deems appropriate, such as by posting notice on or near
the parcel of land involved or at places which will be conspicuous to the
neighboring properties and to the public. Failure of any person, other than the
applicant, to receive notice of any hearing or public hearing shall in no way
affect the validity of the action taken. The public hearing must be open to the
public and testimony should be taken under oath and subject to cross-
examination.
   (C)   Written Application. The requested variance must be in writing,
submitted by the filing deadline established in the Board of Zoning Appeals
Schedule of Meetings, and contain the following information which demonstrates
that the variance request meets the requirements of §
154.06.01:
      (1)   A fully completed Variance Application Form provided by the city,
signed by the property owner or the owner's designated agent, and properly
notarized;
      (2)   If necessary, a fully completed Agent Authorization Form provided
by the city, signed by the property owner, and properly notarized;
      (3)   The owner names, addresses, and parcel numbers of all property
located within 200 feet of the property in question, along with a corresponding
map showing these parcels;
      (4)   A site plan drawn to scale indicating the dimensions of all
existing and proposed structures and their distances to each property line, as
well as photographs of the premises;
      (5)   For sign variances, a site plan and elevations drawn to scale
showing the location, size, height, setback, color scheme, method of lighting,
and method of support of the proposed sign;
      (6)   Any other information or materials necessary to support the
application;
      (7)   Payment of an application fee as established in
Chapter 37: General Fee Schedule.
   (D)   Board of Zoning Appeals Review. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall base
its review of a variance application upon the complete application, upon any
staff report, and upon any relevant and credible public testimony and evidence
presented during the adjudication hearing. If the Board of Zoning Appeals finds
that the information provided is insufficient to make a determination, it may
suspend its review until sufficient information has been provided.
      (1)   Burden of Proof. The applicant shall be required to present by
preponderance of reliable, probative, and substantial testimony and evidence
that supports the applicant's request for a variance.
      (2)   Decision Standards. The Board of Zoning Appeals will consider the
effect of the request on the public health, safely and welfare. Variances shall
be granted only upon a determination that practical difficulties exist with
respect to the property in question that would render strict application of the
Zoning Code unreasonable and that substantial justice is done. This
determination shall be made without regard to the existence of variances and
nonconformities on other land, sites, or structures not presently under
consideration. In determining whether practical difficulties exist sufficient
to warrant a variance, the Board shall consider and weigh the following
factors:
         (a)   Whether the property in question will yield reasonable return or
whether there can be any beneficial use of the property without the variance;
         (b)   Whether the variance is substantial;
         (c)   Whether the essential character of the neighborhood would be
substantially altered or whether adjoining properties would suffer a
substantial detriment as a result of the variance;
         (d)   Whether the variance would adversely affect the delivery of
governmental services (i.e. water, sewer, garbage);
         (e)   Whether the property owner purchased the property with the
knowledge of the zoning restriction;
         (f)   Whether the property owners' predicament feasibly can be
obviated through some method other than a variance;
         (g)   Whether the spirit and intent behind the zoning requirement
would be observed and substantial justice done by granting the variance; and
         (h)   Any other relevant factor.
   (E)   Action by Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (1)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall grant, grant with conditions, or
deny a variance application as presented and shall clearly state the findings
upon which its decision is based.
      (2)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall base its decision only upon the
Decision Standards in this chapter. The Board may prescribe any additional
conditions and safeguards that it deems necessary to ensure that the objectives
of the regulations or provisions to which the variance applies will be met. Any
violation of such conditions and safeguards, when they have been made a part of
the terms under which the variance has been granted, shall be deemed a
punishable violation under this Zoning Code.
   (F)   Following disapproval by the Board of Appeals of an application or
request for variance from the literal interpretation of this Zoning Code, no
subsequent application requesting the same variance shall be filed by any
applicant, whether the person, firm, or corporation, until the expiration of 12
months after the original or subsequent disapproval.
   (G)   Issuance of Permits.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall issue permits to permit the action
for which a variance was sought after the Board of Appeals grants a variance.
Construction permits shall not be issued unless the plans substantially conform
to those upon which a variance was granted. Any action that exceeds a granted
variance shall constitute a violation of the Zoning Code.
      (2)   Approval of a variance shall expire if the applicant or owner fails
to obtain the required zoning certificate or building permits within 180 days
from the date of approval by the Board. The Board may grant a maximum of two
extensions not exceeding 180 days each, upon written application. The Board
shall not consider or grant any extension when a zoning map or text amendment
has been enacted, subsequent to the approval of the original variance, which
would affect the property subject to the variance.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly §154.12(C)(2); Am. Ord. 3677, passed 8-25-
20)
CONDITIONAL USE REGULATIONS
§ 154.07.01 CONDITIONAL USE REGULATIONS.
   A conditional use permit shall be required for all uses listed as
conditionally permitted uses in this Zoning Code. The purpose of a conditional
use permit is to allow a proper integration into the city of uses which may
only be suitable in specific locations within certain zoning districts, or only
if the uses are designed or laid out in a particular manner on the site to
safeguard both the property rights of all individuals and the health, safety,
and general welfare of the community.
   (A)   Contents of Conditional Use Permit Application.
      All conditionally permitted uses included in this Zoning Code must be
approved by the Planning Commission by filing an application with the Zoning
Enforcement Officer. Application for a conditional use permit shall be made by
the property owner, or agent thereof, to the Planning Commission on a form
prescribed by the city. Such application at a minimum shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   Name, address and phone number of the applicant;
      (2)   Legal description of the property;
      (3)   Zoning district;
      (4)   Description of proposed conditional use;
      (5)   Maps and drawings of the proposed site for the conditional use
showing the location of all buildings, parking and loading areas, streets and
traffic accesses, open spaces, refuse and service areas, utilities, signs,
yards, landscaping features, and such other information as the Plan Commission
may require. When a proposed site is adjacent to residential properties, a
photo simulation of the proposed facility from effected residential properties
and public right-of-ways shall be taken at designated locations.
      (6)   A narrative statement discussing the compatibility of the proposed
use with the existing uses of adjacent properties and with the comprehensive
plan, to include an evaluation of the effects on adjoining properties of such
elements as traffic circulation, noise, glare, odor, fumes, and vibration, and
such other information as the Plan Commission may require. At a minimum this
narrative shall address the ability of the application to meet each of the
applicable criteria contained in paragraph (B) of this section.
      (7)   A list containing the names and mailing addresses of all owners of
property within 200 feet of the property in question;
      (8)   A fee as established by Ordinance.
   (B)   General Standards for All Conditional Uses.
      The Planning Commission shall not grant a conditional use permit and
require the subsequent issuance of a conditional use permit by the Zoning
Enforcement Officer unless it shall, in each specific case, review the
particular facts and circumstances of each proposed use and make specific
findings of fact directly based upon the particular evidence presented to it.
      (1)   Expansion of Existing Conditionally Permitted Uses.
         (a)   Any existing lawful use which is considered as a conditionally
permitted use by this Zoning Code, which is located in a zoning district in
which the use is conditionally permitted, shall be considered as a conforming
use.
         (b)   Any expansion of a conditionally permitted use involving the
enlargement of buildings, structures, or land area devoted to the conditional
uses, shall be subject to the procedures outlined in this section.
      (2)   Findings. In considering an application for a conditional use
permit, the Planning Commission must make an affirmative finding that the
proposed conditional use:
         (a)   Is in fact to be located in a district wherein the use may be
conditionally permitted;
         (b)   Facilitates and encourages the general objectives, or any
specific objective, of the City’s comprehensive plan and/or Zoning Code, and
does not adversely affect the envisioned predominant character or purposes in
the District;
         (c)   Serves to create a well-planned, visually appealing development
which will be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained so as to be
harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended
character of the general vicinity and that such use will not change the
essential character of the same area;
         (d)   Will not be an adverse influence or present hazardous or
disturbing impacts upon any existing or future abutting or neighboring uses;
         (e)   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials,
equipment and conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons,
property, or the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic,
noise, smoke, fumes, glare, or odors. (See § 154.11.03);
         (f)   Is designed to maximize the public interest and private benefit
in a balanced manner.
         (g)   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and
services such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage
structures, refuse disposal, water and sewer, and schools; or that the persons
or agencies responsible for the establishment of the proposed use shall be able
to provide adequately any such services;
         (h)   Provides adequate ingress/egress to the development, and relates
effectively to the existing street system in terms of safety and ease of access
with vehicular approaches to the property so designed as not to create an
interference with traffic on surrounding public thoroughfares;
         (i)   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost
for public facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the economic
welfare of the community;
         (j)   Will not result in the destruction, loss, or damage of a
natural, scenic, or historic feature of major importance.
      (3)   Substantially Similar Use. Where a specific use is proposed that is
not listed or provided for in this Zoning Code, the Planning Commission may
make a determination that the proposed use is substantially similar to a
permitted or conditional use listed in this Zoning Code. Upon making a
determination that a proposed use is a substantially similar use, the Planning
Commission shall notify the Council of its decision and shall include in its
written findings the reasoning upon which the decision is based. Unless the
decision is rejected within thirty (30) days of its receipt by the Council,
such substantially similar use determination by the Planning Commission shall
become effective. A substantially similar use shall then be permitted in the
same manner and under the same conditions and procedures as the use is
permitted to which it has been found to be substantially similar. The Zoning
Enforcement Officer shall maintain as a public record a listing of all uses
about which the determination of substantial similarity was made and shall
consult this record in the process of issuing future permits. If the Planning
Commission determines that a proposed use is not substantially similar, remedy
may be sought by the appellant through the submission of an application for
amendment as prescribed in § 154.08.01. The following standards shall be
considered by the Planning Commission when making a determination that a use is
substantially similar to a permitted or conditional use within a specific
district:
         (a)   The compatibility of the proposed use with the general use
classification system as specified in this Zoning Code.
         (b)   The nature, predominant characteristics, and intensity of the
proposed use in relation to those uses specified by this Zoning Code as being
permitted, or conditionally permitted, in that district.
         (c)   The size, dimensional requirements, parking requirements,
traffic generation potential, and other regulatory considerations normally
associated with uses as specified in this Zoning Code.
         (d)   The site development plan proposed by an applicant, while not
strictly in accord with the regulations applying within the District, meets
public purposes, provides public protection, and conforms with the objectives
and principles of the comprehensive plan and Zoning Code.
         (e)   In the particular circumstances of the case, strict application
of a particular regulation or regulations is not necessary for the
accomplishment of the public purposes or the provision of public protection, at
the time or in the future.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.36.5; Ord. 3105. Passed 11-10-98.)
      (4)   Supplementary Conditions and Safeguards. When considering an
application for a conditional use permit, the Board shall impose such other
conditions and limitations as may be deemed necessary to carry out the purpose
and intent of the Zoning Code, and to preserve and protect the general public
health, safety, and welfare.
      (5)   Joint Variance Application. If an application for a variance has
been filed in conjunction with an application for a conditional use, the
Planning Commission may make its decision on the application for a conditional
use pending upon a decision by the Board of Zoning Appeals to grant a variance
for such conditional use in accordance with § 154.06.01, or the Planning
Commission may make a decision upon both applications for the variance and the
conditional use, serving in the capacity of the Board of Zoning Appeals for
administrative expedience in accordance with R.C. 713.11 (A) and in accordance
with § 154.05.04.
      (6)   Public Hearing. A public hearing must be held by the Planning
Commission in considering an application for a conditional use permit. Notice
thereof shall be given not less than 20 days prior to the date of public
hearing by posting notice on or near the parcel of land involved at places
which will be conspicuous to the neighboring properties and to the public, or
by publishing notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. Notice
may also be given by any other means as the granting authority deems
appropriate. Failure of any person, other than the applicant, to receive notice
of any hearing or public hearing shall in no way affect the validity of the
action taken.
      (7)   Action by the Planning Commission. Within thirty (30) days after
the date of the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall take one of the
following actions:
         (a)   Approve issuance of the conditional use permit by making an
affirmative finding in writing that the proposed conditional use is to be
located in a district wherein such use may be conditionally permitted, that all
conditions for approval of such use in such district have been met, and that
such use will neither result in significant negative impacts upon nor conflict
with surrounding uses. Such written finding may also prescribe supplementary
conditions and safeguards. Upon making an affirmative finding, the Planning
Commission shall direct the Zoning Enforcement Officer to issue a conditional
use permit for such use which shall list all conditions and safeguards
specified by the Planning Commission for approval.
         (b)   Make a written finding that the application is deficient in
information or is in need of modification and is being returned to the
applicant. Such finding shall specify the information and/or modifications
which are deemed necessary.
         (c)   If an application is disapproved by the Planning Commission, the
applicant may seek relief through the Court of Common Pleas. Appeals from the
Planning Commission shall be made in the manner specified by the state
statutes.
      (8)   Expiration of Conditional Use Permit. Approval of a conditional use
permit shall expire if the applicant or owner fails to obtain the required
zoning certificate or building permits within 180 days from the date of
approval by the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission may grant a
maximum of two extensions not exceeding 180 days each, upon written
application. The Board shall not consider or grant any extension when a zoning
map or text amendment has been enacted, subsequent to the approval of the
original conditional use permit, which would affect the property subject to the
conditional use permit.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.181)
AMENDMENTS TO THE ZONING CODE
§ 154.08.01 PROCEDURE FOR AMENDMENTS.
   The City Council may by ordinance, after receipt of a recommendation thereon
from the Planning Commission, and following the required public hearing held by
City Council, amend, supplement, change, or repeal the regulations,
restrictions, or zoning district boundaries or classifications of property
whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare, provisions of the
comprehensive plan, or good zoning practices require.
   (A)   A request to amend this Zoning Code may be initiated as follows:
      (1)   By adoption of a motion by the Planning Commission;
      (2)   By adoption of a resolution by the City Council requesting the
Planning Commission to make a review and recommendation;
      (3)   By the filing of an application by the owner of the property to be
changed or affected by the proposed amendment.
   (B)   Applications by property owners for amendments shall contain such
information as may be required by the Planning Commission, City Council, and
City Manager for thorough review of each proposed amendment.
   (C)   Following the adoption and transfer of a resolution to the Planning
Commission by the City Council, the adoption of a motion by the Planning
Commission, or the filing of an application by the property owner, the Planning
Commission may advertise and hold a public hearing on the proposed amendment,
or supplement. If so:
      (1)   Notice shall be advertised by at least one publication in a
newspaper of general circulation within the city, at least 20 days prior to the
date of the public hearing. The notice shall state the date, place, and time of
the hearing, and shall include the places and times that the proposed amendment
and supporting documentation may be examined. Notice may also be given not less
than ten days prior to the date of the public hearing by posting notice on or
near the parcel of land involved at places which will be conspicuous to the
neighboring properties and to the public, or by such other means as the
granting authority deems appropriate.
      (2)   If the proposed amendment or supplement intends to rezone or
redistrict ten or less parcels of land, as listed on the tax duplicate, written
notice of the public hearing shall be mailed by the Planning Commission by
first class mail at least 20 days before the date of the public hearing to the
owners of the property within 200 feet from the parcel, to the addresses of the
owners appearing on the County Auditor's current tax list or the treasurer's
mailing list and to such other list or lists that may be specified by the city.
The failure of delivery of the notice shall not invalidate the public hearing.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall, by resolution, recommend the approval,
approval with modification, or disapproval of the application, and the
secretary of the Planning Commission shall transmit the resolution to the City
Council. On receipt of the recommendation of the Planning Commission, the City
Council shall advertise and hold a public hearing on the proposed amendment or
supplement.
      (1)   Notice shall be advertised by at least one publication in a
newspaper of general circulation within the city, at least 30 days prior to the
date of the public hearing. The notice shall state the date, place, and time of
the hearing. Notice may also be given not less than 20 days prior to the date
of the public hearing by posting notice on or near the parcel of land involved
at places which will be conspicuous to the neighboring properties and to the
public, or by such other means as the granting authority deems appropriate,
      (2)   If the proposed amendment or supplement intends to rezone or
redistrict ten or less parcels of land, as listed on the tax duplicate, written
notice of the public hearing shall be mailed by the Clerk of Council, by first
class mail at least 20 days before the date of the public hearing to the owners
of the property within and contiguous to and directly across the street from
the parcel, to the addresses of the owners appearing on the County Auditor's
current tax list or the treasurer's mailing list and to such other list or
lists that may be specified by the city. The failure of delivery of the notice
shall not invalidate the public hearing.
      (3)   During the 30-day period prior to the public hearing, the text
describing the proposed amendment, together with the plans and supporting
documentation, shall be on file and available for review by the public, in the
office of the City Manager.
      (4)   At or following the public hearing, the City Council shall act on
the proposed amendment.
   (E)   When the recommendation of the Planning Commission is for disapproval
of the proposed change or amendment, an affirmative vote of at least a majority
plus one member of the City Council present shall be required for approval of
the ordinance authorizing the change or amendment.
   (F)   Following disapproval by City Council of an application to amend the
Zoning Code or map, no subsequent application requesting the same amendment
shall be filed by any applicant, whether the same person, firm, or corporation,
until the expiration of 12 months after the original or subsequent disapproval.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.13(A); Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am.
Ord. 2940, passed 4-26-94; Am. Ord. 2962, passed 11-22-94; Am. Res. 29-97,
passed 8-12-97)
§ 154.08.02 ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS.
   Within fifteen (15) days of the effective date of any change of a zoning
district classification or boundary, the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall amend
the Official Zoning Map to reflect such change, and shall note the effective
date of such change, together with appropriate reference to the ordinance
authorizing such change. The Official Zoning Map shall then be signed by the
Mayor and attested to by the Clerk.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed)
ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS AND OFFICIAL ZONING MAP
§ 154.09.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this Article is to establish zoning districts in order to
realize the general purposes set forth in § 154.03.01(B), to provide for
orderly growth and development, and to protect the property rights of all
individuals by assuring the compatibility of uses and practices within
districts.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed)
§ 154.09.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The following zoning districts are hereby established for the City of
West Carrollton, Ohio:
      (1)   LD Limited Development District;
      (2)   A Agricultural District
      (3)   RE Residential Estate District;
      (4)   R-1 Single-Family Residential District;
      (5)   R-2 Single-Family Residential District;
      (6)   R-4 Multiple-Family Residential District;
      (7)   R-5 Multiple-Family Residential District;
      (8)   R-PUD Residential Planned Unit Development District;
      (9)   R-MHP Manufactured/Mobile Home Park District;
      (10)   O-R Office-Residential District;
      (11)   O Office District;
      (12)   B-1 Convenience Commercial District;
      (13)   B-2 General Commercial District;
      (14)   Olde Downtown District;
      (15)   CC Alexander Square City Center District
      (16)   M-1 Business Park District;
      (17)   M-2 Manufacturing District;
      (18)   PUD Planned Unit Development District
      (19)   H Heritage Overlay District
   (B)   Nothing in this Article shall be construed to require the actual
location of any district on the Official Zoning Map, as it is the intent of
this Zoning Code to provide the flexibility in its administration to allow
future expansion and emendation.
   (C)   The districts designated on the official zoning district map and
described in this Code are established, and no buildings or structures shall be
erected or altered, nor any land within the corporate limits used in a manner
prohibited by the regulations herein prescribed, except the following which are
not subject to zoning districts:
      (1)   Federal, state, or municipal governmental buildings or functions.
      (2)   Public schools.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.04; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am.
Ord. 2522, passed 8-27-85; Am. Ord. 2695, passed 6-13-89)
§ 154.09.03 ZONING DISTRICT MAP.
   The districts established in § 154.09.02, as shown on the Official Zoning
Map, which, together with all data, references, explanatory material and
notations thereon, are an integral part of the Zoning Code and are hereby
officially adopted as part of this Zoning Code and hereby incorporated by
reference herein, thereby having the same force and effect as if herein fully
described in writing. The Official Zoning Map shall control whenever there is
an apparent conflict between the district boundaries as shown on the Map and
the description(s) as found in the text of this Zoning Code or any other
ordinance.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.03; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.09.04 ZONING MAP LEGEND.
   There shall be provided on the Official Zoning Map a legend which shall list
the name of each zoning district and indicate the symbol for that district. A
color, combination of colors, or black and white patterns may be used in place
of symbols to identify the respective zoning districts in such legend. In
addition to such legend, the Official Zoning Map shall provide sufficient space
for compliance with § 154.08.02 and § 154.09.05.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed)
§ 154.09.05 IDENTIFICATION OF OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   The Official Zoning map shall be properly identified by the signature of the
Mayor, as attested by the City Clerk, and bearing the official seal. The Map
shall be maintained by the Zoning Enforcement Officer, and shall remain on file
in the office of the Director of the Planning and Economic Development
Department. The Official Zoning map shall be a reproducible document, and
copies shall be made available to the public upon request and upon payment of a
fee as established by ordinance.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed)
§ 154.09.06 INTERPRETATION OF ZONING DISTRICTS; MAP AND TEXT.
   The following rules shall be used to determine the precise location of any
zoning district boundary unless such boundary is specifically indicated on the
Official Zoning Map:
   (A)   Where zoning district boundaries are delineated to follow, or follow
approximately property lines, the property lines shall be considered as the
district boundaries.
   (B)   Where zoning district boundaries are shown to follow, or approximately
follow the centerline or right-of-way lines of highways, streets, or alleys,
these centerlines or right-of-way lines shall be considered as the district
boundaries.
   (C)   Where zoning district boundaries are shown to follow a railroad line,
the middle of the main tracks of such railroad line shall be considered as the
district boundaries.
   (D)   Where zoning district boundaries are shown to follow or approximately
follow the limits of any municipal corporation, the corporation limits shall be
considered the district boundaries.
   (E)   Whenever any highway, street, alley, railroad, or other public right-
of-way is officially abandoned by the city, the adjoining zoning district
boundary shall be automatically extended to the centerline of the abandoned
right-of-way, and the area shall become subject to the regulations of the
zoning district in which it is located. In the event that only a portion of a
right-of-way is abandoned, the adjoining zoning district boundary, or the
district boundary nearest the abandoned area shall be extended.
   (F)   Where zoning district boundaries are delineated to be parallel, or
parallel approximately to centerlines or right-of-way lines, the district
boundary shall be considered as being parallel and at such distance as shall be
indicated on the Official Zoning Map. When no dimension is shown on the map,
the distance shall be determined in accordance with the scale shown on the
official zoning district map.
   (G)   In interpreting the text, the particular shall control the general.
   (H)   The phrase used for includes arranged for, designed for, intended for,
maintained for, or occupied for.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.05; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.09.07 ZONING UPON ANNEXATION.
   The following regulations shall apply to any areas annexed to the City:
   (A)   If any lots, tracts, or lands are not subject to zoning at the time of
their annexation, they shall be classified into whichever districts established
by this Zoning Code most closely resembles the existing uses at the time of the
annexation. Such classification shall be recommended to Council by the Planning
Commission and shall be approved by Council resolution.
   (B)   Whenever lands which are subject to zoning at the time of their
annexation into the City, the zoning regulations then in effect in these
annexed areas shall remain in full force and shall be enforced by the
appropriate county or township officials having jurisdiction, until the city
shall officially determine and adopt new zoning for the territory upon
recommendation by the Planning Commission.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.10; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
   (C)   With respect to any annexation, the Planning Commission shall within
90 days conduct a public hearing on the matter of permanent zoning
classification following the Zoning Code amendment process outlined in §
154.08.01.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed)
L-D LIMITED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
§ 154.10.001 L-D LIMITED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   The purpose of the Limited Development District is:
   (A)   To protect storm water channels so that they will be able to carry
abnormal flows of water in time of high water and flooding;
   (B)   To designate areas which are not suitable for intensive community
development due to flooding by preventing the encroachment into these areas by
uses, buildings, and structures which will materially obstruct the flow of
water, thereby increasing the magnitude of flooding;
   (C)   To preserve from development areas that will be needed for expansion
and improvement of groundwater drainage; and
   (D)   To prevent the loss of life and excessive property damage.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.159; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.002 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   Provided that no principal building or structure is located in an area
subject to flooding in such a way as to materially obstruct the flow of water
as determined by the Miami Conservancy District, the following uses are
permitted in this district:
   (A)   Accessory building and structures as regulated by § 154.16.01.
   (B)   Accessory uses as regulated by § 154.16.01.
   (C)   Dwelling – Expansion of residential dwellings constructed prior to
September 27, 1988 to an extent not exceeding 50% of the market value of the
principal structure before the expansion is started.
   (D)   Farming and agricultural production, and related farm uses.
   (E)   Parking, On-site.
   (F)   Parkland – Community parkland and public open space.
   (G)   Recreation – River-related recreational uses such as boat livery, boat
rentals, and other such similar nature uses.
   (H)   Recreation – Private, noncommercial areas and facilities.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.160)
§ 154.10.003 CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES.
   Provided that no principal building or structure is located in an area
subject to flooding in such a way as to materially obstruct the flow of water
as determined by the Miami Conservancy District, and the general conditions and
supplemental requirements in this Chapter, the following uses are conditionally
permitted in this district:
   (A)   Contractor office
   (B)   Contractor shop
   (C)   Contractor storage yard
   (D)   Parking, Commercial.
   (E)   Parking, Shared.
   (F)   Public utility substation and transmission facilities.
   (G)   Resource and mineral extractions.
   (H)   Wireless telecommunications facility.
   (I)   New dwellings, provided they are not located in the Special Flood
Hazard Area as indicated on the FEMA Flood Rate Insurance Maps for Montgomery
County, Ohio.
(Ord. 3309. Passed 11-8-05; Ord. 3592. Passed 10-11-16.)
§ 154.10.004 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The provisions of § 154.16.01 and other regulations in this Chapter shall
apply to the location and maintenance of accessory uses, buildings, and related
structures.
‘HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.161.1; Ord. 2909, passed 10-5-93; Am. Ord. 3063,
passed 9-23-97)
§ 154.10.005 MINIMUM ZONING LOT SIZE.
   Regulations concerning minimum lot size are not applicable in this district.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.162; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.006 MINIMUM FRONTAGE.
   Regulations concerning minimum frontage are not applicable in this district.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.163; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.007 MAXIMUM HEIGHT.
   Regulations concerning maximum height are not applicable in this district.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.164; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.008 MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   Regulations concerning minimum yard requirements are not applicable in this
district.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.165; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.009 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking or loading shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions specified in § 154.12.01.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.166; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.010 SIGNS.
   Refer to Chapter 153.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.167; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.011 OTHER REGULATIONS.
   Refer to Sections
154.11.01 through
154.16.09.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.168; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
A AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
§ 154.10.012 A AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   The purpose of the A Agricultural District is to provide for low density
residential development compatible with certain farm uses
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.169; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.013 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Accessory building and structures as regulated by §
154.16.01.
   (B)   Accessory uses as regulated by §
154.16.01.
   (C)   Day care facility – Type B family day care home.
   (C)   Dwelling – Single-family, detached
   (D)   Farming and agricultural production, and related farm uses.
   (H)   Home occupations subject to the conditions of §
154.16.03.
   (I)   Parking, On-site.
   (J)   Parkland – Community parkland and public open space.
   (K)   Subdivision, Conventional residential.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.170)
§ 154.10.014 CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES.
   Subject to general conditions and supplemental requirements in this Chapter.
   (A)   Cemeteries
   (B)   Churches and other similar places of religious worship.
   (C)   Lodging – Bed and breakfast establishment.
   (D)   Public utility substation and transmission facilities.
   (E)   Recreation – Golf course.
   (F)   Recreation – Private, noncommercial areas and facilities.
   (G)   School – Private school/Primary school/Intermediate school/Secondary
school.
   (H)   Subdivision, Cluster residential.
   (I)   Wireless telecommunications facility.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.151)
§ 154.10.015 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The provisions of § 154.16.01 and other regulations in this Chapter shall
apply to the location and maintenance of accessory uses, buildings, and related
structures.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.171.1; Ord. 2909, passed 10-5-93)
§ 154.10.016 MINIMUM ZONING LOT SIZE.
   Single-family housing and other permitted uses, two acres.
      Other permitted uses: none
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.172)
§ 154.10.017 MINIMUM FRONTAGE.
   Single-family housing and other permitted uses, 150 feet.
      Other permitted uses: none
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.173)
§ 154.10.018 MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum Front Yard.
      (1)   Residential Uses: 50 feet.
      (2)   Other Permitted Uses: none.
      (3)   Corner Lots.
         (a)   On all corner lots, all yards which front on streets shall be
considered front yards, and as such shall meet the minimum front yard
requirements specified in § 154.10.027(A)(1) or (2).
         (b)   On all lots having frontage on two streets which do not
intersect, the minimum front yard setback specified in § 154.10.027(A)(1) or
(2) shall apply to each yard with street frontage.
   (B)   Minimum for Each Side Yard. Residential and other permitted uses, 25
feet.
   (C)   Minimum Rear Yard.
      (1)   Residential uses: 50 feet.
      (2)   Other Permitted Uses: none.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.175)
§ 154.10.019 MAXIMUM AND MINIMUM HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Maximum Height: 35 feet or 2-1/2 stories.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.174; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.020 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking or loading shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions specified in § 154.12.01.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.176; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.020.01 SIGNS.
   Refer to Chapter 153.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.177; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.020.02 OTHER REGULATIONS.
   Refer to Sections
154.11.01 through
154.16.09. HISTORY: (Formerly § ; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
RE RESIDENTIAL ESTATE DISTRICT
§ 154.10.021 RE RESIDENTIAL ESTATE DISTRICT.
   The purpose of the RE Residential Estate District is to maintain existing
development patterns, and reserve certain land areas for single-family detached
dwellings at low densities.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.149; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.022 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Accessory building and structures as regulated by § 154.16.01.
   (B)   Accessory uses as regulated by § 154.16.01.
   (C)   Day care facility – Type B family day care home.
   (D)   Dwelling – Single-family, detached
   (E)   Group home – Adult family home.
   (F)   Group home – Community alternative home.
   (G)   Group home – Foster care facility/Certified family foster home.
   (H)   Group home – MR/DD family care facility.
   (I)   Home occupations subject to the conditions of § 154.16.03.
   (J)   Parking, On-site.
   (K)   Parkland – Community parkland and public open space.
   (L)   Subdivision, Conventional residential.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.150)
§ 154.10.023 CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES.
   Subject to general conditions and supplemental requirements in this Chapter.
   (A)   Churches and other similar places of religious worship.
   (B)   Public utility substation and transmission facilities.
   (C)   Recreation – Private, noncommercial areas and facilities.
   (D)   School – Private school/Primary school/Intermediate school/Secondary
school.
   (E)   Wireless telecommunications facility.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.151)
154.10.024 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The provisions of § 154.16.01 and other regulations in this Chapter shall
apply to the location and maintenance of accessory uses, buildings, and related
structures.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.151.1; Ord. 2909, passed 10-5-93)
§ 154.10.025 MINIMUM ZONING LOT SIZE.
   Single-family housing and other permitted uses, one acre.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.152)
§ 154.10.026 MINIMUM FRONTAGE.
   Single-family housing and other permitted uses, 150 feet.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.153)
§ 154.10.027 MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum Front Yard.
      (1)   Residential and Other Permitted Uses: 50 feet.
      (2)   Residential uses in which the average existing front yard setback
on two or more lots located within 100 feet and in the same block as the lot in
question is either less or greater than the minimum front yard requirements
specified in § 154.10.027(A)(1), the front yard requirement shall be modified
as follows:
         (a)   The modified front yard shall not be less than the average
setback of the existing front yards of the two lots immediately adjacent to the
lot in question, or if a corner lot, then the same as the setback on the
immediately adjacent lot.
         (b)   In no case shall any front yard be modified to require less than
ten feet.
      (3)   Corner Lots.
         (a)   On all corner lots, all yards which front on streets shall be
considered front yards, and as such shall meet the minimum front yard
requirements specified in § 154.10.027(A)(1) or (2).
         (b)   On all lots having frontage on two streets which do not
intersect, the minimum front yard setback specified in § 154.10.027(A)(1) or
(2) shall apply to each yard with street frontage.
   (B)   Minimum for Each Side Yard. Residential and other permitted uses, 25
feet.
   (C)   Minimum Rear Yard. Residential and other permitted uses, 50 feet.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.155)
§ 154.10.028 MAXIMUM HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Maximum Height: 35 feet or 2-1/2 stories.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.154; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.029 REQUIRED MINIMUM DWELLING SIZE.
   The minimum dwelling size shall be governed by the West Carrollton Property
Maintenance Code (Chapter 158), which seeks to prevent overcrowding through
minimum space requirements based on occupancy limitations.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.06)
§ 154.10.030 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking or loading shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions specified in § 154.12.01.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.156; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.031 SIGNS.
   Refer to Chapter 153.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.157; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.032 OTHER REGULATIONS.   
   Refer to Sections
154.11.01 through
154.16.09. HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.158; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.10.041 R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   The purpose of the R-1 Residential District is to designate and reserve
certain land areas for single-family detached dwellings at low densities.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.139; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.042 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Accessory building and structures as regulated by § 154.16.01.
   (B)   Accessory uses as regulated by § 154.16.01.
   (C)   Day care facility – Type B family day care home.
   (D)   Dwelling – Single-family, detached.
   (E)   Group home – Adult family home.
   (F)   Group home – Community alternative home.
   (G)   Group home – Foster care facility/Certified family foster home.
   (H)   Group home – MR/DD family care facility.
   (I)   Home occupations subject to the conditions of § 154.16.03.
   (J)   Parking, On-site.
   (K)   Parkland – Community parkland and public open space.
   (L)   Subdivision, Conventional residential.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.140)
§ 154.10.043 CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES.
   Subject to general conditions and supplemental requirements in this Chapter.
   (A)   Cemeteries.
   (B)   Churches and other similar places of religious worship.
   (C)   Lodging – Bed and breakfast establishment.
   (D)   Public utility substation and transmission facilities.
   (E)   Recreation – Golf course.
   (F)   Recreation – Private, noncommercial areas and facilities.
   (G)   School – Private school/Primary school/Intermediate school/Secondary
school.
   (H)   Subdivision, Cluster residential.
   (I)   Wireless telecommunications facility.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.141)
§ 154.10.044 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The provisions of § 154.16.01 and other regulations in this Chapter shall
apply to the location and maintenance of accessory uses, buildings, and related
structures.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.141.1; Ord. 2909, passed 10-5-93)
§ 154.10.045 MINIMUM ZONING LOT SIZE.
   (A)   Single-family Dwellings: 10,000 square feet where public water and
sanitary sewers are available and 20,000 square feet where they are not
available.
   (B)   Schools: 12 acres.
   (C)   Other Permitted Uses: one (1) acre.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.142; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.046 MINIMUM FRONTAGE.
   (A)   Single-family Dwellings: 80 feet where public water and sanitary
sewers are available and 100 feet where they are not available.
   (B)   Schools: 150 feet.
   (C)   Other Permitted Uses: 150 feet.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.143; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.047 MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum Front Yard.
      (1)   Residential Uses: 35 feet.
      (2)   Residential uses in which the average existing front yard setback
on two or more lots located within 100 feet and in the same block as the lot in
question is either less or greater than the minimum front yard requirements
specified in § 154.10.047(A)(1), the front yard requirement shall be modified
as follows:
         1.   The modified front yard shall not be less than the average
setback of the existing front yards of the two lots immediately adjacent to the
lot in question, or if a corner lot, then the same as the setback on the
immediately adjacent lot.
         2.   In no case shall any front yard be modified to require less than
ten feet.
      (3)   Schools: 150 feet.
      (4)   Other Permitted Uses: 40 feet.
      (5)   Corner Lots.
         (a)   On all corner lots, all yards which front on streets shall be
considered front yards, and as such shall meet the minimum front yard
requirements specified in § 154.10.047(A)(1) to (4).
         (b)   On all lots having frontage on two streets which do not
intersect, the minimum front yard setback specified in § 154.10.047(A)(1) to
(4) shall apply to each yard with street frontage.
   (B)   Minimum for Each Side Yard.
      (1)   Residential Uses: 8 feet.
      (2)   Schools: 75 feet.
      (3)   Other Permitted Uses: 20 feet.
   (C)   Minimum Rear yard.
      (1)   Residential Uses: 40 feet. Any one-story section of a single-family
residence may project not more than ten feet into the required rear yard.
      (2)   Schools: 200 feet.
      (3)   Other Permitted Uses: 50 feet. HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly §
154.145 (A) to (D))
§ 154.10.048 MAXIMUM HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   Maximum Height: 35 feet or 2-1/2 stories.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.144; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.049 REQUIRED MINIMUM DWELLING SIZE.
   The minimum dwelling size shall be governed by the West Carrollton Property
Maintenance Code (Chapter 158), which seeks to prevent overcrowding through
minimum space requirements based on occupancy limitations.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.06)
§ 154.10.050 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking or loading shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions specified in § 154.12.01.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.146; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.051 SIGNS.
   Refer to Chapter 153.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.147; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.052 OTHER REGULATIONS.
   Refer to Sections
 154.11.01 through
154.16.09. HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.148; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
R-2 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.10.061 R-2 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   The purpose of the R-2 Residential District is to designate and reserve
certain land areas for single-family detached dwellings at low-medium
densities.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.129; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.062 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Accessory building and structures as regulated by § 154.16.01.
   (B)   Accessory uses as regulated by § 154.16.01.
   (C)   Day care facility – Type B family day care home.
   (D)   Dwelling – Single-family, detached.
   (E)   Group home – Adult family home.
   (F)   Group home – Community alternative home.
   (G)   Group home – Foster care facility/Certified family foster home.
   (H)   Group home – MR/DD family care facility.
   (I)   Home occupations subject to the conditions of § 154.16.03.
   (J)   Parking, On-site.
   (K)   Parkland – Community parkland and public open space.
   (L)   Subdivision, Conventional residential.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.130)
§ 154.10.063 CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES.
   Subject to general conditions and supplemental requirements in this Chapter.
   (A)   Cemeteries.
   (B)   Churches and other similar places of religious worship.
   (C)   Dwelling – Single-family, zero-lot line.
   (D)   Lodging – Bed and breakfast establishment.
   (E)   Public utility substation and transmission facilities.
   (F)   Recreation – Golf course.
   (G)   Recreation – Private, noncommercial areas and facilities.
   (H)   School – Nursery school.
   (I)   School – Private school/Primary school/Intermediate school/Secondary
school.
   (J)   Subdivision, Cluster residential.
   (K)   Wireless telecommunications facility.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.131)
§ 154.10.064 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The provisions of § 154.16.01 and other regulations in this Chapter shall
apply to the location and maintenance of accessory uses, buildings, and related
structures.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.131.1; Ord. 2909, passed 10-5-93)
§ 154.10.065 MINIMUM ZONING LOT SIZE.
   (A)   Single-family Dwellings: 7,500 square feet where public water and
sanitary sewers are available and 20,000 square feet where they are not
available.
   (B)   Other Permitted Uses: one acre.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.132; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.066 MINIMUM FRONTAGE.
   (A)   Single-family Dwellings: 60 feet.
   (B)   Other Permitted Uses: 150 feet.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.133; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.067 MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum front yard.
      (1)   Residential Uses: 25 feet.
      (2)   Residential Uses Fronting on a Major Street: 35 feet.
      (3)   Residential uses in which the average existing front yard setback
on two or more lots located within 100 feet and in the same block as the lot in
question is either less or greater than the minimum front yard requirements
specified in § 154.10.067(A)(1) or (2), the front yard requirement shall be
modified as follows:
         (a)   The modified front yard shall not be less than the average
setback of the existing front yards of the two lots immediately adjacent to the
lot in question, or if a corner lot, then the same as the setback on the
immediately adjacent lot.
         (b)   In no case shall any front yard be modified to require less than
ten feet.
      (4)   Other Permitted Uses: 40 feet.
      (5)   Corner Lots.
         (a)   On all corner lots, all yards which front on streets shall be
considered front yards, and as such shall meet the minimum front yard
requirements specified in § 154.10.067(A)(1) to (4).
         (b)   On all lots having frontage on two streets which do not
intersect, the minimum front yard setback specified in § 154.10.067(A)(1) to
(4) shall apply to each yard with street frontage.
   (B)   Minimum for each side yard.
      (1)   Residential Uses: 8 feet.
      (2)   Residential uses in which the average existing side yard setback on
two or more lots located within 100 feet and in the same block as the lot in
question is less than 8 feet, then the side yard setback requirement shall be
modified as follows:
         (a)   The modified side yard shall not be less than the average
setback of the existing side yards of the two lots immediately adjacent to the
lot in question, or if a corner lot, then the same as the setback on the
immediately adjacent lot.
         (b)   In no case shall any side yard be modified to require less than
four (4) feet.
      (3)   Other Permitted Uses: 20 feet.
   (C)   Minimum rear yard.
      (1)   Residential Uses, 40 feet. Any one-story section of a single-family
residence may project not more than ten feet into the required rear yard.
      (2)   Other Permitted Uses: 50 feet.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.135 (A) to (D))
§ 154.10.068 MAXIMUM AND MINIMUM HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   Maximum Height: 35 feet or 2-1/2 stories.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.134; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.069 REQUIRED MINIMUM DWELLING SIZE.
   The minimum dwelling size shall be governed by the West Carrollton Property
Maintenance Code (Chapter 158), which seeks to prevent overcrowding through
minimum space requirements based on occupancy limitations.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.06)
§ 154.10.070 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking or loading shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions specified in § 154.12.01.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.136; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.071 SIGNS.
   Refer to Chapter 153.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.137; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.072 OTHER REGULATIONS.
   Refer to Sections
154.11.01 through
 154.16.09. HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.138; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
R-3 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
(intentionally left blank)
R-4 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.10.081 R-4 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   The purpose of the R-4 Multiple-Family Residential District is to designate
and reserve certain land areas for medium-high density residential development,
where both public water and sanitary sewer service are available, consisting
primarily of multiple-family residential units.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.109; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.082 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Accessory building and structures as regulated by § 154.16.01.
   (B)   Accessory uses as regulated by § 154.16.01.
   (C)   Day care facility – Type B family day care home.
   (D)   Dwelling – Multiple-family.
   (E)   Dwelling – Row.
   (F)   Dwelling – Single-family, detached.
   (G)   Dwelling – Two-family.
   (H)   Group home – Adult family home.
   (I)   Group home – Community alternative home.
   (J)   Group home – Foster care facility/Certified family foster home.
   (K)   Group home – MR/DD family care facility.
   (L)   Home occupations subject to the conditions of § 154.16.03.
   (M)   Parking, On-site.
   (N)   Parkland – Community parkland and public open space.
   (O)   Subdivision, Conventional residential.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.110)
§ 154.10.083 CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES.
   Subject to general conditions and supplemental requirements in this Chapter.
   (A)   Cemeteries.
   (B)   Churches and other similar places of religious worship.
   (C)   Day care facility – Child day care center.
   (D)   Day care facility – Type A family day care home.
   (E)   Dwelling – Single-family, zero-lot line.
   (F)   Group home – Adult group home.
   (G)   Group home – Congregate housing.
   (H)   Group home – Home for the aging.
   (I)   Group home – Life care facility.
   (J)   Group home – MR/DD group care facility.
   (K)   Group home – Nursing home.
   (L)   Group home – Nursing homes for convalescent patients.
   (M)   Group home – Rest home.
   (N)   Lodging – Bed and breakfast establishment.
   (O)   Public utility substation and transmission facilities.
   (P)   Recreation – Golf course.
   (Q)   Recreation – Private, noncommercial areas and facilities.
   (R)   School – Nursery school.
   (S)   School – Private school/Primary school/Intermediate school/Secondary
school.
   (T)   Subdivision, Cluster residential.
   (U)   Wireless telecommunications facility.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.111)
§ 154.10.084 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The provisions of § 154.16.01 and other regulations in this Chapter shall
apply to the location and maintenance of accessory uses, buildings, and related
structures.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.111.1; Ord. 2909, passed 10-5-93)
§ 154.10.085 MINIMUM ZONING LOT SIZE.
   No lot in the R-4 District shall have a size less than the following:
   (A)   Single-family Dwellings: 7,500 square feet where public water and
sanitary sewers are available and 20,000 square feet where sanitary sewers are
not available.
   (B)   Two-family Dwellings: 6,000 square feet per dwelling unit where public
water and sanitary sewers are available. No two-family dwellings shall be
permitted where public water and sanitary sewers are not available.
   (C)   Multiple-family dwellings: 4,000 square feet per dwelling unit where
public water and sanitary sewers are available. No multiple-family dwellings
shall be permitted where public water and sanitary sewers are not available.
   (D)   Other Permitted Uses: one acre.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.112; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.086 MINIMUM FRONTAGE.
   (A)   Single-family Dwellings: 60 feet.
   (B)   Two-family Dwellings: 85 feet.
   (C)   Multiple-family Housing: 90 feet.
   (D)   Other Permitted Uses: 150 feet.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.113; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.087 MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum Front Yard.
      (1)   Residential uses: 25 feet.
      (2)   Residential Uses Fronting on a Major Street: 35 feet.
      (3)   Residential uses in which the average existing front yard setback
on two or more lots located within 100 feet and in the same block as the lot in
question is either less or greater than the minimum front yard requirements
specified in § 154.10.087(A)(1) or (2), the front yard requirement shall be
modified as follows:
         1.   The modified front yard shall not be less than the average
setback of the existing front yards of the two lots immediately adjacent to the
lot in question, or if a corner lot, then the same as the setback on the
immediately adjacent lot.
         2.   In no case shall any front yard be modified to require less than
ten feet.
      (4)   Other permitted uses, 40 feet.
      (5)   Corner Lots.
         (a)   On all corner lots, all yards which front on streets shall be
considered front yards, and as such shall meet the minimum front yard
requirements specified in § 154.10.087(A)(1) to (4).
         (b)   On all lots having frontage on two streets which do not
intersect, the minimum front yard setback specified in § 154.10.087(A)(1) to
(4) shall apply to each yard with street frontage.
   (B)   Minimum for Each Side Yard.
      (1)   Residential Uses: 8 feet or ½ the height of the structure,
whichever is greater.
      (2)   Other Permitted Uses: 20 feet.
   (C)   Minimum Rear Yard.
      (1)   Residential Uses: 40 feet. Any one- story section of a single-
family residence may project not more than ten feet into the required rear
yard.
      (2)   Other permitted uses: 50 feet.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.115)
§ 154.10.088 MAXIMUM AND MINIMUM HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Maximum Height: 45 feet or 4 stories.
   (B)   Minimum Height: one (1) story, unless a home is to be constructed on a
vacant lot and there are dwellings on either side with 2 or more stories, then
construction on the infill lot shall be a minimum of two (2) stories.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.114; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.089 REQUIRED MINIMUM DWELLING SIZE.
   The minimum dwelling size shall be governed by the West Carrollton Property
Maintenance Code (Chapter 158), which seeks to prevent overcrowding through
minimum space requirements based on occupancy limitations.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.06)
§ 154.10.090 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking or loading shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions specified in § 154.12.01.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.116; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.091 SIGNS.
   Refer to Sign Ordinance - Chapter 153 of the Code of Ordinances.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.117; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.092 OTHER REGULATIONS.
   Refer to Sections
154.11.01 through
154.16.09. HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.118; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.093 ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN STANDARDS.
   New buildings and major facade alterations shall be constructed in
accordance with the specifications of Section
154.17.01, Architectural Design Standards. (Ord. 3419. Passed 4-28-09.)
R-5 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.10.101 R-5 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   The purpose of the R-5 Multiple-Family Residential District is to designate
and reserve certain land areas for medium-high density residential development.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.99; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am. Ord. 2491, passed
2-26-85)
§ 154.10.102 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Accessory building and structures as regulated by § 154.16.01.
   (B)   Accessory uses as regulated by § 154.16.01.
   (C)   Day care facility – Type B family day care home.
   (D)   Dwelling – Multiple-family.
   (E)   Dwelling – Row.
   (F)   Dwelling – Single-family, detached.
   (G)   Dwelling – Two-family.
   (H)   Group home – Adult family home.
   (I)   Group home – Community alternative home.
   (J)   Group home – Foster care facility/Certified family foster home.
   (K)   Group home – MR/DD family care facility.
   (L)   Home occupations subject to the conditions of § 154.16.03.
   (M)   Parking, On-site.
   (N)   Parkland – Community parkland and public open space.
   (P)   Subdivision, Conventional residential.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.100)
§ 154.10.103 CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES.
   Subject to general conditions and supplemental requirements in this Chapter.
   (A)   Churches and other similar places of religious worship.
   (B)   Day care facility – Child day care center.
   (C)   Day care facility – Type A family day care home.
   (D)   Dwelling – Single-family, zero-lot line.
   (E)   Dwelling – Two-family.
   (F)   Group home – Adult group home.
   (G)   Group home – Congregate housing.
   (H)   Group home – Home for the aging.
   (I)   Group home – Life care facility.
   (J)   Group home – MR/DD group care facility.
   (K)   Group home – Nursing home.
   (L)   Group home – Nursing homes for convalescent patients.
   (M)   Group home – Rest home.
   (N)   Lodging – Bed and breakfast establishment.
   (O)   Public utility substation and transmission facilities.
   (P)   Recreation – Golf course.
   (Q)   Recreation – Private, noncommercial areas and facilities.
   (R)   School – Nursery school.
   (S)   School – Private school/Primary school/Intermediate school/Secondary
school.
   (T)   Subdivision, Cluster residential.
   (U)   Wireless telecommunications facility.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.101)
§ 154.10.104 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The provisions of § 154.16.01 and other regulations in this Chapter shall
apply to the location and maintenance of accessory uses, buildings, and related
structures.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.101.1; Ord. 2909, passed 10-5-93)
§ 154.10.105 MINIMUM ZONING LOT SIZE.
   (A)   Single-family Dwellings: 7,500 square feet where public water and
sanitary sewers are available and 20,000 square feet where sanitary sewers are
not available.
   (B)   Two-family Dwellings: 5,000 square feet per dwelling unit where public
water and sanitary sewers are available. No multiple-family dwellings shall be
permitted where public water and sanitary sewers are not available.
   (C)   Multiple-family Dwellings: 3,000 square feet per dwelling unit where
public water and sanitary sewers are available. No multiple-family dwellings
shall be permitted where public water and sanitary sewers are not available.
   (D)   Other Permitted Uses: one acre.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.102; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.106 MINIMUM FRONTAGE.
   (A)   Single-family Dwellings: 60 feet.
   (B)   Two-family Dwellings: 80 feet.
   (C)   Multiple-family Housing: 80 feet.
   (D)   Other Principal Permitted Uses: 100 feet.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.103; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.107 MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum Front yard.
      (1)   Residential Uses: 25 feet.
      (2)   Residential Uses Fronting on a Major Street:  35 feet.
      (3)   Residential uses in which the average existing front yard setback
on two or more lots located within 100 feet and in the same block as the lot in
question is either less or greater than the minimum front yard requirements
specified in § 154.10.107(A)(1) or (2), the front yard requirement shall be
modified as follows:
         1.   The modified front yard shall not be less than the average
setback of the existing front yards of the two lots immediately adjacent to the
lot in question, or if a corner lot, then the same as the setback on the
immediately adjacent lot.
         2.   In no case shall any front yard be modified to require less than
ten feet.
      (4)   Other Permitted Uses: 40 feet.
      (3)   Corner Lots.
         (a)   On all corner lots, all yards which front on streets shall be
considered front yards, and as such shall meet the minimum front yard
requirements specified in § 154.10.107(A)(1) to (4).
         (b)   On all lots having frontage on two streets which do not
intersect, the minimum front yard setback specified in § 154.10.1077(A)(1) to
(4) shall apply to each yard with street frontage.
   (B)   Minimum for Each Side Yard.
      (1)   Residential Uses: 8 feet, or ½ height of the building, whichever is
greater.
      (2)   Other Permitted Uses: 20 feet.
   (C)   Minimum Rear Yard.
      (1)   Residential Uses: 35 feet.
      (2)   Other permitted uses: 50 feet.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.105; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.108 MAXIMUM AND MINIMUM HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Maximum Height: 45 feet or 4 stories.
   (B)   Minimum Height: one (1) story, unless a home is to be constructed on a
vacant lot and there are dwellings on either side with 2 or more stories, then
construction on the infill lot shall be a minimum of two (2) stories.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.114; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.109 REQUIRED MINIMUM DWELLING SIZE.
   The minimum dwelling size shall be governed by the West Carrollton Property
Maintenance Code (Chapter 158), which seeks to prevent overcrowding through
minimum space requirements based on occupancy limitations.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.06)
§ 154.10.110 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking or loading shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions specified in § 154.12.01.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.106; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.111 SIGNS.
   Refer to Chapter 153.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.107; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.112 OTHER REGULATIONS.
   Refer to Sections
154.11.01 through
154.16.09.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.108; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.113 ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN STANDARDS.
   New buildings and major facade alterations shall be constructed in
accordance with the specifications of Section
154.17.01, Architectural Design Standards. (Ord. 3419. Passed 4-28-09.)
R-PUD RESIDENTIAL PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
§ 154.10.121 R-PUD PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   The purpose of the R-PUD District is to provide a permissive voluntary
alternative zoning procedure for residential development and housing. Under
this procedure, a tract of land under unified ownership may be planned and
developed as a unit in accordance with an approved preliminary PUD plan and
subsequent detailed final PUD plans. A mixture of housing types, densities and
architectural design is encouraged.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.88; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.122 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Accessory building and structures as regulated by § 154.16.01.
   (B)   Accessory uses as regulated by § 154.16.01.
   (C)   Churches and other similar places of religious worship.
   (D)   Day care facility – Type B family day care home.
   (E)   Dwelling – Multiple-family.
   (F)   Dwelling – Row.
   (G)   Dwelling – Single-family, detached.
   (H)   Dwelling – Single-family, zero-lot line.
   (I)   Dwelling – Two-family.
   (J)   Group home – Adult family home.
   (K)   Group home – Adult group home.
   (L)   Group home – Community alternative home.
   (M)   Group home – Congregate housing.
   (N)   Group home – Foster care facility/Certified family foster home.
   (O)   Group home – MR/DD family care facility.
   (P)   Group home – MR/DD group care facility.
   (Q)   Home occupations subject to the conditions of § 154.16.03.
   (R)   Lodging – Bed and breakfast establishment.
   (S)   Parking, On-site.
   (T)   Parkland – Community parkland and public open space.
   (U)   Recreation – Golf course.
   (V)   Recreation – Private, noncommercial areas and facilities.
   (W)   School – Nursery school.
   (X)   School – Private school/Primary school/Intermediate school/Secondary
school.
   (Y)   Subdivision, Cluster residential.
   (Z)   Subdivision, Conventional residential.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.89)
§ 154.10.123 CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES.
   Subject to general conditions and supplemental requirements in this Chapter.
   (A)   Group home – Home for the aging.
   (B)   Group home – Life care facility.
   (C)   Group home – Nursing home.
   (D)   Group home – Nursing homes for convalescent patients.
   (E)   Group home – Rest home.
   (F)   Public utility substation and transmission facilities.
   (G)   Wireless telecommunications facility.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.90)
§ 154.10.124 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The provisions of § 154.16.01 and other regulations in this Chapter shall
apply to the location and maintenance of accessory uses, buildings, and related
structures.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.90.1; Ord. 2909, passed 10-5-93)
§ 154.10.125 MINIMUM LAND AREA, MAXIMUM DENSITY.
   (A)   Minimum Land Area. A minimum land area of five (5) acres shall be
required for a Planned Unit Development, the area being served by both public
water and sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Maximum Density. The maximum density for the following types of R-
PUD's shall not exceed:
      (1)   Single-family: 4.5 dwelling units per acre.
      (2)   Single-family, Two-family: six (6) dwelling units per acre.
      (3)   Two-family: seven (7) dwelling units per acre.
      (4)   Single-family, Two-family, and Multiple-family: ten dwelling units
per acre, (where the total number of multiple-family dwellings is not less than
30% of the total units).
      (5)   Multiple-family: 14 dwelling units per acre.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.91; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.126 MINIMUM FRONTAGE AND LOT SIZE.
   Minimum frontage and lot size may be varied as established by the owner/
developer subject to the approval of the preliminary and detailed final PUD
plans in accordance with the provisions and conditions for approval as
specified in § 154.10.133.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.92; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.127 MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   Front, side, and rear yard requirements are to be established by the owner/
developer, subject to the approval of the preliminary and final PUD plans, in
accordance with the provisions and conditions for approval as specified in §
154.10.133.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.94; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.128 MAXIMUM HEIGHT.
   Maximum height in this district is 35 feet or 2-1/2 stories for single-
family and two-family dwellings and 45 feet or four stories for multiple-family
dwellings.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.93; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.129 REQUIRED MINIMUM DWELLING SIZE.
   The minimum dwelling size shall be governed by the West Carrollton Property
Maintenance Code (Chapter 158), which seeks to prevent overcrowding through
minimum space requirements based on occupancy limitations.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.06; newly proposed on 7/19/01)
§ 154.10.130 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking or loading shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions specified in § 154.12.01.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.95; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.131 SIGNS.
   Refer to Chapter 153.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.96; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.132 OTHER REGULATIONS.
   Refer to Sections
154.11.01 through
154.16.09. HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.97; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.133 PROCEDURES AND PROVISIONS FOR APPROVAL OF R-PUD PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Design Standards. Unless otherwise specified herein, the design
standards for lot area, coverage, density, yard requirements, the R-PUD
District shall be governed by the standards of the zoning district most similar
in nature and function to the proposed R-PUD District use, as determined by the
Planning Commission. Exceptions to these standards may be granted by the
Planning Commission when this body finds that the exceptions encourage a
desirable living environment and are shown to be necessary to provide the
required amount of common open space. Standards for public improvements shall
be governed by all applicable ordinances and laws of the city.
   (B)   Minimum Yard Requirements. Subsequent to receiving the approval for an
R-PUD Planned Unit Development District from the City Council, the owner or
developer shall establish all lot sizes and front, side, and rear yard setbacks
in the detailed final PUD plan for the proposed Planned Unit Development. These
setbacks may vary from the regulations of the city, relating to the platting
and subdividing of land pursuant to ORC §§ 771.01 through 735.26 subject to the
review and approval of the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Required Common Open Space. There shall be reserved, within the tract
to be developed on a planned unit basis, a minimum land area of 20% of the
entire tract for use as common open space. This common open space shall not
consist of isolated or fragmented pieces of land which would serve limited
purposes. Included in this common open space may be such uses as pedestrian
walkways, parkland, open areas, drainageways, swimming pools, clubhouses,
tennis courts, and other lands of essentially open character, exclusive of off-
street parking areas. Ownership of this common open space either shall be
transferred to a legally established home-owner's association or be dedicated
to the city, and proper legal documents necessary for the transfer or
dedication shall be prepared by the owner or developer of the tract of land,
and approved by the City Council. At the option of the city, this common open
space may become a part of the park and open space system of the city.
   (D)   Required Contents of the Preliminary PUD Plan. The owner or developer
is encouraged to engage in informal consultation with the Zoning Inspector and
Planning Commission prior to preparing his preliminary PUD plan, it being
understood that no statement or representation by the Zoning Inspector or
Planning Commission shall be binding on the City Council. The owner or
developer of the tract of land to be developed on a planned unit basis shall
prepare a preliminary PUD plan and shall submit eight copies of the preliminary
PUD plan along with application for a change of zoning district to the Planning
Commission for its consideration. The preliminary PUD plan shall include the
following items:
      (1)   Boundaries of the tract to be developed on a planned unit basis.
      (2)   Base mapping of the property showing the physical features; general
topography, drainageways, water bodies, and tree cover; and existing land uses.
      (3)   Highways and streets in the vicinity of the tract, and the ingress
and egress to the tract.
      (4)   Location of different general land use areas proposed to be
developed.
      (5)   Proposed density levels of each residential use.
      (6)   Proposed treatment of existing topography, drainageways, and tree
cover.
      (7)   Proposed general location of major vehicular circulation, showing
how this circulation pattern relates to the official thoroughfare plan of the
city.
      (8)   Location of schools, parks, and other community facility sites, if
any.
      (9)   Time schedule of projected development, if the total landholding is
to be developed in stages, or if construction is to extend beyond a two-year
time period.
   (E)   Conditions for the Approval of the Preliminary PUD Plans. Upon receipt
of the report of the Planning Commission, the City Council shall study and
review the proposed R-PUD application and preliminary PUD plan on the basis of:
      (1)   All requirements have been satisfied, and
      (2)   A finding that the following specific conditions are fully met:
         (a)   The R-PUD District is in conformance with the comprehensive plan
for the city.
         (b)   Each individual stage of development shall not exceed the
maximum density allowed for the planned unit development landholding as a
whole.
         (c)   The use proposed will not be detrimental to present and
potential surrounding uses, but will have a beneficial effect which could not
be achieved under other zoning districts.
         (d)   The areas proposed shall be used only for residential purposes
and the usual accessory uses such as garages, storage space, parks, recreation
sites, open spaces, and community purposes including churches and schools.
         (e)   The internal streets and major and minor streets that are
proposed shall properly interconnect with the surrounding existing major and
minor streets as designated in the official thoroughfare plan of the city.
         (f)   The minimum common open space area has been designated and shall
be duly transferred to a legally established homeowner's association, or has
been dedicated to, and accepted by the city as herein provided.
         (g)   The preliminary PUD plan is consistent with the intent and
purpose of this zoning code, to promote public health, safety, and general
welfare of the residents of the city.
   (F)   City Council Action. Approval of the preliminary PUD plan shall
require a favorable vote of the majority of the membership of the City Council.
Approval of the preliminary PUD plan shall be limited to the general
acceptability of the land uses proposed, proposed general density levels and
their interrelationship, and shall not be construed to endorse precise location
of uses, configuration of parcels, or engineering feasibility which are to be
determined in the subsequent preparation of the detailed final PUD plan.
Approval of the preliminary PUD plan shall constitute the creation of the
separate R-PUD Planned Unit Development Zoning District. In taking action, City
Council may deny the preliminary PUD plan or may recommend approval of the plan
subject to specified modifications.
   (G)   At the time of adopting any ordinance establishing an R-PUD District,
the City Council shall make appropriate arrangements with the owner or
developer which will ensure the accomplishment of the public improvements and
reservation of common open space as shown on the approved preliminary PUD plan.
   (H)   Time Limits and Extensions.
      (1)   The approval of the preliminary PUD plan shall become null and void
and the land shall revert to its former zoning classification, unless the final
PUD plan for the first section of the planned unit landholding has been
formally approved by the Planning Commission within two years of the date of
approval, in accordance with the conditions for approval specified in divisions
(I) through (K) of this section, and unless the final subdivision plan, where
applicable, shall have been recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
      (2)   An extension of time limit or the minor modification of the
preliminary PUD plan may be approved by the City Council. The approval shall be
given on a finding of the purpose and necessity for the extension or minor
modifications; the evidence of reasonable effort toward the accomplishment of
the preliminary PUD plan; and the recommendation of the Planning Commission.
   (I)   Required Contents of the Detailed Final PUD Plan. Once the R-PUD
Zoning District and the preliminary PUD plan have been approved by the City
Council, the owner or developer shall proceed with the preparation of the
detailed final PUD plan. The detailed final PUD plan must be reviewed and
approved by the Planning Commission prior to the issuance of any zoning
certificate by the Zoning Enforcement Officer. The detailed final PUD plan
shall be prepared for the owner or developer, and shall bear the original
signature or original seal of a professional competent urban planner,
professional engineer, architect, or landscape architect, and shall be in
accordance with the approved preliminary PUD plan, and shall include the
following:
      (1)   Survey of the tract to be developed showing existing physical
features; general topography, drainageways, tree cover and streets, easements,
and utility lines.
      (2)   Detailed site plans showing lot lines, building outlines, off-
street parking spaces, pedestrian walkways, vehicular circulation.
      (3)   Preliminary building plans, including floor plans and exterior
elevations.
      (4)   Landscaping plans including quantity, size, and varieties of
landscaping.
      (5)   Specific detailed engineering plans, including site grading, street
improvements, drainage and utility improvements, and extensions as necessary.
      (6)   All necessary legal documentation relating to the incorporation of
a homeowner's association for the purpose of maintaining the required common
open space included within the Planned Unit Development.
      (7)   Copies of any restrictive covenants that are to be recorded.
   (J)   Major Changes. Should the formulation of the detailed final PUD plan
for any section of the total Planned Unit Development landholding necessitate a
major change in the approved preliminary PUD plan, reconsideration and approval
by the City Council shall be required in accordance with the procedures
specified in § 154.10.133. Major changes shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   An increase in density.
      (2)   Changes in the outside boundaries of the Planned Unit Development
landholding.
      (3)   Major changes in the location or amount of land designated for
specific land uses, including open space.
      (4)   Major changes in the internal street and thoroughfare locations or
alignments.
   (K)   Conditions for the Approval of the Detailed Final PUD Plan. On receipt
of the detailed final PUD plan for each section of the Planned Unit Development
landholding, the Planning Commission shall study and review the detailed final
PUD plan and shall approve, modify, or disapprove the plan on the basis:
      (1)   That all requirements have been satisfied, and
      (2)   That a finding that the following specific conditions are fully
met:
         (a)   The proposed detailed final PUD plan for the individual section
of the overall R-PUD District are in conformance with the approved preliminary
PUD plan, and the comprehensive plan map and text of the city.
         (b)   Each individual stage of the Planned Unit Development can exist
as an independent planned unit which is capable of creating an environment of
sustained desirability and stability, or that adequate assurance will be
provided that the objective can be obtained.
         (c)   Any part of the Planned Unit Development not used for
structures, parking, and loading areas, or streets, shall be landscaped or
otherwise improved, or if approved by the Planning Commission, left in its
natural state.
         (d)   Any exception from the standard requirements of this zoning code
are warranted by the design and amenities incorporated in the detailed final
PUD plan, in accordance with the adopted policy of the Planning Commission and
the City Council.
         (e)   The internal streets and thoroughfares proposed are suitable and
adequate to accommodate the anticipated traffic within and through the
development.
         (f)   The detailed final PUD plan is consistent with the intent and
purpose of this zoning code to promote public health, safety, and general
welfare of the residents of the city.
      (3)   The approval of the detailed final PUD plan for any section of the
total Planned Unit Development landholding shall expire if the zoning
certificate or building permits required to implement the plan are not obtained
within two years of the date of approval. The Planning Commission may extend
the time limit of approval for a detailed final PUD plan if it finds the
detailed final PUD plan still meets the original conditions for approval and
there has been evidence that reasonable efforts have been made to accomplish
the plan. The Planning Commission shall not consider or grant any extension
when a zoning map change or text amendment has been enacted subsequent to the
approval of the original of the final PUD plan which would effect the property
subject to the plan.
   (L)   Subdivision of a Completed Planned Unit Development. All future
subdivisions of a completed Planned Unit Development shall be first reviewed
and approved by the Planning Commission to assure that each subdivided area of
the development includes the parking, open space, density, and other similar
necessary requirements.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.98; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am. Ord. 2833, passed
12-30-91; Am. Ord. 3079, passed 1-27-98)
   (M)   Guarantee for Installation of Public Improvements.
      (1)   All site improvements shall conform to the approved site plan and
construction plans.
      (2)   To provide assurance to the City that public improvements will be
completed once construction has begun, the developer shall furnish a bond
executed by a surety company, letter of credit, or certified check equal to the
cost of construction of such public improvements as shown on the approved
plans, and based on an estimate approved by the City Manager as advised by the
Service Director and in a form approved by the Law Director. Such surety shall
be provided prior to issuance of a building permit for the project. Letters of
credit shall not permit draws by the developer without the express approval of
the City.
         (a)   For the purposes of this section, construction shall be defined
as any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate related to one or
more of the following public improvements: earth-disturbing activities
including clearing, excavating, filling, and grading of property; driveway
approaches; sidewalks; street surfacing; curbs, gutters, and public sanitary
sewers; public water supply; stormwater detention facilities; stormwater best
management practices for runoff quality; and street signs.
      (3)   The performance bond, letter of credit, or certified check shall
run to the City and shall provide that the developer, his heirs, successors and
assigns, their agent or servants, upon commencement of construction, will
comply with all applicable terms, conditions, provisions and requirements of
these regulations; will faithfully perform and complete the work of
constructing and installing all public improvements in accordance with such
laws and regulations; will complete all public improvements prior to issuance
of a final occupancy permit for the project; and will complete all public
improvements within one (1) year from the date of final approval of the
building permit, but the bond or letter of credit will run indefinitely until
released by the City. In no case shall the work be completed after one (1) year
from the date of final approval of the building permit, unless an extension is
granted by the City as specified below.
      (4)   Upon commencement of construction, if the installation of any
public improvement, for which guarantee has been made by the developer in the
form of bond, letter of credit, or certified check, is not completed within one
(1) year from the date of final approval of the building permit, the developer
may request the City to grant an extension of six (6) months, provided (s)he
can show reasonable cause for inability to complete said public improvement(s)
within the required one (1) year. A maximum of two six-month extensions may be
granted. At the expiration of the extension(s), the City will use as much of
the bond, letter of credit, or certified check as necessary to complete the
construction of the public improvements.
      (5)   All public improvements located within the public right-of-way
shall be completed within 14 days of initial excavation, unless an extension is
granted for reasonable cause by the City Manager as advised by the Service
Director and Director of City Planning.
      (6)   As required public improvements are completed, approved, and
accepted, the City Manager, as advised by the Service Director and Director of
City Planning, may reduce the amount of the performance bond, letter of credit,
or certified check.
      (7)   Periodic inspections during the installation of public improvements
shall be made by the City to ensure conformity with the approved plans and
specifications as required by these regulations.
      (8)   The developer shall schedule required inspections at least forty-
eight (48) hours in advance with proper administrative officials.
      (9)   The absence of an inspector from a project during construction
shall not relieve the developer from full responsibility under this agreement.
Upon acceptable completion of installation of the required public improvements,
the City Manager as advised by the Service Director and Director of City
Planning shall issue a letter to the developer or his/her agent and such letter
shall be sufficient evidence for the release by the City.
      (10)   When the Service Director and Director of City Planning, following
final inspection of a project, certify to the City Manager that all public
improvements have been constructed in accordance with City specifications, the
City Manager may proceed to accept the facilities for which bond, letter of
credit, or certified check has been posted.
      (11)   Whenever public improvements have not been constructed in
accordance with the agreement and with specifications as established, the City
Manager as advised by the Service Director and Director of City Planning may
exercise his/her rights of foreclosure under the bond, letter of credit, or
certified check.
      (12)   Should construction not commence prior to expiration of the
building permit and any extensions granted in accordance with this section, the
performance bond, letter of credit, or certified check shall be released in its
entirety by the City. (Ord. 3477. Passed 4-12-11.)
§ 154.10.134 ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN STANDARDS.
   New buildings and major facade alterations shall be constructed in
accordance with the specifications of Section
 154.17.01, Architectural Design Standards. (Ord. 3419. Passed 4-28-09.)
R-MHP MANUFACTURED-MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT
§ 154.10.201 R-MHP MANUFACTURED-MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT.
   The purpose of the R-MHP Manufactured-Mobile Home Park District is to
provide appropriate locations for manufactured homes and mobile homes in a
designated district within the city. Manufactured home parks shall be located
only in the MHP-District and shall be developed according to the standards and
regulations referenced herein. Manufactured homes and mobile homes not located
within an approved Manufactured-Mobile Home Park District shall not be
permitted unless the dwelling is a permanently-sited manufactured home as
defined herein.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed)
§ 154.10.202 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES. 
   Permitted uses shall be limited to manufactured homes, mobile homes and
other uses characteristic of a residential area.
   (A)   Accessory building and structures as regulated by § 154.16.01.
   (B)   Accessory uses as regulated by § 154.16.01.
   (C)   Dwelling – Manufactured home-mobile home.
   (D)   Parking, On-site.
   (E)   Parkland – Community parkland and public open space.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.78)
§ 154.10.203 CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES.
   Subject to general conditions and supplemental requirements in this Chapter.
   (A)   Public utility substation and transmission facilities.
   (B)   Wireless telecommunications facility.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.79)
§ 154.10.204 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The provisions of § 154.16.01 and other regulations in this Chapter shall
apply to the location and maintenance of accessory uses, buildings, and related
structures.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed)
§ 154.10.205 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
   All manufactured home parks shall comply with the requirements of the Ohio
Administrative Code Chapter 3701 promulgated by the Ohio Public Health Council
in accordance with Chapter 3733 of the Ohio Revised Code and any other
applicable local or state codes and regulations.
   The Planning Commission and City Council shall review the particular facts
and circumstances of each proposed manufactured home park development in terms
of the following standards and shall find adequate evidence that such
development meets these standards before amending the City Zoning Map and
establishing an MHP-District:
   (A)   The proposed park will be served adequately by essential public
facilities and services such as highways, streets, drainage, refuse disposal,
schools, police, and fire protection; or persons or agencies involved in the
establishment of the proposed park will provide such services adequately.
   (B)   The vehicular approaches to the proposed park property will be so
designed as not to create traffic interference or congestion on the surrounding
public streets or roads.
   (C)   The establishment of the proposed park will not result in the damage,
destruction, or loss of any natural, scenic, or historic features of major
importance.
   (D)   The establishment of the proposed park will not be demonstrably
detrimental to the value of the surrounding properties or the character of the
adjacent neighborhood.
   (E)   The establishment of the proposed park will not be hazardous or
detrimental to existing or future neighboring uses.
   (F)   The establishment of the proposed park will not create excessive
additional requirements at public cost for public facilities and services and
will not be detrimental to the economic welfare of the community.
   (G)   The establishment of the proposed park is in general conformance with
the Zoning Ordinance and the Comprehensive Plan.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed)
O-R OFFICE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.10.301 O-R OFFICE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   The purpose of the O-R Office-Residential District is to designate and
reserve certain land areas for office and medium density residential
development to provide a district designed to accommodate such uses along major
thoroughfares and in areas between commercial and lower density residential
land uses, thereby minimizing strip commercial development while allowing for
the orderly transition between the commercial and residential areas of the
city.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.67; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am. Ord. 3030, passed
10-22-96)
§ 154.10.302 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Accessory building and structures as regulated by § 154.16.01.
   (B)   Accessory uses as regulated by § 154.16.01.
   (C)   Churches and other similar places of religious worship.
   (D)   Day care facility – Child day care center.
   (E)   Day care facility – Type B family day care home.
   (F)   Dwelling – Row.
   (G)   Dwelling – Single-family, detached.
   (H)   Dwelling – Single-family, zero-lot line.
   (I)   Dwelling – Two-family.
   (J)   Group home – Adult family home.
   (K)   Group home – Foster care facility/Certified family foster home.
   (L)   Financial institution without drive-in.
   (M)   Funeral homes and mortuaries.
   (N)   Home occupations subject to the conditions of § 154.16.03.
   (O)   Office – Professional office/Business office.
   (P)   Parking, On-site.
   (Q)   Parkland – Community parkland and public open space.
   (R)   School – Nursery school.
   (S)   Studio – Instructional studio/Commercial studio.
   (T)   Subdivision, Conventional residential.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.68)
§ 154.10.303 CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES.
   Subject to general conditions and supplemental requirements in this Chapter.
   (A)   Group home – Adult group home.
   (B)   Group home – Community alternative home.
   (C)   Group home – Congregate housing.
   (D)   Group home – Home for the aging.
   (E)   Group home – Life care facility.
   (F)   Group home – MR/DD family care facility.
   (G)   Group home – MR/DD group care facility.
   (H)   Group home – Nursing home.
   (I)   Group home – Nursing homes for convalescent patients.
   (J)   Group home – Rest home.
   (K)   Lodging – Bed and breakfast establishment.
   (L)   Parking, Commercial.
   (M)   Parking, Shared.
   (N)   Public utility substation and transmission facilities.
   (O)   Subdivision, Cluster residential.
   (P)   Wireless telecommunications facility.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.69))
§ 154.10.304 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The provisions of § 154.16.01 and other regulations in this Chapter shall
apply to the location and maintenance of accessory uses, buildings, and related
structures.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed)
§ 154.10.305 MINIMUM ZONING LOT SIZE.
   (A)   Single-family Dwelling: 7,500 square feet.
   (B)   Two-family Dwellings: 12,000 square feet (6,000 square feet per
dwelling unit).
   (C)   Business and Professional Offices, Funeral Homes, Mortuaries, and
Studios: 10,000 square feet.
   (D)   Churches and other similar places of worship: one acre.
   (E)   Other permitted uses: one acre.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.70; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am. Ord. 3030, passed
10-22-96)
§ 154.10.306 MINIMUM FRONTAGE.
   (A)   Single-family Dwellings: 60 feet.
   (B)   Two-family Dwellings: 85 feet.
   (C)   Business and Professional Offices, Funeral Homes, Mortuaries, and
Studios: 90 feet.
   (D)   Churches and other similar places of worship: 150 feet.
   (E)   Other permitted uses: 150 feet.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.71; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am. Ord. 3030, passed
10-22-96)
§ 154.10.307 MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum Front Yard Requirement.
      (1)    Residential Single-family and Two-family Dwellings: 25 feet.
      (2)   Residential Uses Fronting on a Major Street: 35 feet.
      (3)   Residential uses in which the average existing front yard setback
on two or more lots located within 100 feet and in the same block as the lot in
question is either less or greater than the minimum front yard requirements
specified in § 154.10.307(A)(1) or (2), the front yard requirement shall be
modified as follows:
         (a)   The modified front yard shall not be less than the average
setback of the existing front yards of the two lots immediately adjacent to the
lot in question, or if a corner lot, then the same as the setback on the
immediately adjacent lot.
         (b)   In no case shall any front yard be modified to require less than
ten feet.
      (4)   Business and Professional Offices, Funeral Homes, Mortuaries, and
Studios: 35 feet.
      (5)   Churches and other similar places of worship: 40 feet.
      (6)   Corner Lots.
         (a)   On all corner lots, all yards which front on streets shall be
considered front yards, and as such shall meet the minimum front yard
requirements specified in § 154.10.307(A)(1) to (5).
         (b)   On all lots having frontage on two streets which do not
intersect, the minimum front yard setback specified in § 154.10.307(A)(1) to
(5) shall apply to each yard with street frontage.
   (B)   Minimum for Each Side Yard.
      (1)   Residential Single-family and Two-family Dwellings: ten (10) feet.
      (2)   Business and Professional Offices, Funeral Homes, Mortuaries, and
Studios:  ten (10) feet, except when adjoining a R or O-R District, and then 20
feet.
      (3)   Churches and other similar places of worship: 20 feet.
   (C)   Minimum Rear Yard Requirement.
      (1)   Residential Single-family and Two-family Dwellings: 40 feet.
      (2)   Business and Professional Offices, Funeral Homes, Mortuaries, and
Studios: 40 feet.
      (3)   Churches and other similar places of worship: 50 feet.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.73; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am. Ord. 3030, passed
10-22-96)
§ 154.10.308 MAXIMUM AND MINIMUM HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Maximum Height: 35 feet or 2-1/2-stories.
   (B)   Minimum Height: one (1) story, unless a home is to be constructed on a
vacant lot and there are dwellings within 50 feet on either side with 2 or more
stories, then construction on the infill lot shall be a minimum of two (2)
stories.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.72; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am.
Ord. 3030, passed 10-22-96)
§ 154.10.309 REQUIRED MINIMUM DWELLING SIZE.
   The minimum dwelling size shall be governed by the West Carrollton Property
Maintenance Code (Chapter 158), which seeks to prevent overcrowding through
minimum space requirements based on occupancy limitations.
HISTORY: (newly proposed on 7/19/01; Formerly § 154.06)
§ 154.10.310 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking or loading shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions specified in § 154.12.01.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.74; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am. Ord. 3030, passed
10-22-96)
§ 154.10.311 SIGNS.
   Refer to Chapter 153.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.75; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am. Ord. 3030, passed
10-22-96
§ 154.10.312 ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN STANDARDS.
   New buildings and major facade alterations shall be constructed in
accordance with the specifications of Section
154.17.01, Architectural Design Standards. (Ord. 3419. Passed 4-28-09.)
O OFFICE DISTRICT
§ 154.10.351 O- OFFICE DISTRICT.
   The purpose of the O Office District is to designate and reserve certain
land areas for office development to provide a district designed to accommodate
such uses along major thoroughfares and in areas between commercial and
residential land uses, thereby minimizing strip commercial development while
allowing for the orderly transition between the commercial and residential
areas of the city.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.57; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.352 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Accessory building and structures as regulated by § 154.16.01.
   (B)   Accessory uses as regulated by § 154.16.01.
   (C)   Churches and other similar places of religious worship.
   (D)   Day care facility – Child day care center.
   (E)   Financial institution without drive-in.
   (F)   Funeral homes and mortuaries.
   (G)   Office – Professional office/Business office.
   (H)   Parking, On-site.
   (I)   Parkland – Community parkland and public open space.
   (J)   School – Business trades and technical schools
   (K)   School – Nursery school.
   (L)   School – Private school/Primary school/Intermediate school/Secondary
school.
   (M)   Studio – Instructional studio/Commercial studio.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.58; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
   (N)   Mobile food vendors as provided in Section
154.16.11. (Ord. 3475. Passed 4-12-11.)
§ 154.10.353 CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES.
   Subject to general conditions and supplemental requirements in this Chapter.
   (A)   Group home – Nursing home.
   (B)   Financial institution with drive-in.
   (C)   Fraternal lodges and private clubs.
   (D)   Hospitals/Urgent Care Centers.
   (E)   Parking, Commercial.
   (F)   Parking, Shared.
   (G)   Public utility substation and transmission facilities.
   (H)   Recreation – Golf course.
   (I)   Wireless telecommunications facility.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.59; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am.
Ord. 3063, passed 9-23-97)
§ 154.10.354 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The provisions of § 154.16.01 and other regulations in this Chapter shall
apply to the location and maintenance of accessory uses, buildings, and related
structures. HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.59.1; Ord. 2909, passed 10-5-93)
§ 154.10.355 MINIMUM ZONING LOT SIZE.
   (A)   Business and Professional Offices; Funeral Homes, Mortuaries, and
Studios: 10,000 square feet.
   (B)   Churches and other similar places of worship: one acre.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.60; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.356 MINIMUM FRONTAGE.
   (A)   Business and Professional Offices, Funeral Homes, Mortuaries, and
Studios: 90 feet.
   (B)   Churches and other similar places of worship: 150 feet.
HISTORY: (Formerly ; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.357 MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum Front Yard Requirements.
      (1)   Churches and other similar places of worship: 40 feet.
      (2)   All Other Uses: 35 feet, unless the height of the front wall of the
building is greater than 35 feet, then the height of the front wall.
      (3)   Corner Lots.
         (a)   On all corner lots, all yards which front on streets shall be
considered front yards, and as such shall meet the minimum front yard
requirements specified in § 154.10.357(A)(1) or (2).
         (b)   On all lots having frontage on two streets which do not
intersect, the minimum front yard setback specified in § 154.10.357(A)(1) or
(2) shall apply to each yard with street frontage.
   (B)   Minimum Requirements for Each Side Yard.
      (1)   Churches and other similar places of worship: 20 feet.
      (2)   All Other Uses: 10 feet, unless the greater requirement of the
following applies:
         (a)   The height of the wall of the building along the side yard is
greater than 10 feet, then the height of the side wall.
         (b)   The side yard adjoins a R or O-R District, then 20 feet for the
side yard(s) adjacent to the R or O-R District.
   (D)   Minimum Rear Yard.
      (1)   Churches and other similar places of worship: 50 feet.
      (2)   All Other Uses: 40 feet, unless the height of the rear wall of the
building is greater than 40 feet, then the height of the rear wall.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.63; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.358 MAXIMUM HEIGHT.
   Maximum height in this district is 45 feet or four stories.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.62)
§ 154.10.359 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking or loading shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions specified in § 154.12.01.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.64; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.360 SIGNS.
   Refer to Chapter 153.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.65)
§ 154.10.361 OTHER REGULATIONS.
   Refer to Sections
154.11.01 through
154.16.09. HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.66; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.362 ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN STANDARDS.
   New buildings and major facade alterations shall be constructed in
accordance with the specifications of Section
154.17.01, Architectural Design Standards. (Ord. 3419. Passed 4-28-09.)
B-1 CONVENIENCE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.10.401 B-1 CONVENIENCE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   The purpose of the B-1 Convenience Commercial District is to designate and
reserve certain land areas for convenience, commercial, personal services, and
certain types of business and professional uses located in convenient and close
relationship to nearby areas of surrounding development.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.47; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.402 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Accessory building and structures as regulated by §
154.16.01.
   (B)   Accessory uses as regulated by §
154.16.01.
   (C)   Day care facility, Adult.
   (D)   Day care facility – Child day care center.
   (E)   Dwelling – Above commercial structure
   (F)   Financial institution without drive-in.
   (G)   Home occupations subject to the conditions of §
154.16.03.
   (H)   Office – Professional office/Business office.
   (I)   Parking, On-site.
   (J)   Parkland – Community parkland and public open space.
   (K)   Recreation – Community center/senior center.
   (L)   Restaurant – Fast food restaurant without drive- in.
   (M)   Restaurant, Sit-down.
   (N)   Retail – Sales and services in structures less than or equal to 10,000
s.f. in gross floor area.
   (O)   Retail Tobacco Store.
   (P)   School – Business trade school/Technical school.
   (Q)   School – Nursery school.
   (R)   Smoking Establishment.
   (S)   Studio – Instructional studio/Commercial studio.
   (T)   Tavern.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.48)
   (U)   Mobile food vendors as provided in Section
154.16.11. (Ord. 3475. Passed 4-12-11; Ord. 3567. Passed 8-25-15.)
§ 154.10.403 CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES.
   Subject to general conditions and supplemental requirements in this Chapter.
   (A)   Financial institution with drive-in.
   (B)   Fraternal lodges and private clubs.
   (C)   Parking, Commercial.
   (D)   Parking, Shared.
   (E)   Public utility substation and transmission facilities.
   (F)   Retail – Sales and services in structures greater than 10,000 s.f. in
gross floor area.
   (G)   Wireless telecommunications facility.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.49)
§ 154.10.404 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The provisions of §
154.16.01 and other regulations in this Chapter shall apply to the location and
maintenance of accessory uses, buildings, and related structures.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.49.1; Ord. 2909, passed 10-5-93)
§ 154.10.405 MINIMUM ZONING LOT SIZE.
   Minimum zoning lot size in this district is 10,000 square feet.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.50; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.406 MINIMUM FRONTAGE.
   Minimum frontage in this district is 90 feet.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.51; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.407 MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum Front Yard Requirements.
      (1)   All Uses: 35 feet.
      (2)   Where the average existing front yard setback on two or more lots
located within 100 feet and in the same block as the lot in question is either
less or greater than the minimum front yard requirements specified in §
154.10.407(A)(1), the front yard requirement shall be modified as follows:
         1.   The modified front yard shall not be less than the average
setback of the existing front yards of the two lots immediately adjacent to the
lot in question, or if a corner lot, then the same as the setback on the
immediately adjacent lot.
         2.   In no case shall any front yard be modified to require less than
ten feet.
      (3)   Corner Lots.
         (a)   On all corner lots, all yards which front on streets shall be
considered front yards, and as such shall meet the minimum front yard
requirements specified in § 154.10.407(A)(1) or (2).
         (b)   On all lots having frontage on two streets which do not
intersect, the minimum front yard setback specified in §
154.10.407(A)(1) or (2) shall apply to each yard with street frontage.
   (B)   Minimum Side Yard Requirements: 10 feet, unless the greater
requirement of the following applies:
         (a)   The height of the wall of the building along the side yard is
greater than 10 feet, then the height of the side wall.
         (b)   The side yard adjoins a R or O-R District, then 20 feet for the
side yard(s) adjacent to the R or O-R District.
   (C)   Minimum Rear Yard Requirements: 30 feet, unless the height of the rear
wall is greater than 30 feet, then the height of the rear wall.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.53; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.408 MAXIMUM HEIGHT.
   Maximum height in this district is 35 feet or 2-1/2 stories.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.52; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.409 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking or loading shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions specified in §
154.12.01.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.54; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.410 SIGNS.
   Refer to
Chapter 153.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.55; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.411 OTHER REGULATIONS.
   Refer to Sections
154.11.01 through
154.16.09. HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.56; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.412 ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN STANDARDS.
   New buildings and major facade alterations shall be constructed in
accordance with the specifications of Section
154.17.01, Architectural Design Standards. (Ord. 3419. Passed 4-28-09.)
B-2 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.10.421 B-2 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   The purpose of the B-2 General Commercial District is to designate and
reserve certain land area for central commercial, community, and highway uses
and services which serve the general commercial needs of the residents of the
city and surrounding areas. These locations shall accommodate the most
intensive commercial and office uses and shall reflect areas of sound organized
development.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.37; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.422 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Accessory building and structures as regulated by §
154.16.01.
   (B)   Accessory uses as regulated by §
154.16.01.
   (C)   Animal hospital or veterinary clinic with indoor kennels or no
kennels.
   (D)   Animal kennels, indoor.
   (E)   Automobile – Convenience drive-through.
   (F)   Contractor office
   (G)   Contractor shop
   (H)   Day care facility – Child day care center.
   (I)   Dwelling – Above commercial structure.
   (J)   Financial institution with drive-in.
   (K)   Financial institution without drive-in.
   (L)   Fraternal lodges and private clubs.
   (M)   Funeral homes and mortuaries.
   (N)   Home Improvement Center.
   (O)   Home occupations subject to the conditions of §
154.16.03.
   (P)   Hospitals/Urgent care centers.
   (Q)   Lodging – Hotels and motels.
   (R)   Office – Professional office/Business office.
   (S)   Parking, On-site.
   (T)   Parkland – Community parkland and public open space.
   (U)   Recreation – Commercial recreation facilities.
   (V)   Recreation – Community center/senior center.
   (W)   Recreation – Health Clubs with indoor facilities only/Athletic
training facilities.
   (X)   Recreation – Health Clubs with outdoor facilities.
   (Y)   Recreation – Theater with less than 50,000 s.f. gross floor area.
   (Z)   Restaurant – Fast food restaurant with drive-in.
   (AA)   Restaurant – Fast food restaurant without drive-in.
   (BB)   Restaurant, Sit-down.
   (CC)   Retail – Nursery/Garden Center.
   (DD)   Retail – Sales and services in structures greater than 10,000 s.f. in
gross floor area.
   (EE)   Retail – Sales and services in structures less than or equal to
10,000 s.f. in gross floor area.
   (FF)   Retail Tobacco Store.
   (GG)   School – Business trade school/Technical school.
   (HH)   School – Nursery school.
   (II)   Sexually oriented businesses
   (JJ)   Smoking Establishment.
   (KK)   Tavern.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.38)
   (LL)   Mobile food vendors as provided in Section
 154.16.11. (Ord. 3475. Passed 4-12-11; Ord. 3567. Passed 8-25-15; Ord. 3592.
Passed 10-11-16.)
§ 154.10.423 CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES.
   Subject to general conditions and supplemental requirements in this Chapter.
   (A)   Alternative financial services provider, meeting the requirements of §
154.16.13, Alternative Financial Services Providers.
   (B)    Animal hospital or veterinary clinic with outdoor kennels.
   (C)    Animal kennels, indoor.
   (D)   Automobile detailing shop.
   (E)    Automobile fueling station.
   (F)    Automobile washing facility, Full service.
   (G)    Automobile washing facility, Self service.
   (H)    Automobile – Convenience market/Gas station mini-mart
   (I)    Automobile – Service station/Repair garage.
   (J)   Hookah Bar, meeting the requirements of Section
154.16.12, Hookah Bars.
   (K)    Manufacturing – Light manufacturing.
   (L)    Parking, Commercial.
   (M)    Parking, Shared.
   (N)    Public utility substation and transmission facilities.
   (O)    Recreation – Theater, drive-in.
   (P)    Recreation – Theater with 50,000 s.f. or more gross floor area.
   (Q)    Vehicle sales and service – Agricultural Implements/Marine equipment/
Manufactured homes/Industrialized units/Travel trailers/Heavy trucks.
   (R)    Vehicle sales and service, Automobile and motorcycle.
   (S)    Warehousing – Mini-warehouses/Self-service storage facilities.
   (T)    Wireless telecommunications facility.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly §154.39)
(A.O.; Ord. 3567. Passed 8-25-15; Ord. 3582. Passed 4-12-16; Ord. 3591. Passed
10-11-16; Ord. 3592. Passed 10-11-16.)
§ 154.10.424 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The provisions of § 154.16.01 and other regulations in this Chapter shall
apply to the location and maintenance of accessory uses, buildings, and related
structures.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.39.1; Ord. 2909, passed 10-5-93)
§ 154.10.425 MINIMUM ZONING LOT SIZE.
   None required in this district.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.40; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.426 MINIMUM FRONTAGE.
   None required in this district.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.41; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.427 MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum Front Yard Requirement.
      (1)   All Uses: 30 feet.
      (2)   Where the average existing front yard setback on two or more lots
located within 100 feet and in the same block as the lot in question is either
less or greater than the minimum front yard requirements specified in §
154.10.427(A)(1), the front yard requirement shall be modified as follows:
         1.   The modified front yard shall not be less than the average
setback of the existing front yards of the two lots immediately adjacent to the
lot in question, or if a corner lot, then the same as the setback on the
immediately adjacent lot.
         2.   In no case shall any front yard be modified to require less than
ten feet.
      (3)   Corner Lots.
         (a)   On all corner lots, all yards which front on streets shall be
considered front yards, and as such shall meet the minimum front yard
requirements specified in § 154.10.427(A)(1) or (2).
         (b)   On all lots having frontage on two streets which do not
intersect, the minimum front yard setback specified in § 154.10.427(A)(1) or
(2) shall apply to each yard with street frontage.
   (B)   Minimum Requirement for Each Side Yard: 10 feet, unless the greater
requirement of the following applies:
      (1)   The height of the wall of the building along the side yard is
greater than 10 feet, then the height of the side wall.
      (2)   The side yard adjoins a R or O-R District, then 20 feet for the
side yard(s) adjacent to the R or O-R District.
   (C)   Minimum Rear Yard Requirements: 20 feet, unless the greater
requirement of the following applies:
      (1)   The height of the rear wall of the building is greater than 20
feet, then the height of the rear wall.
      (2)   The lot adjoins a R or O-R District, then 40 feet. HISTORY: (Newly
proposed; formerly § 154.43; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.428 MAXIMUM LOT COVERAGE.
   The maximum lot coverage limitation is 50%.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed)
§ 154.10.429 MAXIMUM HEIGHT.
   Maximum height in this district is 45 feet or four stories except as
hereinafter provided. Buildings may be erected in excess of four stories
provided that prior to issuance of a building permit for any structure which is
planned to exceed 45 feet or four stories, the Planning Commission shall make a
finding that any such excessive height will not be detrimental to the public
safety, to the light, privacy, or air of any other structure or use currently
existing or approved for construction. HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.42; Ord. 2132,
passed 5-22-79; Am. Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.430 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking or loading shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions specified in § 154.12.01. HISTORY: (formerly § 154.44; Ord. 2306,
passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.431 SIGNS.
   Refer to Chapter 153.
HISTORY: (formerly § 154.45; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.432 OTHER REGULATIONS.
   Refer to Sections
154.11.01 through
154.16.09. HISTORY: (formerly § 154.46; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.433 ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN STANDARDS.
   New buildings and major facade alterations shall be constructed in
accordance with the specifications of Section
154.17.01, Architectural Design Standards. (Ord. 3419. Passed 4-28-09.)
OD OLDE DOWNTOWN DISTRICT
§ 154.10.451 OLDE DOWNTOWN DISTRICT.
   The purpose of the Olde Downtown District is to designate and reserve the
historic downtown area of West Carrollton and tailor this area toward a more
urban downtown environment. The unique aspects of Downtown will be reflected in
the uses permitted, the way parking is addressed, and in terms of other
development standards. A limitation on building size will be included to help
guard against new construction of an inappropriate scale (should the existing
structures somehow be removed). HISTORY: (Newly proposed)
§ 154.10.452 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Accessory building and structures as regulated by § 154.16.01.
   (B)   Accessory uses as regulated by § 154.16.01.
   (C)   Day care facility – Child day care center.
   (D)   Dwelling – Above or to the rear of commercial structure.
   (E)   Dwelling – Single-family, detached. Single- family dwellings shall be
permitted only on lots fronting on Main Street
   (F)   Financial institution without drive-in.
   (G)   Fraternal lodges and private clubs.
   (H)   Home occupations subject to the conditions of § 154.16.03.
   (I)   Office – Professional office/Business office.
   (J)   Parking, On-site.
   (K)   Parking, Shared.
   (L)   Parkland – Community parkland and public open space.
   (M)   Restaurant – Fast food restaurant without drive- in.
   (N)   Restaurant, Sit-down.
   (O)   Retail – Sales and services in structures less than or equal to 10,000
s.f. in gross floor area.
   (P)   Retail Tobacco Store.
   (Q)   School – Nursery school.
   (R)   Smoking Establishment.
   (S)   Studio – Instructional studio/Commercial studio.
   (T)   Tavern.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed) (A.O.; Ord. 3567. Passed 8-25-15.)
   (U)   Mobile food vendors, as provided in Section
154.16.11. (Ord. 3475. Passed 4-12-11; Ord. 3567. Passed 8-25-15.)
§ 154.10.453 CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES.
   Subject to general conditions and supplemental requirements in this Chapter.
   (A)   Parking, Commercial.
   (B)   Public utility substation and transmission facilities.
   (C)   Retail – Sales and services in structures greater than 10,000 s.f. in
gross floor area.
   (D)   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Former subsection (D) was repealed by Ordinance 3475,
passed April 12, 2011.)
   (E)   Wireless telecommunications facility.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed)
§ 154.10.454 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The provisions of § 154.16.01 and other regulations in this Chapter shall
apply to the location and maintenance of accessory uses, buildings, and related
structures.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed)
§ 154.10.455 MINIMUM ZONING LOT SIZE.
   None required in this district.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed)
§ 154.10.456 MINIMUM FRONTAGE.
   Minimum frontage in this district is 90 feet.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed)
§ 154.10.457 MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum Front Yard Requirement: None.
   (B)   Minimum Requirements for Each Side Yard: None.
   (C)   Minimum Rear Yard Requirements: 10 feet.
HISTORY: (newly proposed)
§ 154.10.458 MAXIMUM LOT COVERAGE.
   The maximum lot coverage limitation is 80%.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed)
§ 154.10.459 MAXIMUM HEIGHT.
   Maximum height in this district is 35 feet or 2-1/2 stories.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed)
§ 154.10.460 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   (A)   The Old Downtown District does not have a requirement for off-street
parking.
   (B)   Off-street loading shall be provided in accordance with the provisions
specified in § 154.12.01.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed)
§ 154.10.461 SIGNS.
   Refer to Chapter 153.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed)
§ 154.10.462 OTHER REGULATIONS.
   Refer to Sections
154.11.01 through
154.16.09. HISTORY: (Newly proposed)
§ 154.10.463 ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN STANDARDS.
   New buildings and major facade alterations shall be constructed in
accordance with the specifications of Section
154.17.01, Architectural Design Standards. (Ord. 3419. Passed 4-28-09.)
CC CITY CENTER DISTRICT
§ 154.10.471 CC CITY CENTER DISTRICT.
   (A)   General Purpose.
      (1)   It is the intent of the CC City Center District to provide the
necessary regulations and standards pertaining to the specific land uses and
development character that are consistent with the goals and policies of the
City’s Urban Design Plan, Comprehensive Plan and proposed improvement of Exit
47.
      (2)   The purpose of the CC District is to assist the development and
redevelopment of land uses in order to achieve higher efficiency, function, and
compatibility with the character of the District; to protect private property
and investment; to provide for flexibility in land use controls; and to protect
or improve the quality of the environment in those locations where the
characteristics of the environment are of significant public value and are
vulnerable to change by the cumulative effect of development permitted under
conventional zoning regulations.
      (3)   These regulations establish requirements and procedures for
approval of development and redevelopment projects within this District, which
are planned and designed in a manner which promotes and encourages
revitalization and business development, and helps establish the subject area
into a viable and attractive City Center.
      (4)   Whenever there is a conflict between regulations and/or
requirements of other sections of this Zoning Code as they may apply in the CC
District, the regulations of the CC District shall control.
      (5)   Contrary to conventional development control strictly by type of
use, the CC District provides a more flexible instrument which governs
development by the urban design criteria of building placement, building form
and character, access and parking placement, and the availability of
substantial pedestrian amenities.
   (B)   Objectives. The CC City Center District is specifically designed to:
      (1)   Provide for increased opportunities and land use efficiency for
redevelopment new development, and business development expansion.
      (2)   Protect property and private investment.
      (3)   Encourage a viable and compatible mix of commercial, business,
office, and residential uses in the district.
      (4)   Encourage creative planning and design in the arrangement and
siting of buildings, parking areas, circulation and access, shared parking
facilities and ingress/egress arrangements, and elimination of multiple curb
cuts.
      (5)   Promote a pedestrian-friendly City Center environment through the
establishment of a safe, convenient and attractive pedestrian network.
      (6)   Allow the application of performance standards to development and
redevelopment so as to mitigate any adverse impacts on adjacent areas and the
overall district.
      (7)   Promote public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 3298. Passed 6-14-05.)
§ 154.10.472 APPLICATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES OF SITE DEVELOPMENT PLANS.
   (A)   Site Development Plan. A Site Development Plan as used herein, shall
mean a plan for the development and/or redevelopment of a specified parcel or
tract of real estate in the CC District. Development and/or redevelopment
activities subject to review and approval under this section shall include the
following:
      (1)   New construction.
      (2)   Additions to buildings or structures.
      (3)   Site improvements, including parking lots, driveways, curb cuts and
vehicular access.
      (4)   Signage in accordance with these regulations and the Sign Code,
Chapter 153.
      (5)   Screening landscaping in accordance with these regulations and the
Landscape Regulations, § 154.13.01.
   (B)   Site Development Plan Review and Approval.
      (1)   Before a permit is issued for the construction, reconstruction or
alteration of any building and/or development and redevelopment of property in
the CC District, detailed site plans, building plans, and elevations and such
other information necessary to determine compliance with the standards of the
District shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for approval.
      (2)   No such permit shall be issued without such approval. Approval may
be granted for the plans as submitted, or conditionally, subject to stated
modifications, or may be denied.
   (C)   Application Process. The application for a development under the City
Center District shall be made by the property owner, developer or his
authorized agent and shall be processed as follows:
      (1)   A pre-application meeting is encouraged to take place at the
Department of Planning and Economic Development between the applicant and the
Department Director in order to discuss the proposed development, the City’s
concerns, the submittal, review requirements, and application fees.
      (2)   Following the pre-application meeting, all applicants who wish to
obtain a permit for new construction, reconstruction or alterations, and
demolition of any buildings in the District may apply to the Department of
Planning and Economic Development for approval of a Site Development Plan and
submit the necessary copies of the Site Development Plan which shall include
the requirements for such plans set forth in these regulations.
   (D)   Application Review. The Planning and Economic Development Director
shall review the Site Development Plan and shall place the application along
with his report and recommendations and the other reviews and recommendations,
to the City Planning Commission’s agenda for its consideration.
   (E)   Planning Commission Action. The City Planning Commission shall
approve, approve with conditions the application, or disapprove the application
and shall state the reasons for doing so.
   (F)   Permit. Following the approval by the City Planning Commission, the
Department of Community Development shall issue the zoning certificate and
building permit after a valid application has been filed.
   (G)   Site Development Plan Submittal Requirements. The applicant for a
project within the CC District shall submit to the City’s Department of
Planning and Economic Development the necessary number of copies of all
required review material for the proposed project. The following information,
where applicable, shall be required to be submitted with the Site Development
Plan:
      (1)   Description of project and work involved.
      (2)   Applicant’s name (if different than the owner’s), address, and
telephone number.
      (3)   Application site location (street and street number).
      (4)   A legal description, dimensions and acreage of the subject property
for the proposed development, including property lines, easements, and features
existing thereon.
      (5)   A site plan at an appropriate scale, representing with exactitude
all existing and proposed buildings, structures, site engineering, pedestrian
amenities, signage, landscaping lighting, fencing, decks, patios, and other
features of the proposed development, and including the gross area of the
development in acres and square feet, and number of units and density in the
case of residential development.
      (6)   The location and dimension of all parking facilities, loading
facilities, vehicular and pedestrian ways; the vehicular and pedestrian traffic
patterns, including the proposed location and design of public and private
streets; the directional flow and location of existing and proposed storm and
sanitary sewers, and sewers connecting with existing or proposed municipal
interceptor, outlet, or trunk sewers outside the development area; the location
and design of parking service areas; and an estimate of traffic volumes to be
generated, including the assignment of traffic to proposed entrances and exits.
      (7)   The forms of covenants or declarations of covenants running with
the land, deed restrictions; covenants, restrictions or easements proposed to
be recorded; and covenants proposed for maintenance.
      (8)   Proposed grading, including first floor elevations, curbs,
sidewalk, retaining walls, (show height), gutters, walks, etc.
      (9)   Front, side, rear elevations at no less than 1/4" = 1'0" showing
exterior appearances, including exterior materials to be used including walls,
glass, railings, detailing, fencing, etc., and proposed color scheme,
foundation, and finish grade lines at the building.
      (10)   Building floor plans at no less than 1/4" = 1'0" scale showing
doors, windows, room sizes, proposed room uses, exterior decks and porches.
      (11)   Roof plan footprint showing basic elements, direction and slope of
drainage, and drainage system.
      (12)   A landscape plan, showing the location, type, and quantities of
landscaping and screening of the development including trees, flowers, shrubs
and grass, and open spaces.
      (13)   Proposed signs, including location, dimensions, size and
character.
      (14)   A schedule for construction and for the completion of the
development, including all public and private improvements in the development
area.
      (15)   Any other information, plans or studies as required by Planning
Commission.
(Ord. 3298. Passed 6-14-05.)
§ 154.10.473 USE REGULATIONS.
   Principal and accessory buildings, structures or premises shall be used and
buildings and structures shall be erected, altered or enlarged only for the
uses listed below.
   (A)   Principal Permitted Uses.
      (1)   Accessory buildings, structures and uses as regulated by Section
154.16.01.
      (2)   Animal hospital or veterinary clinic with indoor kennels or no
kennels.
      (3)   Animal training school, domestic, indoor, so long as the applicant
can demonstrate that animal waste will be accommodated to meet all requirements
of the Montgomery County Health District and the City of West Carrollton
Property Maintenance Code and Building Code.
      (4)   Auction house, defined as a place where objects of art, furniture,
and other goods and merchandise are offered for sale to persons who bid on the
object in competition with each other, and that take place entirely within a
building. Outdoor auctions, as well as auctions of livestock, motor vehicles,
or items which are inconsistent with the purpose and objectives of the City
Center District, are expressly prohibited.
      (5)   Building and related trades, not involving any exterior storage
areas.
      (6)   Call center, defined as a company phone center that offers
operator-supported voice services such as a help desk, customer support, lead
generation, emergency response, telephone answering service, inbound response
and outbound telemarketing.
      (7)   Conference center, defined as a facility used for conferences and
seminars, with accommodations for sleeping, food preparation and eating,
recreation, entertainment, resource facilities, and meeting rooms. Conference
centers shall not be utilized by the general public only for overnight
purposes. This use shall not include institutions meeting the definition of
"churches and other similar places of religious worship" as defined in Section
154.02.01, Definitions, and as prohibited in Section
154.10.473(B).
      (8)   Day care facility - child care center.
      (9)   Dwelling - above commercial structure.
      (10)   Dwelling - attached, detached, zero lot line homes and other
residential uses planned and designed along the "New Urbanism" principles of
compact form and architectural significance, with the density to be determined
by the Planning Commission. Such residential developments shall be in close
adherence and conformance to the requirements of Section
154.10.476(D), of these regulations. Residential developments planned and
designed along conventional subdivision standards shall not be permitted.
      (11)   Financial institution with or without drive-up.
      (12)   Fraternal lodges and private clubs.
      (13)   Home occupations subject to the conditions of Section
154.16.03.
      (14)   Home improvement centers, not involving any exterior storage
areas.
      (15)   Hospitals/urgent care centers.
      (16)   Lodging - bed and breakfast establishments.
      (17)   Lodging - hotels and motels.
      (18)   Manufacturing - light manufacturing, only on the following
properties: Carrollton Plaza, parcels K48 00509 0002 (1000 E. Central Avenue)
and K48 00509 0037 (1100 E. Central Avenue); and the old Woody's warehouse,
parcel K48 00111 0032 (61 Alexandersville- Bellbrook Road).
      (19)   Office - professional office/ business office.
      (20)   Parking, on-site.
      (21)   Parking, shared.
      (22)   Parkland - community parkland and public open space.
      (23)   Recreation - commercial recreation facilities.
      (24)   Recreation - community center/senior center.
      (25)   Recreation - health clubs with indoor facilities only/athletic
training facilities.
      (26)   Recreation - health clubs with outdoor facilities.
      (27)   Recreation - river-related recreational uses such as boat livery,
boat rentals, and other such similar nature uses.
      (28)   Recreation - theater.
      (29)   Restaurant - fast food restaurant with or without drive-up.
      (30)   Restaurant, sit-down.
      (31)   Retail - sales and services.
      (32)   School - business trade school/technical school.
      (33)   School - nursery school.
      (34)   Smoking establishment.
      (35)   Tavern.
      (36)   Warehousing - warehousing facility/wholesaling facility/
distribution facility, only on the following properties: Carrollton Plaza,
parcels K48 00509 0002 (1000 E. Central Avenue) and K48 00509 0037 (1100 E.
Central Avenue); and the old Woody's warehouse, parcel K48 00111 0032 (61
Alexandersville- Bellbrook Road). This use shall not involve overnight parking
of trucks, storage of materials that present hazards or offensive conditions,
external storage of material, or other external nuisances such as dust, noise
and odors.
      (37)   Mobile food vendors as provided in Section
154.16.11.
(A.O.; Ord. 3475. Passed 4-12-11; Ord. 3567. Passed 8- 25-15.)
   (B)   Prohibited Uses.
   All uses not specifically listed as a permitted use in Section
154.10.473(A) are prohibited within this District, unless determined by the
Planning Commission to be a Substantially Similar use to any use listed in
Section
154.10.473(A) as provided by Section
154.05.04(B)(2) and Section
154.07.01(B)(3). The following uses are expressly prohibited within this
District:
      (1)   Animal hospital or veterinary clinic with outdoor kennels.
      (2)   Animal kennels, outdoor.
      (3)   Automobile - convenience drive-thru.
      (4)   Automobile - convenience market/gas station mini-mart.
      (5)   Automobile fueling station.
      (6)   Automobile washing facility, full service.
      (7)   Automobile washing facility, self service.
      (8)   Automobile - service station/repair garage.
      (9)   Automobile - painting and body shop.
      (10)   Automotive wrecking yards.
      (11)   Building and related trades, not meeting the requirements of
Section
154.10.473(A)(4).
      (12)   Building materials - comtractor storage yard.
      (13)   Building materials - sales and storage yards.
      (14)   Churches and other similar places of religious worship.
      (15)   Farming and agricultural production, and related farm uses.
      (16)   Funeral homes and mortuaries.
      (17)   Junk yards.
      (18)   Lumber yards.
      (19)   Manufacturing - heavy manufacturing.
      (20)   Parking, commercial.
      (21)   Recreation - theater, drive-in.
      (22)   Resource and mineral extraction.
      (23)   Retail - nursery/garden center.
      (24)   Truck stop.
      (25)   Vehicle sales and service - agricultural implements/marine
equipment/manufacturd homes/industrialized units/travel trailers/heavy trucks/
recreational vehicles.
      (26)   Vehicle sales and service, automobile and motorcycle.
      (27)   Warehousing - mini warehouses/self- service storage facilities.
      (28)   Warehousing - warehousing facility/wholesaling facility/
distribution facility not meeting the requirements of Section
154.10.473(A)(35).
      (29)   Any other uses which are not compatible with the purpose and
objectives of these regulations as determined by the Planning Commission. (Ord.
3400. Passed 12-9-08.)
§ 154.10.474 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   Lawfully pre-existing lots, structures, and uses of land that do not conform
to the CC District regulations after the effective date of these regulations,
are considered non-conforming uses and shall be regulated in accordance with
the provisions of § 154.04.01. (Ord. 3298. Passed 6- 14-05.)
§ 154.10.475 CONDITIONS FOR REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   Site Development Plan Review Findings. The use of the property in the
CC District shall be in accordance with these regulations and the Site
Development Plan, and a permit shall be issued when the review has determined
that the proposed development by its nature, or by reason of the controls
imposed by the Planning Commission:
      (1)   Is not an adverse influence on any abutting or surrounding
properties;
      (2)   Serves to create a well-planned, visually appealing development
which will create a positive image for the City’s Center;
      (3)   Relates effectively ingress/egress to the development and to the
existing street system in terms of safety and ease of access;
      (4)   Is in full compliance with the purposes of this Zoning Code and
with the City Center District;
   (B)   Exceptions. The Planning Commission may authorize exceptions from
these regulations upon making findings that:
      (1)   A Site Development Plan proposed by an applicant, while not
strictly in accord with the regulations applying within the District, meets
public purposes, provides public protection, and conforms with the objectives
and principles of the CC District, or Comprehensive Plan; or
      (2)   In the particular circumstances of the case, strict application of
a particular regulation or regulations is not necessary for the accomplishment
of the public purposes or the provision of public protection, at the time or in
the future. (Ord. 3298. Passed 6-14-05.)
§ 154.10.476 STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES.
   Every application for a permit for the construction, reconstruction or
alteration of any building in the CC District shall be reviewed under these
guidelines, the Urban Design Plan, and the Comprehensive Plan. Applications
shall be approved if the Planning Commission finds that the guidelines and
recommendations of these plans have substantially been met. It is the
responsibility of the applicant to demonstrate compliance with these Standards
and Guidelines and the Conditions for Review and Approval, § 154.10.475.
   (A)   Building Placement.
      (1)   All buildings are encouraged to be be placed at or very close to
the street right-of-way line, their facades running parallel with the street,
except in cases where:
         (a)   The distance between the right of way and the street curb is
less than twelve feet, the building shall be moved back from the right of way
enough to establish the required twelve-foot distance for street sidewalk
space; and
         (b)   A utility easement running parallel with the street right of way
requires that no building can be constructed over it;
         (c)   The Service or Safety Director determines such a location will
be a hazard to traffic.
      (2)   Buildings at corner lots are encouraged to extend along both lot
frontages to the extent possible.
      (3)   Storefronts should be oriented towards the street, shall be
integrated with the sidewalk space, and shall afford direct pedestrian access
from the street sidewalk.
      (4)   Businesses should be designed to reinforce the pattern of small
storefront divisions facing the street.
(Ord. 3298. Passed 6-14-05.)
      (5)   Drive-up facilities shall be designed and located on the site so as
to be screened as much as possible from public view. Drive-in facilities are
permitted so long as the Planning Commission is satisfied that the general
purpose, objectives, and design standards and guidelines of the City Center
District are substantially met. Drive- thru facilites are prohibited.
(Ord. 3384. Passed 4-22-08.)
   (B)   Building Character.
      (1)   Ensure visual compatibility by discouraging the construction of new
buildings and the renovation and/or expansion of existing buildings which calls
attention to itself and significantly disrupts the establishment of unity and
form envisioned in the Plan.
      (2)   Discourage the construction of “big-box” type buildings which are
incompatible with the desired small scale and mass of retail tructures. If this
type of building is proposed, it should modify its form in order to be
articulated and subdivided into massing that is proportional to the mass and
scale of other small scale structures in the district.
   (C)   Building Height.
      (1)   Building height shall be 35 feet.
      (2)   Buildings in excess of 35 feet may be permitted depending on their
location in relation to the overall district, the predominant building form and
character, and visual compatibility with adjacent buildings.
   (D)   Housing Units Development and Site Planning.
      (1)   Housing units shall front along the street and public space shown
in the Alexandersville Square Redevelopment Plan in order to extend the urban
form and visual corridor connecting the business and commercial areas with the
riverfront.
      (2)   Housing development shall take place on the basis of a unified plan
in adherence with the urban design concepts shown in the Alexandersville Square
Redevelopment Plan.
      (3)   In the case where housing may be developed by more than one
developer, the plans shall be coordinated and their implementation shall result
in establishing the desired form, architectural character, visual corridor,
public open spaces and parking as recommended and as shown in the
Alexandersville Square Redevelopment Plan.
      (4)   Housing units shall only include attached, detached, zero-lot line,
and other similar- type units as described in Section
154.10.473(A)(7).
      (5)   Ground level commercial space is highly encouraged in a mixed
vertical arrangement with the housing units.
   (E)   Sidewalks and Pedestrian Amenity.
      (1)   Barrier-free pathways to accommodate the handicapped should be
provided from parking areas to various building destinations.
      (2)   The design and construction of all sidewalks shall aim at
establishing a uniform pedestrian network. Improvements to sidewalks and
pedestrian space by property owners shall conform to the standards and design
specifications established by the City.
   (F)   Parking and Loading.
      (1)   Parking within the District shall be computed on the basis of four
parking spaces required for 1,000 square feet of gross floor area of office and
commercial mixed uses, applied throughout the entire area. Reciprocal shared
off-site parking arrangements are highly encouraged and may, in certain cases,
be required as a condition of project approval.
      (2)   In the case of commercial/residential mixed use development,
parking shall be computed for each use and there shall be a separation between
the residential parking areas and those devoted to commercial users. Driveways
and access lanes may be combined and shall be clearly demarcated with proper
signage.
      (3)   Existing parking lots should be shared and made more efficient
through improved access and more efficient layout.
      (4)   Existing small, under utilized lots should be combined to create
larger more efficient parking areas.
      (5)   Parking lots should be located and should be designed so they do
not detract from the appearance of a site from streets or other public areas.
      (6)   Large, uninterrupted expanses of pavement should be avoided or
substantially mitigated by the careful location of green space and plant
materials within the parking lot.
      (7)   Loading areas should be visually unobtrusive and should be located
properly in order to minimize conflicts with vehicles or pedestrians.
   (G)   Vehicular Circulation, Joint and Cross Access.
      (1)   The location and design of driveway entrances to the property
should minimize conflict with off-site traffic, and should provide for a safe
transition into the parking lot.
      (2)   Creative site planning in building siting, circulation and access,
shared ingress/egress arrangements, and elimination of curb cuts should be
encouraged.
      (3)   Wherever possible, adjacent properties shall provide cross-access
to allow circulation between them.
      (4)   A system of joint-use driveways and cross-access easements should
be established wherever feasible. Property owners shall record an easement with
the deed allowing cross access to and from other properties served by the joint
use driveway and cross- access. The agreement will be recorded with the deed
specifying that the remaining access right along the thoroughfare will be
dedicated to the State or the City and pre-existing driveways will be closed
and eliminated after construction of the joint-use driveway.
   (H)   Lighting.
      (1)   Lighting should be used to illuminate important on-site elements
such as entrances, pedestrian pathways, and pedestrian spaces.
      (2)   The luminosity, orientation, and location of exterior light
fixtures should foster user safety and minimize vehicle/pedestrian conflicts.
      (3)   All outdoor lighting shall be designed, located, and mounted at
heights no greater than sixteen feet above grade for non-cutoff lights and
thirty-two feet above grade for cutoff lights.
      (4)   All outdoor lighting shall be located, screened or shielded so that
adjacent uses are not directly illuminated, especially in cases where
commercial uses abut or are in close proximity to residential uses.
      (5)   No outdoor lighting shall be of such an intensity or color
distortion as to cause glare or to impair the vision of pedestrians and/or
drivers.
   (I)   Screening and Landscaping.
      (1)   All landscape improvements within the right of way, parking areas,
screening, and selected private spaces shall be undertaken in accordance with
the City’s streetscape standards and Landscape Regulations of the Zoning Code,
Section
154.13.01.
      (2)   Green areas designed for the use and enjoyment of pedestrians
should consider visibility, accessibility, safety, location of seating, and
microclimate.
      (3)   Where appropriate, green areas should link major site destinations
such as buildings and parking areas.
   (J)   Signs.
      (1)   All signs within the district shall be reviewed and approved
according to the requirements of the City’s Sign Code, Chapter 153, and as
provided in these regulations.
      (2)   Signs should be designed to communicate with pedestrians or persons
in slow moving vehicles, and located to be visible under the street tree
canopy.
      (3)   Signs for the identification of tenants occupying the upper floors
of a building and/or for occupants of the building having no street frontage
should be permitted, if they comply with the following:
         (a)   One identifying plaque for each occupant having access to
premises at point of attachment. Height of plaque is optional. Width of plaque
may not exceed width of surface of attachment. Maximum area is three square
feet. Plaque shall be placed flat on the building’s wall.
         (b)   All plaques shall be placed adjacent to building entrance. Where
more than one plaque is placed at an entrance, the total group is to be related
in an orderly and integrated manner in one or more vertical columns but no more
than two columns, with common vertical centerlines. The horizontal centerline
of each group must be 5'0" above the average grade level.
         (c)   Plaques may be of any cast metal, of any natural stone or wood,
or other appropriate material.
         (d)   Letters or characters shall not exceed two and one-half inches
in height; symbols may not exceed eight inches in height; all letters and
symbols shall be integral with the base material or painted on the base (in the
case of wood). No more than three lines of letters should be used. No
internally illuminated plaques shall be used.
   (K)   Dumpsters. 
      (1)   Dumpsters shall be located at the rear side of buildings away from
pedestrian pathways, shall be screened from public view, and shall be easily
accessible for service.
      (2)   Dumpster enclosures shall be constructed in direct coordination
with the principal structures with regard to materials and color.
(Ord. 3298. Passed 6-14-05.)
§ 154.10.477 REVISIONS OF FINAL SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN AFTER APPROVAL.
   No changes, erasures, modifications or revisions shall be made to any Site
Development Plan after final approval has been given unless said changes,
erasures, modifications or revisions are first submitted to and approved by the
City’s Planning and Economic Development Director. In determining whether to
permit revision(s) of a Site Development Plan after approval, the Planning and
Economic Development Director shall proceed as follows:
   (A)   Minor Modifications. For minor modifications, which are defined as
being of a non- substantive nature in one or more of the project’s elements as
shown in the plan, the Planning and Economic Development Director may permit
these minor modifications upon determination that the changes do not adversely
impact upon adjacent properties, and they do not violate the purposes,
objectives, standards and guidelines of CC District, and the goals and
objectives of the City’s Comprehensive and Urban Design Plans.
   (B)   Major Modifications. For major modifications which call for
substantive changes to one or more of the project’s elements as shown in the
plan, the applicant shall submit a new Site Development Plan which shall
require approval by the Planning Commission and shall be reviewed according to
the requirements and procedures of this District. Major modifications shall
include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   An increase in gross floor area.
      (2)   An increase in density.
      (3)   Additions and major modifications to the approved buildings.
      (4)   Major changes to the buildings’ character and form.
      (5)   Major changes to the vehicular and/or pedestrian circulation
systems, ingress/egress, and parking.
      (6)   Major changes to the screening and landscaping improvements.
      (7)   Any other major changes to the project elements as approved and are
part of the record of the Site Development Plan.
(Ord. 3298. Passed 6-14-05.)
§ 154.10.478 ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN STANDARDS.
   New buildings and major facade alterations shall be constructed in
accordance with the specifications of Section
154.17.01, Architectural Design Standards. (Ord. 3419. Passed 4-28-09.)
§ 154.10.479 GUARANTEE FOR INSTALLATION OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   All site improvements shall conform to the approved site plan and
construction plans.
   (B)   To provide assurance to the City that public improvements will be
completed once construction has begun, the developer shall furnish a bond
executed by a surety company, letter of credit, or certified check equal to the
cost of construction of such public improvements as shown on the approved
plans, and based on an estimate approved by the City Manager as advised by the
Service Director and in a form approved by the Law Director. Such surety shall
be provided prior to issuance of a building permit for the project. Letters of
credit shall not permit draws by the developer without the express approval of
the City.
      (1)   For the purposes of this section, construction shall be defined as
any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate related to one or
more of the following public improvements: earth-disturbing activities
including clearing, excavating, filling, and grading of property; driveway
approaches; sidewalks; street surfacing; curbs, gutters, and public sanitary
sewers; public water supply; stormwater detention facilities; stormwater best
management practices for runoff quality; and street signs.
   (C)   The performance bond, letter of credit, or certified check shall run
to the City and shall provide that the developer, his heirs, successors and
assigns, their agent or servants, upon commencement of construction, will
comply with all applicable terms, conditions, provisions and requirements of
these regulations; will faithfully perform and complete the work of
constructing and installing all public improvements in accordance with such
laws and regulations; will complete all public improvements prior to issuance
of a final occupancy permit for the project; and will complete all public
improvements within one (1) year from the date of final approval of the
building permit, but the bond or letter of credit will run indefinitely until
released by the City. In no case shall the work be completed after one (1) year
from the date of final approval of the building permit, unless an extension is
granted by the City as specified below.
   (D)   Upon commencement of construction, if the installation of any public
improvement, for which guarantee has been made by the developer in the form of
bond, letter of credit, or certified check, is not completed within one (1)
year from the date of final approval of the building permit, the developer may
request the City to grant an extension of six (6) months, provided (s)he can
show reasonable cause for inability to complete said public improvement(s)
within the required one (1) year. A maximum of two six-month extensions may be
granted. At the expiration of the extension(s), the City will use as much of
the bond, letter of credit, or certified check as necessary to complete the
construction of the public improvements.
   (E)   All public improvements located within the public right-of-way shall
be completed within 14 days of initial excavation, unless an extension is
granted for reasonable cause by the City Manager as advised by the Service
Director and Director of City Planning.
   (F)   As required public improvements are completed, approved, and accepted,
the City Manager, as advised by the Service Director and Director of City
Planning, may reduce the amount of the performance bond, letter of credit, or
certified check.
   (G)   Periodic inspections during the installation of public improvements
shall be made by the City to ensure conformity with the approved plans and
specifications as required by these regulations.
   (H)   The developer shall schedule required inspections at least forty-eight
(48) hours in advance with proper administrative officials.
   (I)   The absence of an inspector from a project during construction shall
not relieve the developer from full responsibility under this agreement. Upon
acceptable completion of installation of the required public improvements, the
City Manager as advised by the Service Director and Director of City Planning
shall issue a letter to the developer or his/her agent and such letter shall be
sufficient evidence for the release by the City.
   (J)   When the Service Director and Director of City Planning, following
final inspection of a project, certify to the City Manager that all public
improvements have been constructed in accordance with City specifications, the
City Manager may proceed to accept the facilities for which bond, letter of
credit, or certified check has been posted.
   (K)   Whenever public improvements have not been constructed in accordance
with the agreement and with specifications as established, the City Manager as
advised by the Service Director and Director of City Planning may exercise his/
her rights of foreclosure under the bond, letter of credit, or certified check.
   (L)   Should construction not commence prior to expiration of the building
permit and any extensions granted in accordance with this section, the
performance bond, letter of credit, or certified check shall be released in its
entirety by the City.
(Ord. 3477. Passed 4-12-11.)
H HERITAGE DISTRICT
§ 154.10.481 H HERITAGE SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   The purpose of the H District is to designate and reserve certain land areas
for single-family detached dwellings at low-medium densities, while maintaining
the architectural heritage of the City=s Queen Anne Historic District.
§ 154.10.482 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Accessory building and structures as regulated by § 154.16.01.
   (B)   Accessory uses as regulated by § 154.16.01.
   (C)   Day care facility - Type B family day care home.
   (D)   Dwelling - Single-family, detached.
   (E)   Group home - Adult family home.
   (F)   Group home - Community alternative home.
   (G)   Group home - Foster care facility/Certified family foster home.
   (H)   Group home - MR/DD family care facility.
   (I)   Home occupations subject to the conditions of § 154.16.03.
   (J)   Parking, On-site.
   (K)   Parkland - Community parkland and public open space.
   (L)   Subdivision, Conventional residential.
§ 154.10.483 CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES.
   Subject to general conditions and supplemental requirements in this Chapter.
   (A)   Funeral Homes and Mortuaries
   (B)   Lodging - Bed and breakfast establishment.
   (C)   Public utility substation and transmission facilities.
   (D)   School - Nursery school.
   (E)   School - Private school/Primary school/Intermediate school/Secondary
school.
§ 154.10.484 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The provisions of § 154.16.01 and other regulations in this Chapter shall
apply to the location and maintenance of accessory uses, buildings, and related
structures.
§ 154.10.485 MINIMUM ZONING LOT SIZE.
   (A)   Single-family Dwellings: 7,500 square feet.
   (B)   Other Permitted Uses: one acre.
§ 154.10.486 MINIMUM FRONTAGE.
   (A)   Single-family Dwellings: 60 feet.
   (B)   Other Permitted Uses: 150 feet.
§ 154.10.487 MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum front yard.
      (1)   Residential Uses: 35 feet.
      (2)   Residential uses in which the average existing front yard setback
on two or more lots located within 100 feet and in the same block as the lot in
question is either less or greater than the minimum front yard requirements
specified in § 154.10.067(A)(1) or (2), the front yard requirement shall be
modified as follows:
         (a)   The modified front yard shall not be less than the average
setback of the existing front yards of the two lots immediately adjacent to the
lot in question, or if a corner lot, then the same as the setback on the
immediately adjacent lot.
         (b)   In no case shall any front yard be modified to require less than
ten feet.
      (4)   Other Permitted Uses: 40 feet.
      (5)   Corner Lots.
         (a)   On all corner lots, all yards which front on streets shall be
considered front yards, and as such shall meet the minimum front yard
requirements specified in § 154.10.067(A)(1) to (4).
         (b)   On all lots having frontage on two streets which do not
intersect, the minimum front yard setback specified in § 154.10.067(A)(1) to
(4) shall apply to each yard with street frontage.
   (B)   Minimum for each side yard.
      (1)   Residential Uses: 8 feet.
      (2)   Residential uses in which the average existing side yard setback on
two or more lots located within 100 feet and in the same block as the lot in
question is less than 8 feet, then the side yard setback requirement shall be
modified as follows:
         (a)   The modified side yard shall not be less than the average
setback of the existing side yards of the two lots immediately adjacent to the
lot in question, or if a corner lot, then the same as the setback on the
immediately adjacent lot.
         (b)   In no case shall any side yard be modified to require less than
four (4) feet.
      (3)   Other Permitted Uses: 20 feet.
   (C)   Minimum rear yard.
      (1)   Residential Uses, 40 feet. Any one-story section of a single-family
residence may project not more than ten feet into the required rear yard.
      (2)   Other Permitted Uses: 50 feet.
§ 154.10.488 MAXIMUM AND MINIMUM HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Maximum Height: 35 feet or 2-1/2 stories.
   (B)   Minimum Height: two (2) stories.
§ 154.10.489 REQUIRED MINIMUM DWELLING SIZE.
   The minimum dwelling size shall be governed by the West Carrollton Property
Maintenance Code (Chapter 158), which seeks to prevent overcrowding through
minimum space requirements based on occupancy limitations.
§ 154.10.490 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking or loading shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions specified in § 154.12.01.
§ 154.10.491 SIGNS.
   Refer to Chapter 153.
§ 154.10.492 DESIGN REVIEW REGULATIONS.
   The purpose of these West Carrollton Heritage District Design Review
Regulations are:
   (A)   To safeguard the architectural integrity and cohesiveness of the
oldest buildings and parts of the community important to the City=s history in
order to contribute to the economic, recreational, cultural, and educational
development of the City of West Carrollton;
   (B)   To maintain and enhance property values to promote the use of,
facilitate reinvestment in, and stimulate revitalization of buildings and areas
found to have historic architectural significance; and
   (C)   To provide controls and procedural standards for the appropriate
rehabilitation and preservation of older homes in historically significant
areas and to encourage the development of vacant properties in accordance with
the character of these areas.
§ 154.10.493 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply only to the provisions of the West
Carrollton Heritage District Design Review Regulations of the City of West
Carrollton Zoning Code:
   ALTER or ALTERATION. Any material change in an external architectural
feature of any property which lies within the West Carrollton Heritage
District, including demolition, removal, construction, modification to roofs,
windows, siding, awnings/canopies, additions, doors, entrances, but not
including the landscaping of real property and painting.
   APPLICANT. Any owner, owners, person(s), association, partnership, or
corporation who applies for a Certificate of Appropriateness in order to
undertake any change on property subject to these West Carrollton Heritage
District Design Review Regulations.
   EXTERNAL ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE. The architectural style, general design and
arrangement of the exterior of a structure including, but not limited to the
type of building material, doors, windows, roof, porches and other appurtenant
fixtures.
   WEST CARROLLTON HERITAGE DISTRICT. Any area within the corporate limits of
the City of West Carrollton, Ohio, designated by Council to be subject to the
provisions of these West Carrollton Heritage District Design Review
Regulations.
§ 154.10.494 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE DESIGN REVIEW ARCHITECT.
   (A)   In order to carry out the efficient review of applications subject to
the Heritage District Design Regulations, the city shall contract with an
Architect familiar with the style and construction of historic structures, and
licensed as an Architect by the
State of Ohio.
   (B)   Within the boundaries of the West Carrollton Heritage District subject
to design review, the Design Review Architect shall review any proposed new
construction of a new principal structures, an addition to a principle
structure, and all demolition permits
   (C)   After review of the plans for the new construction, addition, or
demolition, the Design Review Architect shall prepare a written report to the
Zoning Enforcement Officer giving his professional opinion about whether the
plans meet the Specific Architectural Design Guidelines contained in Section §
154.15.05.
§ 154.10.495 TRIGGERING MECHANISM FOR DESIGN REVIEW.
   (A)   An application for a Certificate of Appropriateness issued by the
Zoning Enforcement Officer shall be required for all property located within
the West Carrollton Heritage District for the following activities:
      (1)   New construction of a principle structure; or
      (2)   Additions to principle structures; or
      (3)   Demolition of principle structures.
   (B)   Whenever an applicant applies for a Zoning Certificate, the permit
application will be deemed as an application for a Certificate of
Appropriateness.
§ 154.10.496 SPECIFIC ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN GUIDELINES.
   (A)   In reviewing proposed alterations to property, the Design Review
Architect and Zoning Enforcement Officer shall utilize the following guidelines
in their review and deliberation:
      (1)   New construction of a principle structure.
         (a)   The pattern of houses on a street is as significant as the
design and construction of individual houses. A building=s relationship to its
neighbors reflects part of its own identity. New structures should borrow
elements from the block face to maintain unity
         (b)   Compatible characteristics begin with building proportion and
shape. New construction should maintain the proportions of wall height and
length, window and door opening sizes, and roof height and pitch. New
construction which does not maintain the architectural rhythm of the street
scape is prohibited.
         (c)   Detailing on a new principal structure shall be sympathetic in
design, scale and materials, but does not need to replicate that of the
historic architecture of the block.
      (2)   Additions to principle structures.
[IMAGE]
         (a)   Compatible characteristics begin with building proportion and
shape. Additions should maintain the proportions of the original structure in
relation to wall height and length, window and door opening sizes, and roof
height and pitch.
[IMAGE]
         (b)   Contemporary design for alterations and additions to existing
properties shall not be discouraged when such alterations and additions do not
destroy significant historical, architectural, or cultural materials, and such
design is compatible with the size, scale, color, material, and character of
the property, neighborhood, or environment.
[IMAGE]
 
         (c)   Whenever possible, new additions or alterations to structures
shall be done in such a manner that if such additions or alterations were to be
removed in the future, the essential form and integrity of the structure would
be unimpaired.
         (d)   The distinguishing original qualities or character of a building
or structure shall not be destroyed. The removal or alteration of historic
material or distinctive architectural features should be avoided when possible.
         (e)   Distinctive stylistic features or examples of skilled
craftsmanship which characterize a building, structure, or site shall be
treated with sensitivity.
         (f)   Construction materials should be compatible with the original
structure=s materials. The original structure=s architectural fabric should
dictate the materials to be used for the addition.
         (g)   No additions shall be made to the front of a structure.
      (3)   Demolition of principle structures. A demolition permit shall not
be issued by the Building Inspector unless accompanied by an approved
Certificate of Appropriateness. Such a Certificate of appropriateness shall be
issued by the Zoning Enforcement Officer, after review and comment by the
Design Review Architect, only if the applicant has given clear evidence that
one of the following conditions exist:
         (a)   The structure has incurred extensive damage to its basic
structural elements such as the roof, walls, and foundation requiring
substantial reconstruction and presents an immediate danger to the public
safety as declared by the Chief Building Inspector; or
         (b)   The structure has been declared a public nuisance under Section
150.70 of the West Carrollton Code of Ordinances; or
         (c)   The structure is not consistent with other structures in the
district in terms of historic character, architectural style, construction
material, height, setback, mass or use; or
         (d)   The square foot cost of meeting the minimum building code would
exceed the square foot market value of similarly used and improved structures
in the district. If the applicant applies for the removal of a structure in
accordance with this section, the following evidence shall be submitted to the
Zoning Enforcement Officer:
            1)   An itemized cost estimate provided by a qualified architect,
engineer, or contractor indicating those items required to meet the minimum
building code; and
            2)   A market analysis by an appraiser or qualified real estate
professional indicating the square foot value of similarly used and improved
structures in the district; and
            3)   A demolition cost estimate.
§ 154.10.497 LIMITATION ON ISSUANCE OF ZONING & DEMOLITION PERMITS
   No Zoning Certificate shall be issued by the Zoning Enforcement Officer, nor
a Demolition Permit shall be issued by the Building Inspector, for new
construction or demolition of any principle structure within the West
Carrollton Heritage District prior to obtaining a Certificate of
Appropriateness. No Zoning Certificate may be issued by the Zoning Enforcement
Officer unless the requirements outlined below are met in full.
§ 154.10.498 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   When the owner of a property within the West Carrollton Heritage
District proposes new construction to, or demolition of, any portion of a
principle structure within the Heritage District, they shall first apply for
and secure a Certificate of Appropriateness from the Zoning Enforcement Officer
in accordance with the triggering requirements of § 154.15.04. The application
for a Certificate of Appropriateness shall be made through the Building
Inspector, together with such plans, specifications, and other material as the
Design Review Architect and Zoning Enforcement Officer may need to adequate
review the application for compliance with these regulations.
   (B)   If the proposed new construction or demolition is determined by the
Zoning Enforcement Officer, after review and comment by the Design Review
Architect, to have no adverse effect on the West Carrollton Heritage District
and does not violate the spirit and purpose of these regulations, then the
Zoning Enforcement Officer shall issue the Certificate of Appropriateness.
   (D)   If the Zoning Enforcement Officer, after review and comment by the
Design Review Architect, determines that the proposed new construction or
demolition will have an adverse effect on the West Carrollton Heritage
District, and does violate the spirit and purposes of these regulations, then
the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall deny issuance of the Certificate of
Appropriateness.
   (E)   In the event that the Zoning Enforcement Officer determines that a
Certificate of Appropriateness shall not be issued, they shall notify the
applicant and the Building Inspector in writing of the reasons for such
determination.
§ 154.10.499 PENALTIES.
   Whoever constructs, reconstructs, alters, changes, or demolishes any
exterior feature of any structure, work of art, object, or area in violation of
these West Carrollton Heritage District Design Review Regulations shall be
deemed in violation of the Municipal Code and such violation shall be
punishable under § 154.05.09 of the Municipal Code.
§ 154.10.500 MINIMUM MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENT.
   The owner of an historic structure or any structure within the West
Carrollton Heritage District shall provide sufficient maintenance and upkeep
for such structure to ensure its perpetuation and to prevent its destruction by
deterioration, whether the building is vacant or inhabited.
§ 154.10.501 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of these West Carrollton Heritage District Design Review
Regulations or the application thereof is held invalid, such invalidity shall
not affect other provisions or applications of these regulations which can be
given effect without the invalid provision or application and to this end the
provisions of these West Carrollton Heritage District Design Review Regulations
are hereby declared severable.
§ 154.10.502 OTHER REGULATIONS.
   Refer to Sections
154.11.01 through
154.16.09.
HISTORY: (Newly Proposed)
M-1 BUSINESS PARK DISTRICT
§ 154.10.601 M-1 BUSINESS PARK DISTRICT.
   The purpose of the M-1 Business Park District is:
   (A)   To designate and reserve certain land areas exclusively for the
development of industrial parks, certain light manufacturing uses, warehousing,
wholesaling and distribution facilities, and their related accessory buildings,
and uses, which will not adversely affect their surroundings;
   (B)   To insure that these areas have adequate access, and can be served
with necessary utilities, and that these areas will constitute areas of sound
development which are free from objectionable influences in both operation and
appearance.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.27; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.602 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Accessory building and structures as regulated by § 154.16.01.
   (B)   Accessory uses as regulated by § 154.16.01.
   (C)   Contractor office.
   (D)   Contractor shop.
   (E)   Contractor storage yard.
   (F)   Farming and agricultural production, and related farm uses.
   (G)   Financial institution with drive-in.
   (H)   Financial institution without drive-in.
   (I)   Hospitals/Urgent care centers.
   (J)   Manufacturing – Light manufacturing
   (K)   Office – Professional office/Business office.
   (L)   Parking, On-site.
   (M)   Parkland – Community parkland and public open space.
   (N)   Recreation – Health Clubs with indoor facilities only/Athletic
training facilities.
   (O)   Recreation – Industrial recreation sites.
   (P)   Recreation – Private, noncommercial areas and facilities.
   (Q)   School – Business trade school/Technical school.
   (R)   Wireless telecommunications facility.
   (S)   Mobile food vendors, as provided in Section
154.16.11. (Ord. 3475. Passed 4-12-11; Ord. 3592. Passed 10- 11-16.)
§ 154.10.603 CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES.
   Subject to general conditions and supplemental requirements in this Chapter.
   (A)   Automobile detailing shop.
   (B)   Contractor sales and storage yard.
   (C)   Day care facility – Child day care center.
   (D)   Other permitted uses listed in the O or B-1 Districts, when these uses
are compatible or supplementary to existing industrial or office development
within the zoning district, subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Conditionally permitted uses listed in the O or B-1 Districts are
not permitted in the M-1 District.
      (2)   The amount of the M-1 District that can be used in this manner is
limited to the 10% of the M-1 District in which the proposed use would be
located.
      (3)   The amount of the M-1 District that can be used in this manner is
limited to no mor than 25% of permitted M-1 District uses already constructed.
   (E)   Parking, Commercial
   (F)   Parking, Shared.
   (G)   Public utility substation and transmission facilities.
   (H)   School – Nursery school.
   (I)   Truck stop.
   (J)   Warehousing – Mini-warehouses/Self-service storage facilities.
   (K)   Warehousing – Warehousing facility/Wholesaling facility/Distribution
facility.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.29)
(Ord. 3591. Passed 10-11-16; Ord. 3592. Passed 10-11- 16.)
§ 154.10.604 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The provisions of § 154.16.01 and other regulations in this Chapter shall
apply to the location and maintenance of accessory uses, buildings, and related
structures.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.29.1; Ord. 2909, passed 10-5-93)
§ 154.10.605 MINIMUM ZONING LOT SIZE.
   (A)   Industrial Parks: five acres.
   (B)   Individual Sites Within the Industrial Park: 15,000 square feet.
   (C)   Industrial Recreation Sites: one acre.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.30)
§ 154.10.606 MINIMUM FRONTAGE.
   (A)   Industrial Parks, 350 feet.
   (B)   Individual Sites Within the Industrial Park: 75 feet.
   (C)   Industrial recreation sites, 150 feet.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.31)
§ 154.10.607 MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum Front Yard.
      Twenty-five (25) feet.
      On all corner lots, all yards which front on streets shall be considered
front yards, and as such shall meet the minimum front yard requirement.
      On all lots having frontage on two streets which do not intersect, the
minimum front yard requirement shall apply to each yard with street frontage.
   (B)   Minimum Side Yard.
      Fifteen (15) feet.
   (C)   Minimum Rear Yard.
      Twenty-five (25) feet, except where the rear yard abuts a residential
zoning district in which case the rear yard shall be not less than forty (40)
feet. (Ord. 3615. Passed 9-12-17.)
§ 154.10.608 MAXIMUM LOT COVERAGE.
   The maximum lot coverage limitation is 60%.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed)
§ 154.10.609 MAXIMUM HEIGHT.
   Maximum height in this district is 45 feet or four stories. HISTORY:
(Formerly § 154.32)
§ 154.10.610 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking or loading shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions specified in § 154.12.01.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.34; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.611 SIGNS.
   Refer to Chapter 153.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154. 35; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82)
§ 154.10.612 OTHER REGULATIONS.
   Refer to Sections
154.11.01 through
154.16.09.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.36; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am. Ord. 3082, passed
2-24-98)
§ 154.10.613 ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN STANDARDS.
   New buildings and major facade alterations shall be constructed in
accordance with the specifications of Section
154.17.01, Architectural Design Standards. (Ord. 3419. Passed 4-28-09.)
M-2 MANUFACTURING DISTRICT
§ 154.10.621 M-2 MANUFACTURING DISTRICT.
   The purpose of the M-2 Manufacturing District is:
   (A)   To reflect the existing pattern of industrial and related development
within the community; and
   (B)   To designate and reserve certain land areas exclusively for industrial
development, manufacturing, warehousing, wholesaling, and related activities
which will not adversely affect their surroundings;
   (C)   To insure that these areas have adequate access, and can be served
with necessary utilities.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.17-2; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am. Ord. 2327, passed
7-13-82)
§ 154.10.622 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Accessory building and structures as regulated by § 154.16.01.
   (B)   Accessory uses as regulated by § 154.16.01.
   (C)   Contractor office
   (D)   Contractor shop
   (E)   Contractor storage yard
   (F)   Contractor sales and storage yard
   (G)   Dwelling – Expansion of single-family residential dwellings
constructed prior to July 13, 1982 to an extent not exceeding 50% of the gross
floor area of the existing principal structure.
   (H)   Farming and agricultural production, and related farm uses.
   (I)   Manufacturing – Heavy manufacturing.
   (J)   Parking, On-site.
   (K)   Parkland – Community parkland and public open space.
   (L)   Recreation – Industrial recreation sites.
   (M)   Recreation – Private, noncommercial areas and facilities.
   (N)   School – Business trade school/Technical school.
   (O)   Truck stop.
   (P)   Warehousing – Mini-warehouses/Self-service storage facilities.
   (Q)   Warehousing – Warehousing facility/Wholesaling facility/Distribution
facility.
   (R)   Wireless telecommunications facility.
(Ord. 3309. Passed 11-8-05.)
§ 154.10.624 Zoning Code 86E
   (S)   Mobile food vendors, as provided in Section
 154.16.11. (Ord. 3475. Passed 4-12-11; Ord. 3592. Passed 10-11-16.)
§ 154.10.623 CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES.
   Subject to general conditions and supplemental requirements in this Chapter.
   (A)   Automotive wrecking yards.
   (B)   Junk yards.
   (C)   Office – Professional office/Business office in conjunction with mini-
warehouses.
   (D)   Parking, Commercial.
(E)   Parking, Shared.
   (F)   Public utility substation and transmission facilities.
   (G)   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Former subsection (G) was repealed by Ordinance 3475,
passed April 12, 2011.)
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.19-2)
§ 154.10.624 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The provisions of § 154.16.01 and other regulations in this Chapter shall
apply to the location and maintenance of accessory uses, buildings, and related
structures.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.19-2.1 ; Ord. 2909, passed 10-5-93)
§ 154.10.625 MINIMUM ZONING LOT SIZE.
   Industrial and Manufacturing Uses; Industrial Recreation Sites; Warehousing,
Wholesaling Facilities; Building Materials Sales and Storage Yards: 43,560
square feet (one acre).
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.20-2; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am.
Ord. 2327, passed 7-13-82)
§ 154.10.626 MINIMUM FRONTAGE.
   Industrial and Manufacturing Uses; Industrial Recreation Sites; Warehousing,
Wholesaling Facilities; Building Materials Sales and Storage Yards: 150 feet.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.21-2; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am.
Ord. 2327, passed 7-13-82)
§ 154.10.627 MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum Front Yard.
      Forty (40) feet.
      On all corner lots, all yards which front on streets shall be considered
front yards, and as such shall meet the minimum front yard requirements.
      On all lots having frontage on two streets which do not intersect, the
minimum front yard requirement shall apply to each yard with street frontage.
   (B)   Minimum Side Yard.
      Fifteen (15) feet.
   (C)   Minimum Rear Yard. 
      Ten (10) feet, except where the rear yard abuts a residential zoning
district in which case the rear yard shall be not less than forty (40) feet.
(Ord. 3615. Passed 9-12-17.)
§ 154.10.628 MAXIMUM LOT COVERAGE.
   The maximum lot coverage limitation is 40%.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed)
§ 154.10.629 MAXIMUM HEIGHT.
   Maximum height in this district is 65 feet or four stories.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.22-2; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am. Ord. 2327, passed
7-13-82; Am. Ord. 3438, passed 1-26-10.)
§ 154.10.630 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking or loading shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions specified in § 154.12.01.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.24-2; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am. Ord. 2327, passed
7-13-82)
§ 154.10.631 SIGNS.
   Refer to Chapter 153.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.25-2; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am. Ord. 2327, passed
7-13-82)
§ 154.10.632 OTHER REGULATIONS.
   Refer to Sections
154.11.01 through
154.16.09. HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.26-2; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am. Ord.
2327, passed 7-13-82; Am. Ord. 3082, passed 2-24-98)
§ 154.10.633 ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN STANDARDS.
   New buildings and major facade alterations shall be constructed in
accordance with the specifications of Section
154.17.01, Architectural Design Standards.
(Ord. 3616. Passed 9-12-17.)
M-3 RURAL MANUFACTURING DISTRICT
§ 154.10.651 M-3 RURAL MANUFACTURING DISTRICT.
   The purpose of the M-3 Manufacturing District is:
   (A)   To reflect the existing pattern of industrial and related development
within the community; and
   (B)   To designate and reserve certain land areas exclusively for industrial
development, manufacturing, warehousing, wholesaling, and related activities
which will not adversely affect their surroundings;
   (C)   To insure that these areas have adequate access, and can be served
with necessary utilities.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.17-2; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am. Ord. 2327, passed
7-13-82)
§ 154.10.652 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Accessory building and structures as regulated by § 154.16.01.
   (B)   Accessory uses as regulated by § 154.16.01.
   (C)   Contractor office.
   (D)   Contractor shop.
   (E)   Contractor storage yard.
   (F)   Contractor sales and storage yard.
   (G)   Dwelling – Expansion of single-family residential dwellings
constructed prior to July 13, 1982 to an extent not exceeding 50% of the gross
floor area of the existing principal structure.
   (H)   Farming and agricultural production, and related farm uses.
   (I)   Manufacturing – Heavy manufacturing.
   (J)   Parking, On-site.
   (K)   Parkland – Community parkland and public open space.
   (L)   Recreation – Industrial recreation sites.
   (M)   Recreation – Private, noncommercial areas and facilities.
   (N)   School – Business trade school/Technical school.
   (O)   Truck stop.
   (P)   Warehousing – Mini-warehouses/Self-service storage facilities.
   (Q)   Warehousing – Warehousing facility/Wholesaling facility/Distribution
facility.
   (R)   Wireless telecommunications facility.
(Ord. 3309. Passed 11-8-05.)
   (S)   Mobile food vendors, as provided in Section
154.16.11. (Ord. 3475. Passed 4-12-11; Ord. 3592. Passed 10-11-16.)
§ 154.10.653 CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES.
   Subject to general conditions and supplemental requirements in this Chapter.
   (A)   Automotive wrecking yards.
   (B)   Junk yards.
   (C)   Office – Professional office/Business office in conjunction with mini-
warehouses.
   (D)   Parking, Commercial.
   (E)   Parking, Shared.
   (F)   Public utility substation and transmission facilities.
   (G)   Resource and mineral extraction.
   (H)   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Former subsection (h) was repealed by Ordinance 3475,
passed April 12, 2011.)
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.19-2)
§ 154.10.654 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The provisions of § 154.16.01 and other regulations in this Chapter shall
apply to the location and maintenance of accessory uses, buildings, and related
structures.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.19-2.1 ; Ord. 2909, passed 10-5-93)
§ 154.10.655 MINIMUM ZONING LOT SIZE.
   Industrial and Manufacturing Uses; Industrial Recreation Sites; Warehousing,
Wholesaling Facilities; Building Materials Sales and Storage Yards: 43,560
square feet (one acre).
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.20-2; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am.
Ord. 2327, passed 7-13-82)
§ 154.10.656 MINIMUM FRONTAGE.
   Industrial and Manufacturing Uses; Industrial Recreation Sites; Warehousing,
Wholesaling Facilities; Building Materials Sales and Storage Yards: 150 feet.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed; Formerly § 154.21-2; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am.
Ord. 2327, passed 7-13-82)
§ 154.10.657 MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum Front Yard.
      Forty (40) feet.
      On all corner lots, all yards which front on streets shall be considered
front yards, and as such shall meet the minimum front yard requirements.
      On all lots having frontage on two streets which do not intersect, the
minimum front yard requirement shall apply to each yard with street frontage.
   (B)   Minimum Side Yard.
      Twenty (20) feet.
   (C)   Minimum Rear Yard.
      Ten (10) feet, except where the rear yard abuts a residential zoning
district in which case the rear yard shall be not less than forty (40) feet.
(Ord. 3615. Passed 9-12-17.)
§ 154.10.658 MAXIMUM LOT COVERAGE.
   The maximum lot coverage limitation is 40%.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed)
§ 154.10.659 MAXIMUM HEIGHT.
   Maximum height in this district is 45 feet or four stories.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.22-2; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am. Ord. 2327, passed
7-13-82)
§ 154.10.660 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking or loading shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions specified in § 154.12.01.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.24-2; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am. Ord. 2327, passed
7-13-82)
§ 154.10.661 SIGNS.
   Refer to Chapter 153.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.25-2; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am. Ord. 2327, passed
7-13-82)
§ 154.10.662 OTHER REGULATIONS.
   Refer to Sections
154.11.01 through
154.16.09. HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.26-2; Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am. Ord.
2327, passed 7-13-82; Am. Ord. 3082, passed 2-24-98)
§ 154.10.663 ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN STANDARDS.
   New buildings and major facade alterations shall be constructed in
accordance with the specifications of Section
154.17.01, Architectural Design Standards. (Ord. 3419. Passed 4-28-09.)
PUD PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
§ 154.10.701 PUD PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   The purpose of the PUD Planned Unit Development District is to encourage
imaginative and creative urban design that might not otherwise be possible with
conventional zoning districts. The PUD should be a well-integrated development
in terms of major design elements such as land uses, building mass,
circulation, utilities, and open space. PUD’s are specifically applicable in
the following circumstances;
   (A)   In areas having substantial or special public interest towards
protecting the existing or proposed character of development, or of major
scenic views of, for, or through the area;
   (B)   Surrounding individual public or private buildings or grounds whose
uniqueness or aesthetic appeal creates a substantial or special public
interest. Such districts and the regulations established therein shall be in
accord and promote the goals and objectives of the Comprehensive Plan and other
officially adopted plans of the city.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.178-1; Ord. 2695, passed 6-13-89)
§ 154.10.702 PUD REZONING AND CONCURRENT PLAN APPROVAL
   The PUD District may be applied to any property in the City of West
Carrollton. Upon the approval of the final development plan, according to this
section, Official Municipal Zoning Map shall be amended to designate the
property “PUD”.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.178-2; Ord. 2695, passed 6-13-89)
§ 154.10.703 REQUEST FOR PUD DISTRICT.
   (A)   Requests for PUD zoning may be initiated by Council, the City Planning
Commission, or by all owners of the property requested to be rezoned.
   (B)   The minimum land area which shall be included in an original petition
for a PUD shall be two acres.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.178-3; Ord. 2695, passed 6-13-89)
§ 154.10.704 PERMITTED USES AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   An applicant may propose to include any mixture of residential and
nonresidential land uses in a proposed PUD district, provided that proposed
land uses around the perimeter of the proposed PUD are permitted in the same
zoning district that applies to the adjacent property. Development standards
for property around the perimeter of the proposed PUD (such as yard setbacks
and similar requirements) shall also closely mirror standards required for
adjacent property.
§ 154.10.705 PROCEDURES AND PROVISIONS FOR APPROVAL OF PUD DISTRICT.
   A request for the establishment of a PUD District shall include a
preliminary plan, which shall contain the following information:
   (A)   Statement of intent. The application shall contain a statement of
intent specifying the nature of the special or substantial public interest: its
relationship to the Comprehensive Plan and objectives to be promoted;
   (B)   Proposed district boundaries. The recommendation shall include a map
or maps indicating the boundaries of the PUD District.
   (C)   Proposed regulations. The preliminary plan shall include regulations,
designed to promote the special purposes of the district, as set forward in the
statement of intent. These regulations at a minimum shall establish specific
requirements for the following design standards: lot size and frontage; maximum
building height; minimum front, side, and rear yard setbacks. In addition, such
regulations may require submission of detailed site plans, building plans and
elevations, and maps indicating the relationship of proposed development to
surrounding or otherwise affected property in terms of location, amount,
character, and continuity of open space; protection of desirable principal
views; convenience of access through and between buildings or in other
locations where appropriate for public purposes and where such access will
reduce pedestrian congestion on public streets; separation of pedestrian and
vehicular traffic; signs; lighting; mixtures of proposed uses; general location
and nature of screening and landscaping; off-street parking and loading; and
other matters as appropriate to determinations related to the special public
interest of the district and the objectives to be promoted.
   (D)   Council may authorize exceptions from regulations generally applying
in an PUD District upon making findings that:
      (1)   A plan proposed by an applicant, while not strictly in accord with
regulations applying generally within the district, meets public purposes and
provides public protection to an equivalent or greater degree; or
      (2)   In the particular circumstances of the case, strict application of
a particular regulation or regulations is not necessary for the accomplishment
of public purposes or the provision of public protection, at the time or in the
future. Such exceptions may include, but are not limited to, relocation or
increase in yards or other open space generally required, reduction in height
generally permitted, additional limitations on uses, and buffering and
screening.
   (E)   Conditions for the approval of the preliminary PUD plans. On receipt
of the report of the Planning Commission, the City Council shall study and
review the preliminary PUD to determine:
      (1)   That all requirements have been satisfied; and
      (2)   That a finding can be made that the following specific conditions
are fully met:
         (a)   The PUD District is in conformance with the Comprehensive Plan
for the city.
         (b)   The uses proposed will not be detrimental to present and
potential surrounding uses, but will have a beneficial effect which could not
be achieved under the other zoning districts.
         (c)   The internal streets and major and minor streets that are
proposed shall properly interconnect with the surrounding existing major and
minor streets as designated in the official thoroughfare plan of the city.
         (d)   The preliminary PUD plan is consistent with the intent and
purpose of this zoning code, to promote public health, safety, and general
welfare of the residents of the city.
   (F)   City Council action. Approval of the preliminary PUD plan shall
require a favorable vote of the majority of the membership of the City Council.
Approval of the preliminary PUD plan shall be limited to the general
acceptability of the land uses proposed, proposed general density levels and
their interrelationship, and shall not be construed to endorse precise location
of uses, configuration of parcels, or engineering feasibility which are to be
determined in the subsequent preparation of the detailed final PUD plan.
Approval of the preliminary PUD plan shall constitute rezoning of the parcel to
PUD. In taking action, City Council may deny the preliminary PUD plan or may
recommend approval of the plan subject to specified modification.
   (G)   Amendments to PUD regulations. After a PUD District has been approved
by City Council, it may be amended only by the use of the same procedures as
are applicable for the original adoption of a PUD District. However, minor
adjustments in the final plan, resulting from field conditions, detailed
engineering data, topography, or critical design criteria pertaining to drives,
curb data, retaining walls, swimming pools, tennis courts, fences, building
locations, building configuration, parking area locations, or other similar
project particulars, may be approved by the Planning Commission. These minor
adjustments may be permitted provided they do not:
      (1)   Increase the density and/or approved building size or intensity of
land use.
      (2)   Change the location or amount of land designated for specific land
use, including open space.
      (3)   Change the internal street and thoroughfare locations or
alignments.
      (4)   Change the mixture of proposed land uses approved for the PUD
District.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.178-4; Ord. 2695, passed 6-13-89)
§ 154.10.706 PLAN REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   Before a permit is issued for the construction, reconstruction or
alteration of any building in a PUD District, detailed site plans, building
plans and elevations and such other information necessary to determine
compliance with the standards of the PUD District shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission for approval.
   (B)   No such permit shall be issued without such approval. Approval may be
granted for the plans as submitted, or conditionally, subject to stated
modifications, or may be denied, with written reasons for the denial supplied
to the applicant.
   (C)   Public hearings may be held in connection with such plan review
process, with such public or other notice as is deemed appropriate, but shall
not be required.
   (D)   Conditions for approval of development in the PUD District. The
Planning Commission shall review all such permits and shall approve, modify or
disapprove them after determining:
      (1)   That all requirements of the zoning district have been satisfied;
and
      (2)   That a finding can be made that the following conditions are fully
met.
         (a)   That the proposed PUD District plan for each individual portion
of the development will serve to create a well-planned, visually appealing
development which will create a positive image for the community and the
neighborhood.
         (b)   That the internal streets, circulation areas and parking areas
are suitable and adequate to accommodate anticipated traffic within the
development: and that ingress/egress to the development will properly relate to
the existing street system in terms of safety and ease of access.
         (c)   That proposed landscaping, lighting, and signage be coordinated
within the site and create a visually appealing image for this major entrance
to the city and for the surrounding neighborhood.
         (d)   That any exception from the standard requirements of the zoning
code or PUD District are warranted by the design and amenities incorporated in
the PUD District plan and in accordance with the adopted policy of the Planning
Commission and City Council.
         (e)   That any part of the development not used for structures,
parking and loading areas, circulation areas, shall be landscaped.
         (f)   That the PUD District plan is consistent with the intent of this
district to create a visually appealing focal point for the community and the
neighborhood and which is properly planned so as to minimize negative impacts
on the surrounding transportation network.
      (3)   The approval of the detailed final PUD plan for any section of the
total PUD District landholding shall expire if the zoning certificate or
building permits required to implement the plan are not obtained within two
years of the date of approval. The Planning Commission may extend the time
limit of approval for a detailed final PUD plan if it finds the detailed final
PUD plan still meets the original conditions for approval and there has been
evidence that reasonable efforts have been made to accomplish the plan. The
Planning Commission shall not consider or grant any extension when a zoning map
change or text amendment has been enacted subsequent to the approval of the
original of the final PUD plan which would effect the property subject to the
plan.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.178-5 ; Ord. 2695, passed 6-13-89; Am. Ord. 3079,
passed 1-27-98)
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS FOR ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 154.11.01 CONVERSION OF DWELLINGS.
   The conversion of any building into a dwelling, or the conversion of any
dwelling so as to accommodate an increased number of dwelling units or
families, shall be permitted only within the zoning district in which the new
use is permitted under this zoning code. The conversion shall be permitted only
after obtaining a certificate of zoning and otherwise complying with the other
provisions of this zoning code, and only when the resulting occupancy will
comply with the requirements governing new residential construction in the
district with respect to minimum lot size, lot area per dwelling unit,
dimensions of yards and other open spaces, and off-street parking. Each
conversion shall be subject also to the further requirements as may be
specified hereinafter within the chapter applying to the district.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.179 (L))
§ 154.11.02 FENCING AND WALL REGULATIONS.
   All fences and walls shall be in conformance with the following provisions,
except as otherwise required for screening under the provisions of this
chapter.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.179(K))
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following words and
phrases shall have the following meanings ascribed to them respectively:
      (1)   Corner side yard. On a corner lot, the area between the principal
building and the side lot line which abuts a public street, extending from the
front line of the building to the rear line of the building, is considered to
be the corner side yard.
      (2)   Fence height. The vertical distance from the lowest adjoining
finished grade, either natural or filled, to the topmost portion of the fence.
Fence posts or ornamental projections may exceed the maximum permitted fence
height by up to six (6) inches.
      (3)   Ornamental fence. A fence which is more than fifty percent (50%)
open that is intended to decorate, accent, or frame a feature of the landscape
primarily for aesthetic appeal, and does not serve the purpose of enclosing,
screening, or separating premises or part of any premises from adjoining
premises.
      (4)   Perimeter fence. A barrier erected to enclose, screen or separate
any premises or part of any premises from adjoining premises, but not including
hedges, shrubs, trees, or other natural vegetation.
('70 Code §1319.01; amend. Ord. 2170, passed 12-11- 79; amend. Ord. 2890,
passed 2-9-93)
      (5)   Yards. Unless otherwise defined in this section, all yards shall be
defined as provided in §
154.02.01 Definitions of this Zoning Code.
      (6)   Yard types illustration. The following graphics are intended to
illustrate the different yard types as defined above.
[Image]
   (B)   Classification of Fences. Fences are classified as follows for the
purposes of this section:
   Class 1: Masonry walls.
   Class 2: Iron, wood or vinyl pickets and wood split rail (more than 50%
open).
   Class 3: Wood, vinyl, iron, aluminum or other commonly-used fencing
materials (more than 50% open).
   Class 4: Wood, vinyl, iron, aluminum or other commonly-used fencing
materials (less than 50% open).
   Class 5: Chain link or similar woven wire, excluding chicken wire (more than
80% open).
   Class 6: Barbed wire or sharp-pointed fences.
[Image]
(Ord. 2890, passed 2-9-93; amend. Ord. 2952, passed 9-27-94)
   (C)   Permit, Plan and Inspection.
      (1)   In any district, a fence permit is required to erect, move, or
replace an existing perimeter fence or repair 25% or more of the length of an
existing perimeter fence. No perimeter fence shall be installed unless and
until a permit for that purpose shall have been issued by the city. Application
for such permit shall be made in writing and shall be accompanied by plans or
drawings showing the actual shape and dimension of the lot on which the fence
is to be installed; the exact location, height, type of material and length of
the proposed fence; and the location of all buildings on the lot. The permit
fees for fence permits shall be as set forth in § 37.27 of Chapter 37, General
Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the City of West Carrollton.
      (2)   Perimeter fences are permitted to be constructed on property lines
and if not on the property line, a minimum setback of two feet or greater from
the property line shall be provided to allow for maintenance of the fence and
yard area falling outside the fenced area. It shall be the duty of each
property owner to determine property lines and to ascertain that the fence thus
constructed does not deviate from the plans as approved by the city and the
fence does not encroach on another lot or parcel of land. The city shall
conduct an inspection to determine that the fence is constructed in accordance
with the plans submitted for a permit as outlined in division (C)(1) hereof;
provided, however, that the issuance of the permit by the city shall not be
construed to mean the city has determined the fence is not encroaching on
another lot, nor shall it relieve the property owner of the duty imposed
herein. (Ord. 3346, passed 7-10-07; amend. Ord. 3436, passed 12-22-09.)
      (3)   Ornamental fences not exceeding 42 inches in height shall not
require a permit or inspection.
      (4)   Fences may be located within utility easement areas. However, the
issuance of a permit by the city shall not be construed to mean the city has
determined that proper permission has been granted from the utility provider,
nor shall it relieve the property owner of the duty imposed herein.
Responsibility for installing a fence within a utility easement shall rest
solely with the property owner.
   (D)   Location and Height.
      (1)   Division (E), Intersection Visibility, applies to all fences.
      (2)   Ornamental fences up to 42 inches in height may be located in any
yard.
      (3)   Residential and Agricultural Districts. Fences and walls within any
Residential (R), Office Residential (O-R), Office (O), Limited Development (L-
D), Heritage (H), Residential Planned Unit Development (R-PUD), or Agricultural
(A) Zoning District shall conform to the following requirements:
         (a)   Required front yards. Class 2 and Class 3 fences may be erected
up to a maximum height of 42 inches, except on corner lots, where approval must
be obtained by the Service Director based on the relation of the fence to the
intersection. These fences may be located up to and on the front property line,
subject to the requirements of division (E) of this section.
         (b)   Side, corner side, or rear yards. Class 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 fences
may be erected up to a maximum height of 72 inches. Fences in side or rear
yards may be located up to and on the side or rear lot line, subject to the
requirements of division (E) of this section. Fences in corner side yards may
not be located closer than three feet to the corner side lot line, except where
the lot does not meet minimum lot frontage requirements, in which case the
fence may be located up to and on the corner side lot line, subject to the
requirements of division (E) of this section.
      (4)   Commercial Districts. Fences and walls within Commercial (B), City
Center (CC), Olde Downtown (OD), and Planned Unit Development (PUD) Zoning
Districts including those associated with all conditionally permitted uses
shall conform to the following requirements.
         (a)   Required front yards. Class 1 and Class 3 fences may be erected
up to a maximum height of 42 inches.
         (b)   Side, corner side, or rear yards. Class 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 fences
may be erected up to a maximum height of 72 inches. Fences in side or rear
yards may be located up to and on the side or rear lot line, subject to the
requirements of division (E) of this section. Fences in corner side yards may
not be located closer than three feet to the corner side lot line, except where
the lot does not meet minimum lot frontage requirements, in which case the
fence may be located up to and on the corner side lot line, subject to the
requirements of division (E) of this section. In the case of walls required to
screen outdoor storage areas, the wall height shall be one foot higher than the
material to be screened, but shall not exceed 12 feet.
      (5)   Industrial Districts. Fences and walls within Business Park and
Manufacturing (M) Zoning Districts including those associated with all
conditionally permitted uses shall conform to the following requirements:
         (a)   Required front yards. Class 1 and Class 3 fences may be erected
up to a maximum height of 72 inches.
         (b)   Side, corner side, or rear yards. Class 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6
fences may be erected up to a maximum height of 96 inches. Fences in side or
rear yards in these districts may be located up to and on the side or rear lot
line, subject to the requirements of division (E) of this section. Fences in
corner side yards in these districts may not be located closer than three feet
to the corner side lot line, except where the lot does not meet minimum lot
frontage requirements, in which case the fence may be located up to and on the
corner side lot line subject to the requirements of division (E) of this
section. In the case of walls required to screen outdoor storage areas, the
wall height shall be one foot higher than the material to be screened, but
shall not exceed 12 feet.
(Ord. 2170, passed 12-11-79; amend. Ord. 2890, passed 2-9-93)
   (E)   Intersection Visibility. On corner lots no fence shall be erected,
placed, or maintained within the public right-of-way or within the triangular
yard space formed by the intersecting street lines and a line joining points on
such street lines 50 feet from the point of intersection of the street lines
unless reviewed and approved by the Service Director.
(Ord. 2170, passed 12-11-79; amend. Ord. 2890, passed 2-9-93)
   (F)   Construction Requirements.
      (1)   A fence that is supported by posts on the side of the fence shall
be erected so that exposed posts and supporting cross-elements face the
interior of the property and the finished surface faces outward to adjoining
properties or public rights-of-way.
      (2)   Fences shall be uniformly constructed in a workmanlike manner of
commonly used fencing material, including but not limited to wood, chain link,
aluminum, vinyl, masonry, or wrought iron (Ord. 2890, passed 2-9-93)
      (3)   Prohibited materials: The following materials shall not be used for
any fence or wall:
         (a)   Cast-off, secondhand, or other items not originally intended to
be used for constructing or maintaining a fence;
         (b)   Corrugated and galvanized steel or metal sheets;
         (c)   Plywood, pallets, particle board, paper, visqueen plastic,
plastic tarp, or similar material;
         (d)   Wire farm-style fencing outside of the A Agricultural District;
and
         (e)   The use of poured concrete, concrete masonry unit, metal panel,
corrugated metal, rebar or other similar product where the surface of such
material is exposed and visible from any direction, shall be prohibited unless
specifically permitted elsewhere in this section;
         (f)   Any other material not described in this section which is deemed
by the city to be inconsistent with the standards of this section.
      (4)   The bottom of all fences shall be kept six inches above drainage
swales or watercourses, and shall not cause damage to underground utilities.
Any changes to existing grade shall require approval by the City Engineer.
      (5)   If a new fence is being constructed on the same property as an
existing fence, the existing fence shall be removed in its entirety. This
provision is meant to prevent a situation where a double fence row exists on an
individual property.
      (6)   No fence shall be erected where it prevents or unreasonably
obstructs the use of adjacent property, nor shall a fence be erected where it
would obstruct or prevent the continued safe use of an existing driveway or
other means of access to adjacent property. In enforcing this provision, the
city may require a fence to be set back a minimum distance of not more than two
feet from a driveway or property line in order to provide for the safe passage
of pedestrians, bicyclists or vehicular traffic or other safety related
concerns.
      (7)   Any Class 2 fence shall be permitted to have wire mesh installed on
the interior side of the fence for a height of up to 42 inches. Such wire mesh,
or similar material shall have openings at least one square inch in size, shall
be factory coated with vinyl or a similar material and shall be a dark color
such as black, green, or brown.
      (8)   Class 3 and 4 aluminum or iron fences must be painted black or
another earthtone color; bare iron or aluminum is prohibited.
      (9)   All Class 1 fences used for screening purposes shall be constructed
of architecturally- compatible brick or decorative stone.
      (10)   Class 5 fences shall not have slats, fabric, or other screening
attached.
   (G)   Maintenance Requirements.
      (1)   All fences shall be constructed and maintained straight, plumb,
structurally sound and of an even height along its length, except such
deviations as required by grade. Such fences shall not be allowed to become or
remain in a condition of disrepair including noticeable leaning or missing
sections, broken supports or nonuniform height.
      (2)   Missing boards, pickets or posts shall be replaced with material of
the same type, color and quality.
      (3)   Vegetation adjacent to the fence must be maintained cut and trimmed
as appropriate. Any grounds between such fences and property lines shall be
maintained at all times and kept free from growing or noxious vegetation.
   (H)   Recreational Facilities.
      (1)   Swimming pools. Swimming pools shall be surrounded by a fence not
less than five feet in height with the widest opening dimension not exceeding
four inches, and all doorways and entrances into the pool area shall be
equipped with gates of equal height with the fence, and shall be provided with
latches. This requirement shall not apply to above ground pools. (Ord. 2170,
passed 12-11-79; amend Ord. 2890, passed 2-9-93)
      (2)   Tennis courts. A fence enclosing a tennis court may have a maximum
height of 12 feet, provided any part of such fence above six feet must be
constructed of an open material that minimally obstructs vision.
   (I)   Barbed Wire Fences. In districts where permitted, the barbed wire or
sharp-pointed sections of fences shall not be lower than a height of 96 inches.
The barbed wire must face away from the side of the fence that fronts a
sidewalk or public way. (Ord. 2170, passed 12-11-79)
   (J)   Electrified Fences. Electrified fences may only be erected upon
approval of the Board of Zoning Appeals. Authority to erect an electrified
fence may be granted only on proof being shown that no harm to the public will
result and that there is a definite and unusual situation which requires such a
fence. (Ord. 2170, passed 12-11-79)
   (K)   Height of Fences Atop Retaining Walls. A combination fence and
retaining wall may be erected. The retaining wall portion may be erected up to
the level of the higher finished grade. The fence portion must be of the class
and height permitted within the applicable district. These measurements shall
be made at the point of the finished grade. (Ord. 2170, passed 12-11-79)
   (L)   Fences Around Trash Receptacles.
      (1)   All trash receptacles, including dumpsters and grease containers,
sized two cubic yards or larger which are visible from the public right-of-way
shall be enclosed by a view-obscuring fence with a gate or gates and both the
fence and a gate or gates shall not be less than six feet in height.
      (2)   A fence shall not be required for trash receptacles meeting any one
of the following conditions:
         (a)   Not visible from the public right-of-way.
         (b)   Located on industrial property which does not abut residential
property.
         (c)   Used solely for and as part of an industrial manufacturing
process.
      (3)   A gate shall not be required if the fence opening is not visible
from the public right-of-way and is not visible from residential property.
      (4)   All fences and gates shall meet the design standards and building
material specifications of the Planning and Building Department, but in no case
shall chain link fence be permitted. (Ord. 3404, passed 1-27-09)
   (M)   Temporary Fencing. The city shall have the ability to waive the
requirements for fencing as outlined in this section to accommodate temporary
fencing needed during active construction activities or special events taking
place on the lot in which the temporary fencing is being requested.
   (N)   Fences or Walls Required by the Planning Commission or the Board of
Zoning Appeals. The Planning Commission or the Board of Zoning Appeals may,
when acting within their review procedures, exempt a fence from the provisions
of this section when it is determined that the health, safety, or general
welfare would not be impaired by such an exemption. (Ord. 2170, passed 12-11-
79)
   (O)   Variances. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear any request for a
variance to the requirements of this section as provided in §
154.06.01. An administrative setback variance may also be granted as provided
in §
154.05.03(C).
(Ord. 3459, passed 11-9-10; amend Ord. 3736, passed 10-11-22)
§ 154.11.03 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR NUISANCE VALUES.
   The following minimum standards shall apply to all uses in the M-1 and the
M-2 Districts.
   (A)   Fire and Explosion Hazards. All activities, including storage,
involving flammable or explosive materials shall include the provision of
adequate safety devices against the hazard of fire and explosion, such safety
devices being standard in the industry. Burning of waste materials in open fire
is prohibited at any point.
   (B)   Fly Ash, Dust, Fumes, Vapors, Gases, and Other Forms of Air Pollution.
No emission of air pollutants shall be permitted which violate the minimum
federal requirements as enforced by the Montgomery County Combined General
Health District. Dust and other airborne pollutants shall be minimized through
the paving, oiling, or landscaping of the lot area around any building.
   (C)   Glare, Heat, and Exterior Light. Any operation producing intense light
or heat, such as high temperature processes like combustions, welding, or
otherwise, shall be performed within an enclosed building and not be visible
beyond any lot line bounding the property whereon the use is conducted. No
exterior lighting shall be positioned so as to extend light or glare onto
adjacent properties of rights-of-way.
   (D)   Liquid or Solid Wastes. No discharge at any point into any public
sewer, private sewage disposal system, or stream, or into the ground, of any
materials of such nature or temperature as can contaminate any water supply,
interfere with bacterial processes in sewage treatment, or otherwise cause the
emission of dangerous or offensive elements, shall be permitted, except in
accord with standards approved by the State Environmental Protection Agency or
such other governmental agency as shall have jurisdiction of such activities.
   (E)   Noxious Gases. Processes and operations of permitted uses capable of
dispersing gases or toxic particulates into the atmosphere shall be hooded or
otherwise suitably enclosed. The emission of the toxic gases or particulate
matter shall be from a stack.
   (F)   Vibrations. No uses shall be located and no equipment shall be
installed in such a way to produce intense, earthshaking vibrations which are
discernible without instruments at the property lines of the subject premises.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.183 (A) through (F); Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am.
Ord. 2760, passed 7-10-90)
§ 154.11.04 PROJECTIONS INTO YARDS.
   There may be projections into required yard areas as follows:
   (A)   Architectural features such as awnings, cornices, eaves, and other
similar features may project not more than four feet.
   (B)   Outside stairs and landings projecting not more than six feet.
   (C)   Fire escapes projecting not more than 4.5 feet.
   (D)   Front porches projecting not more than eight (8) feet, when open on
three sides, except for railings or banisters.
   (E)   Bay windows, balconies, or chimneys may project into a front, side, or
rear yard a distance not exceeding three feet, provided, that the aggregate
width of the projection shall not exceed 1/3 of the length of the wall on which
they are located.
   (F)   Open patios and decks may project into rear yards, provided that they
shall be screened by an evergreen hedge or fence not less than four feet in
height maintained in good condition when located within eight feet of the
adjacent property line. But in no case shall any patio be located less than
three feet from the adjacent property line, or be constructed over a public
utility easement.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.180 (A)(2))
§ 154.11.05 SUPPLEMENTARY HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS. 
   The maximum heights specified for buildings in the appropriate section of
this zoning code shall not apply to:
   (A)   Public and semipublic buildings, churches, and schools, provided that
these are located on the first floor of the buildings and may provide that for
each three feet by which the height of the building exceeds the maximum height
otherwise permitted in the district, its side and rear yards shall be increased
in width or depth by an additional one foot over the side and rear yards,
required for the highest building otherwise permitted in the district.
   (B)   Bulkheads, elevator penthouses, water tanks, monitors, scenery lofts,
towers, and monuments, provided no linear dimensions of any such structure
exceed 50% of the corresponding street lot line frontage. Fire towers, hose
towers, cooling towers, gas holders, or other structures, where the
manufacturing process requires more than 50% of the street lot line frontage,
provided, that all the structures above the heights otherwise permitted in the
district shall not occupy more than 25% of the area of the lot and shall be
distant not less than 25 feet in all parts from every lot line.
   (C)   Church spires, belfries, cupolas and domes, monuments, water towers,
masts and aerials.
   (D)   Parapet walls which extend not more than four feet above the limiting
height of the building.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.180(B); Ord. 2306, passed 2-23-82; Am. Ord. 2397,
passed 7-12-83; Am. Ord. 2810, passed 7-23-91)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.12.01 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General Requirements.
      (1)   All buildings, structures, and uses shall provide off-street
parking and off-street loading facilities in accordance with the provision
specified in this chapter, and all applicants for a zoning certificate, plan
approval or conditional use permit shall include with their application a plot
plan drawn to scale showing the location and arrangement of any off-street
parking or loading required by this chapter.
      (2)   Parking spaces located within a garage structure or residential
driveway, exclusive of sidewalk, common driving lanes and driveway apron, may
be computed as off-street parking spaces.
      (3)   All required off-street loading areas and facilities shall be
located off the street on the same lot as the building or use being served, and
may occupy all or part of any required side or rear yard area, except that no
loading area shall be located adjacent to any L-D, R, or O-R District. No
permitted off-street loading space shall be located closer than 50 feet to any
lot in an R District, or any residential lot in an O-R District, unless wholly
enclosed within a building.
      (4)   Off-street Parking and Loading Space Dimensions.
         (a)   Each off-street parking space shall be a minimum of nine feet
wide and 19 feet long. Measurement of this area shall not include access
drives, aisles, ramps, columns, office or work areas, or areas devoted to the
storage of materials or waste receptacles. Each off-street parking space shall
have direct access to driving access aisles. Driving access aisles between
vehicular parking spaces shall be not less than:
            1.   12 feet in width when serving automobiles at a 45-degree angle
in one direction;
            2.   16 feet in width when serving automobiles parked at a 60-
degree angle in one direction; and
            3.   24 feet in width when serving automobiles parked
perpendicularly.
         (b)   Each off-street loading space shall be a minimum of 12 feet in
width, 65 feet in length and have a minimum vertical clearance of 15 feet. All
off-street loading spaces shall have access from a public street or alley in
such a manner that any vehicle leaving the premises shall be traveling in a
forward motion.
      (5)   Utilization. Off-street parking facilities shall be used solely for
the parking of motor vehicles in operating condition of patrons, guests,
occupants or employees of such uses.
      (a)   In any L-D, R, O-R, or O District, off-street parking areas shall
only be used for the storage or parking of the following:
            1.   Passenger automobiles, vans or pickup trucks.
            2.   Trucks or commercial vehicles which have a maximum
manufacturer's payload capacity not greater than 10,000 pounds; or which have
an overall length not greater than 19 feet, or a width not greater than 8 feet,
or a height not greater than 8-1/2 feet.
         (b)   In any L-D, R, O-R, or O District, overnight parking or storage
of the following shall be prohibited:
            1.   Trucks or commercial vehicles which have a maximum
manufacturer's payload capacity of greater than 10,000 pounds; or which have an
overall length of more than 19 feet, or a width of more than 8 feet, or a
height of more than 8-1/2 feet.
            2.   Mobile home dwellings.
            3.   Buses, commercial tractors and semi-trailers as defined in §
70.01, Traffic Code.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.179(M)(1)(g))
      (6)   Lighting. All lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking or
loading area shall be equipped with suitable shielding or be so arranged as to
reflect light away from adjacent lots, and to prevent a glare at eye level on
surrounding public or private property.
      (7)   Landscaping, Separation and Screening. Landscaping and screening
shall be provided in accordance with Section
154.13.01.
      (8)   Paving. All off-street parking areas, loading areas, driving access
aisles or other areas used for vehicular circulation shall be paved with
asphalt, Portland cement concrete, or paver brick installed in an interlocking
pattern per the manufacturer specifications.
         (a)   Except as provided for in § 154.12.01(A)(10), the parking or
storage of any motor vehicle on an unpaved area shall be prohibited.
         (b)   All multi-family residential and nonresidential off-street
parking and loading spaces shall be physically delineated on the parking area
surface by striping designated spaces and shall be continuously maintained so
as to be visibly defined at all times.
      (9)   Drainage. Storm water drainage facilities shall be installed in
accordance with the requirements and specifications of the City Engineer, in
order to ensure that storm water does not flow onto abutting property or
abutting sidewalks in such a way or quantity that adjoining property owners or
users of the sidewalk would be detrimentally affected or inconvenienced.
      (10)   Parking of Recreational Vehicles. The off-street parking or
storage of any recreational vehicle shall be permitted in a residential
district under the following conditions:
         (a)   Recreational vehicles may be parked in front of the principal
building line or in a required front yard only if all of the following
conditions are met:
            1.   Parked or stored on a paved driveway.
            2.   On all corner lots, all yards which front on streets shall be
considered as front yards.
            3.   Parking or storage of any recreational vehicle exceeding 19
feet in length (excluding the tongue of a trailer), or 8 feet in width, or 8.5
feet in height shall be prohibited, except as provided in § 154.12.01(A)(10)
(b).
         (b)   One recreational vehicle may be temporarily parked on a paved
front driveway for a period of time not to exceed 72 consecutive hours within
any seven (7) day period.
         (c)   Any recreational vehicle, regardless of size, may be parked on a
paved area of the side or rear yard. A non-motorized recreational vehicle may
be parked on an unpaved area of a side or rear yard, provided the ground area
under and immediately surrounding where such vehicles are stored is maintained
free of noxious weeds or overgrowth and debris.
         (d)   Parked or stored recreational vehicles shall not be connected to
electricity, gas or sanitary sewer facilities other than for temporary
maintenance purposes. At no time shall a recreational vehicle be used for
living or housekeeping purposes.
         (e)   Except as provided for in § 154.12.01(A)(10)(b) above, all
recreational vehicles parked or stored on a residentially zoned property shall
be owned and titled to a resident of the premises.
         (f)   Beginning on January 1, 2002, all recreational vehicles which
were legally parked or stored prior to January 1, 2002, and which do not meet
the requirements of § 154.12.01(A)(10)(a) through (e), shall be considered
legal, non-conforming accessory uses of land. Such non-conforming accessory
uses shall be permitted to continue in accordance with the previous regulations
for parking or storing such vehicles, provided that such parking or storage is
not discontinued for a period of 12 consecutive months. Any non-conforming
accessory recreational vehicle use which is discontinued or made to conform to
the parking and storage requirements of § 154.12.01(A)(10)(a) through (e) shall
thereafter conform with the current requirements and the previous non-
conforming accessory recreational vehicle use shall not be reestablished.
HISTORY: (Ord. 3170, passed 3-13-01)
      (11)   Shared Parking: Where permitted, agreements regarding shared
parking arrangements are subject to the approval of the City. Evidence that
peak parking demands for either use does not conflict must be provided along
with written documentation of an agreement to share specific numbers of parking
spaces. This evidence may include documentation of business hours and data
concerning actual parking utilization.
   (B)   Specific Off-street Parking and Loading Space Requirements. Off-street
parking spaces shall be provided in all zoning districts of the city in
accordance with the schedule outlined below. The off-street parking and loading
requirements for any use not specified in this zoning code shall be the same as
for a similar permitted use in the particular zoning district, as determined by
the Zoning Enforcement Officer. If commercial, industrial, and manufacturing
establishments are such that shipping and receiving goods are not an integral
part of the business, the loading requirements may be varied or waived by the
Zoning Enforcement Officer.
 TYPE OF USES REQUIRED NUMBER OF PARKING AND LOADING SPACES*
    TYPE OF USES                     REQUIRED NUMBER OF PARKING AND LOADING
                                     SPACES*
    Manufacturing, Industrial, and
(1) Warehouse Uses Parking
    Requirements:
                                     One parking space for every 500 square
        Industrial and manufacturing feet of floor area or four parking
    (a) plants                       spaces for each five employees employed
                                     on the shift of greatest employment,
                                     whichever is greater.
        Wholesale and warehouse      One space for each employee, plus one
    (b) establishments               space for each 2,000 square feet of
                                     gross floor area.
    (c)   The Zoning Enforcement Officer may permit these uses to provide
    less paved parking area if both of the following standards are met:
        1.   In no instance shall the amount of paved parking area provided
        be less than one space per employee on the greatest work shift; plus
        one space per 5,000 square feet of floor area; plus one space for
        each company vehicle stored at the site.
        2.   Sufficient land area is reserved and identified to accommodate
        parking for one parking space for every 500 square feet of floor
        area. The storm water control facilities must be able to handle the
        parking area for one space for every 500 square feet of floor area,
        or capable of increased capacity to do so.
    Manufacturing, Industrial, and
(2) Warehouse Uses Loading
    Requirements:
    (a) Manufacturing and industrial One loading space for every 10,000
        plants                       square feet of floor area
    (b) Wholesale and warehouse      One loading space for every 7,500
        establishments               square feet of floor area
(3) Commercial Uses Parking
    Requirements:
    Agricultural implement sales and One parking space for every 1,000
    service, automobile sales and    square feet of enclosed floor area and
    service, vehicle sales           one for every 3,000 square feet of open
                                     lot area
    Air conditioning; heating;       One parking space for every business
    plumbing; roofing services       vehicle and one parking space for every
                                     300 square feet of floor area
 
 TYPE OF USES REQUIRED NUMBER OF PARKING AND LOADING SPACES*
 TYPE OF USES                            REQUIRED NUMBER OF PARKING AND LOADING
                                         SPACES*
 Amusement center                        One space for each 100 square feet of
                                         gross floor area
 Auditoriums, assembly halls, sports     One parking space for every 3.5 seats
 arenas and stadiums with fixed seats
                                         One parking space for every 50 square
 Auditoriums, assembly halls, sports     feet of floor area in the auditorium,
 arenas and stadiums without fixed       assembly, or meeting room plus one
 seats, health clubs and spas            parking space for every 200 square
                                         feet of other floor area
 Auto parts store                        One space for each 350 sq. ft. of
                                         gross floor area
                                         One parking space for every 200 square
 Banks and savings and loan associations feet of floor space, plus one parking
 with drive-in facility                  space for every employee, plus three
                                         stacking spaces are required for each
                                         drive-in window
 Banks and savings and loan associations One parking space for every 200 square
 without drive-in facility               feet of floor space plus one parking
                                         space for every employee
 Barber shops, beauty parlors, or        Two parking spaces for each service
 similar personal services               chair
 Bed and Breakfast                       One space per guest room
 Bowling alleys                          Four parking spaces for each bowling
                                         lane
                                         One space per employee on the busiest
 Car wash - full service                 shift, one space for drying vehicles,
                                         and two spaces for vehicles waiting
                                         for entry are required
                                         One space per employee on the busiest
 Car wash - self service                 shift and four stacking spaces for
                                         each washing stall are required
 Convenience store                       Five spaces for each 1,000 sq. ft. of
                                         gross floor area
 Day care centers, nursery schools       One space for each staff member and
                                         one space for each six children
 Equipment rental                        One parking space for every 1,000
                                         square feet of floor area
                                         One parking space for every 50 square
 Funeral home                            feet of floor area of the parlor or
                                         viewing room, plus one space for each
                                         employee
 
 TYPE OF USES REQUIRED NUMBER OF PARKING AND LOADING SPACES*
 TYPE OF USES                           REQUIRED NUMBER OF PARKING AND LOADING
                                        SPACES*
                                        One parking space for every 800 square
                                        feet of floor area, including warehouse
 Furniture stores, appliance sales,     area; plus one parking space for each
 carpet sales, contractor's showroom    employee; plus business vehicle
                                        parking. A minimum of five customer
                                        parking spaces must be provided
 Home occupation                        One additional parking space
 Miniature Golf Course                  One Space per Hole, plus one space per
                                        employee
                                        1.2 parking spaces per one bedroom;
 Motels                                 plus parking spaces as required for
                                        restaurants, assembly rooms, and
                                        related facilities
                                        One space for each 1,000 square feet of
 Nursery or green house                 total inside sales area and one space
                                        for each 2,000 square feet of outside
                                        sales area
                                        One space is required for each employee
 Oil change shop                        on the busiest shift, and two stacking
                                        spaces are required for each service
                                        bay
 Photography studio                     One space for each 300 square feet of
                                        gross floor area
                                        One space for each 1,000 sq. ft of
 Printing and publishing                gross floor area, and one space per
                                        employee
                                        One parking space for every five
 Recreation and amusement facilities    customers based on maximum capacity;
                                        plus one parking space for every two
                                        employees
 Restaurants
                                        One parking space for every two persons
  Fast-food restaurants                 of capacity; plus five stacking parking
                                        spaces for drive-thru service
                                        Five stacking parking places; plus one
  Fast-food restaurants with no seating parking space per 50 square feet of
                                        floor area
                                        One parking space for each two
  Sit-down restaurants                  employees on the shift of greatest
                                        employment plus one parking space per
                                        three seats of capacity
 
 TYPE OF USES REQUIRED NUMBER OF PARKING AND LOADING SPACES*
    TYPE OF USES                         REQUIRED NUMBER OF PARKING AND LOADING
                                         SPACES*
    Retail sales and service, grocery
    stores and supermarkets, and
    convenience, discount, and variety
    stores
     Individual occupancy                One parking space for every 250 square
                                         feet of floor area
                                         One parking space for every 300 square
     Multiple occupancy                  feet of floor area, excluding theaters
                                         which require additional parking
                                         spaces as required in this chapter
    Self-service laundries               One parking space for every three
                                         machines
    Self-service storage facility        One space for each 100 storage spaces,
                                         plus one space for each employee
                                         One parking space for each employee;
    Service stations                     plus two parking spaces for each
                                         service stall, or a minimum of six
                                         parking spaces whichever is greater
    Taverns, cocktail lounges            One parking space per three persons of
                                         capacity   
    Theaters                             One parking space per 3.5 seats
(4) Commercial Uses Loading Requirements
                                         One loading space for first 10,000
    All commercial                       square feet of floor area; plus one
                                         loading space for each additional
                                         20,000 square feet of floor area
(5) Business and Professional Offices:
    General offices                      One parking space for every 300 square
                                         feet of floor area
    Medical/dental offices               One parking space for every 200 feet
                                         of floor area
    Veterinary office/ animal hospital   One parking space for every 400 square
                                         feet of floor area
(6) Business and Professional Office     None required
    Loading Requirements
 
 TYPE OF USES REQUIRED NUMBER OF PARKING AND LOADING SPACES*
                                                                       REQUIRED
                                                                       NUMBER OF
     TYPE OF USES                                                      PARKING AND
                                                                       LOADING
                                                                       SPACES*
(7)  Churches, Schools, and Other Public and Semi-Public Uses Parking
     Requirements:
                                                                       One parking
     Places of public assembly including churches, synagogues,         space for
     gymnasiums                                                        every 4.5
                                                                       seats
                                                                       One parking
                                                                       space for
                                                                       every 25
                                                                       classroom
                                                                       seats, or
                                                                       one parking
     Elementary and junior high schools                                space for
                                                                       every 3.5
                                                                       seats in
                                                                       the main
                                                                       auditorium,
                                                                       whichever
                                                                       is greater
                                                                       One space
                                                                       for each
                                                                       staff
                                                                       member plus
                                                                       one space
                                                                       for each 8
                                                                       students,
     High schools                                                      or one
                                                                       space for
                                                                       each 4.5
                                                                       seats in
                                                                       the
                                                                       auditorium,
                                                                       whichever
                                                                       is greater
                                                                       One parking
     Hospitals                                                         space for
                                                                       every two
                                                                       beds
                                                                       Three
                                                                       parking
     Kindergartens, public or private, and preschool                   spaces for
                                                                       every ten
                                                                       children
                                                                       One parking
     Nursing homes                                                     space for
                                                                       every four
                                                                       beds
(8)  Churches, Schools, and Other Public and Semi-Public Uses Loading None
     Requirements                                                      required
(9)  Residential Uses Parking Requirements:
                                                                       One parking
                                                                       space per
                                                                       two
                                                                       dwelling
                                                                       units; plus
                                                                       one parking
     Housing for the elderly                                           space for
                                                                       each full-
                                                                       time staff
                                                                       person
                                                                       employed by
                                                                       the
                                                                       facility
                                                                       Two parking
     Single-family and two-family dwellings                            spaces per
                                                                       dwelling
                                                                       unit
                                                                       1.5 parking
                                                                       spaces for
                                                                       each
                                                                       efficiency
                                                                       or 1
                                                                       bedroom
                                                                       unit, plus
                                                                       1.75
                                                                       parking
     Multiple-family dwellings                                         spaces for
                                                                       each 2
                                                                       bedroom
                                                                       unit, plus
                                                                       2.25
                                                                       parking
                                                                       spaces for
                                                                       each 3 or
                                                                       more
                                                                       bedroom
                                                                       unit
(10) Residential Uses Loading Requirements:                            None
                                                                       required
 
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.179; Ord. 2097, passed 9-26-78; Am. Ord. 2306, passed
2-23-82; Am. Ord. 2399, passed 8-9-83; Am. Ord. 2639, passed 1-26-88; Am. Ord.
2702, passed 2-28-89; Am. Ord. 2768, passed 1-22-91; Am. Ord. 2854, passed 4-
14-92; Am.Ord. 2909, passed 10-5-93; Am. Ord. 3031, passed 10-22-96; Am. Ord.
3082, passed 2-24-98)
§ 154.13.01 LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS: SCREENING, BUFFER YARDS AND TREE LAWNS.
   This section provides minimum landscaping, screening and buffer yard
standards for the development of land in order to provide suitable screening
between incompatible land uses; to screen from view visually undesirable uses;
to provide attractive views from roads and adjacent properties; to protect,
preserve and promote the aesthetic appeal, character and value of the
surrounding neighborhoods; and to protect the health, safety and welfare of the
community through the reduction of noise, air and visual pollution, and
artificial light glare. Nothing in this section shall prevent the provision of
landscaping in excess of the minimums specified.
   (A)   Applicability. This section shall apply to new property development,
and any collective substantial expansion of existing structures; except for
individual single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings and the construction
of parking lots of five spaces or less. Substantial expansion of existing
structures shall be defined based on the criteria established below:
 
When existing structure is...  A substantial expansion is...
 0-1,000 Sq. Ft.               50% or greater
 1,001-10,000 Sq. Ft.          40% or greater
 10,001-25,000 Sq. Ft.         30% or greater
 25,001-50,000 Sq. Ft.         20% or greater
 50,001 Sq. Ft. and larger     10% or greater
 
   (B)   General Requirements for Submission.  A landscape plan shall be
submitted for any property to which this section applies. When new property
development, or the expansion of an existing structure, involves the
construction of more than 50,000 square feet of floor area, the landscape plan
shall be prepared by a Landscape Architect, registered in the State of Ohio.
All landscape plans shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Plans must be at a reasonable scale to indicate all types of
proposed landscape improvements at a minimum of 1 inch equals 20 feet and shall
at least include the following information:
         (a)   North arrow and scale.
         (b)   The name of the applicant/owner.
         (c)   The name, registration number, address and phone number of the
person or firm responsible for the preparation of the landscape plans (if
applicable).
         (d)   The dates on which plans are submitted or revised.
         (e)   All existing and proposed buildings and other structures, paved
areas, planted areas, water outlets, utility poles, fire hydrants, light
standards, underground utilities, signs, fences, dumpster locations and other
permanent features to be added or retained on the site.
         (f)   All existing plant material to be removed or retained and a
schedule of all new landscaping materials to be installed. The plant list shall
include the common names, specified installation size, and on center planting
dimensions when applicable. When the list of plant material to be removed
contains existing trees, the landscape plan shall justify that building
location and placement has been developed with due consideration given to
minimizing removal of trees. Quantities required shall be referenced on the
plan.
         (g)   All existing and proposed streets, sidewalks, curbs and gutters,
railroad tracks, drainage ditches and other public or semi-public improvements
within and immediately adjacent to the site.
         (h)   All property lines and easements.
         (i)   Any other information which is determined necessary to
adequately review the proposal.
      (2)   Typical details shall be shown for the planting of trees, shrubs
and ground cover, and the installation of retaining walls, and other landscape
features within the landscaped areas.
   (C)   Approval. Approval for landscaped areas shall be as follows:
      (1)   No site or development plan or zoning certificate shall receive
final approval unless a landscape plan meeting all of the requirements of this
Section has been submitted and approved.
      (2)   No Certificate of Occupancy shall be issued unless the following
criteria are fully satisfied with regard to the approved landscape plan:
         (a)   Such plan has been fully implemented on the site; or
         (b)   Such plan, because of seasonal conditions, cannot be implemented
immediately, but has been guaranteed by a postponed improvement agreement
between the applicant and the city. Such an agreement may include a bond or
irrevocable letter of credit that guarantees that the approved landscaping plan
will be installed within six months after the date of posting the bond or
irrevocable letter of credit. A one-month extension of the planting period may
be granted by the Planning Division upon demonstration by the property owner
that such an extension is warranted because of adverse weather conditions or
unavailability of required plant materials. No more than three such one-month
extensions may be granted. Foreclosure proceedings shall be brought against the
performance bond or irrevocable letter of credit if the required landscaping
plans have not been complied with by the end of the approved period.
   (D)   Landscape and Buffer Yard Standards.
      (1)   Minimum Plant Material Specifications. All landscaping materials
shall be installed and maintained according to accepted nursery industry
procedures. At installation, plant material shall meet the following size
minimums:
         (a)   Deciduous trees shall be 1-3/4 inch diameter for canopy shade
and shade trees and 1-1/2 inch diameter for small accent and ornamental trees
(as measured six inches above ground). Refer to Recommended Master Plant
Material List for listing of trees.
         (b)   Evergreen trees shall be a minimum of four feet tall.
         (c)   Shrubs shall be a minimum of 18 inches in height and width at
planting.
      (2)   Maintenance and Replacement for Required Landscape Areas and Buffer
Yards. All landscaping materials shall be installed in accordance with
accepted, good construction and planting procedures. The owner/lessee or
responsible party of the property shall be responsible for the continued
maintenance of all landscaping materials and areas, and shall keep them in a
proper, neat and orderly appearance, free from refuse and debris at all times.
All unhealthy or dead plant material shall be replaced within one year, or by
the next planting period, whichever comes first. Violation of these
installation and maintenance provisions shall be grounds for the city to refuse
a building occupancy permit, require replacement of the landscape material or
institute legal proceedings to enforce the provisions of this section. Proper
maintenance should be accomplished by the following standards:
         (a)   All plant growth in landscaped areas shall be controlled by
pruning, trimming, or other suitable methods so that plant materials do not
interfere with public utilities, restrict pedestrian or vehicular access, or
otherwise constitute a hazard.
         (b)   All planted areas shall be maintained in a weed-free condition,
clear of undesirable undergrowth, and free from refuse and debris.
         (c)   Replacement plants shall conform to the standards that govern
the original installation. Dead or unhealthy plants shall be replaced within
the next planting season.
         (d)   Representatives of the city may inspect landscaping and compare
observed conditions with the approved landscaping plan on file.
      (3)   Buffer Yard Establishment. When a continuous physical screen is
required to prevent visual access from one use to another, then a buffer yard
will be required as identified in the "Landscape Requirements Matrix" in §
154.13.01(I). Once a buffer yard has been approved by the city and established
by the owner, it may not be used, disturbed or altered unless it complies with
the regulations of this section.
      (4)   Protection of Landscaping. All landscaping shall be protected from
damage by vehicles and pedestrians by the use of curbing, bollards, fencing, or
other devices.
   (E)   Screening and Buffering. To provide protective screening and buffers
for residential areas adjacent to nonresidential areas, a view obscuring wall,
fence or greenbelt shall be provided by the nonresidential property owner in
accordance with the following:
      (1)   Where vegetative and/or topographic conditions that provide a
natural screening
and buffer exists prior to development of properties in question, every effort
shall be made to retain such conditions. In such cases, additional screening
may not be required, provided that provision is made for maintenance of such
areas.
      (2)   The requirement for a wall, fence or greenbelt may be waived if
equivalent screening is provided by existing or planned parks, parkways,
recreation areas or by topography or their natural conditions.
      (3)   The space between such fence, wall or planting screen and the lot
line of the adjoining premises in any residential district shall be landscaped
with grass, hardy shrubs, or evergreen ground cover and maintained in good
condition.
   (F)   Right-of-way, Easements, and Setbacks.
      (1)   Required landscaping may be placed wholly or partially in the
right-of-way, utility or other easements, providing all landscaping
requirements can be fulfilled and written approval is granted by the holder of
the easements and/or right-of-way.
      (2)   Street trees shall be located no greater than 10 feet behind the
right-of-way. Street trees may be placed within the tree lawn upon approval of
the Parks and Recreation Director and Service Director. Shrubs shall not be
permitted in tree lawns. Trees placed under overhead utility wires shall be
chosen from the appropriate section of the "Master Plant Material List."
      (3)   In no case, however, shall landscaping and buffer yards be
established so as to block the sight distance at street or drive intersections.
Sight distance concerns shall be reviewed and approved by the Service Director.
Ground cover and trees with at least eight feet of limbless trunk may be
permitted within the sight distance triangle. In the case of a city street
intersection, the sight triangle shall consist of the area between points 50
feet along both intersecting streets from their respective edge of pavements.
   (G)   Landscaping for Vehicular Use Areas. Landscaping within parking areas,
whether ground cover or upright plant material, is necessary not only to reduce
the generation of heat and water runoff, but to break up, visually, the expanse
of paved areas. The use of parking islands or peninsulas strategically placed
throughout the parking lot is required to landscape parking lot interiors. The
use of shade trees in these landscape areas is encouraged. All off-street
parking areas, access drives or other vehicle use areas shall be landscaped
with plantings of grass, shrubs or trees according to the following minimum
requirements:
      (1)   Amount of Landscaping Required.
         (a)   Landscaping for any outdoor parking area containing six or more
spaces shall be provided around its perimeter as indicated in the "Landscape
Requirements Matrix."
         (b)   Vehicular use areas containing more than 6,000 square feet of
area or 20 or more vehicular parking spaces, whichever is less, shall provide
interior landscaping of the peninsular or island types of uncompacted, well-
drained soil as well as perimeter landscaping. An area equal to five percent
(5%) of the total area devoted to parking space and parking lanes shall be
landscaped and permeable.
      (2)   Interior Landscape Requirements.
         (a)   Minimum area. The minimum landscape area permitted shall be 112
square feet, with a minimum inside dimension width of seven feet.
         (b)   Maximum contiguous area. In order to encourage the required
landscape areas to be properly dispersed, no individual landscape area shall be
larger than 350 square feet in size in vehicular use areas less than 30,000
square feet and no individual area shall be larger than 1,500 square feet in
size in vehicular areas over 30,000 square feet. Individual landscape areas
larger than that indicated above shall be permitted as long as the additional
area is in excess of the required minimum total for the vehicular use area,
      (3)   Minimum Tree Specifications.
         (a)   Two trees shall be installed for every 5,000 square feet of
total ground covered by structures and pavement.
         (b)   To retain visibility, deciduous trees have a clear trunk of at
least five feet above the ground. The remaining area shall be landscaped with
hardwood mulch, shrubs, and/or ground cover, not to exceed two feet in height.
         (c)   Trees shall be planted at least four foot from the edge of
pavement where vehicles overhang.
         (d)   Permitted trees to fulfill this requirement include those listed
in the appropriate section of the “Recommended List of Trees for West
Carrollton.” Grouped ornamental and evergreen trees cannot be used to fulfill
this requirement. The required number of trees may be placed in any landscaped
area of sufficient size to support a mature tree specimen and shall meet the
requirements defined in § 154.13.01(D) above.
      (4)   Vehicle Overhang. Parked vehicles may hang over the interior
landscaped area no more than two (2) feet. Concrete or other wheel stops shall
be provided to ensure no greater overhang or penetration into the landscaped
area.
      (5)   Grass or ground cover shall be planted on all portions of the
property not occupied by structures, vehicular use areas or other plant
material. Any form of mulch shall only define a landscaped area and shall not
be permitted to be installed in lieu of grass or ground cover.
   (H)   Landscaping for Service Areas and Structures. Service structures shall
be screened in all zoning districts. Service structures shall include but not
be limited to: loading docks, propane tanks, dumpsters, outdoor storage areas,
electrical transformers, utility vaults and other equipment or elements
providing service to a building or a site. Structures may be grouped together,
however, screening height shall be based upon the tallest of the structures.
      (1)   Location of Screening. A continuous planting of evergreen, fence,
wall or earthen mound must enclose any service structure on all sides, unless
such structure must be frequently moved or accessed, in which case screening
material shall be established on three sides and shall be at least one foot
taller than the height of the enclosed structure, but shall not be required to
exceed ten feet in height in any case. If the fourth side is visible from the
public right-of-way, it shall be gated and screened. Plant material used to
screen a service structure shall be an evergreen species that retains its
needles throughout the year. Deciduous plant material cannot be used to fulfill
this screening requirement. The height of the evergreen plant material at
installation must be equal to, or greater than, two-thirds of the height of the
service structure(s) and meet the height and one hundred percent (100%) opacity
requirement within four years.
      (2)   Whenever a service structure is located next to a building, wall,
or vehicular use area, the building, wall, or vehicular use
screening material may fulfill the screening requirement for that side of the
service structure if the building, wall, or screening material is of sufficient
height to meet the height requirements set out in this section.
      (3)   Whenever service structures are screened by plant material, such
material may count toward the fulfillment of required interior or perimeter
landscaping. No interior landscaping shall be required within an area screened
for service structures.
      (4)   Protection of Screening. Whenever screening material is placed
around any trash disposal unit or waste collection unit which is emptied or
removed mechanically on a regular basis, a barrier shall be provided which will
prevent damage to the screening when the container is moved or emptied.
   (I)   Landscape Requirements Matrix.
 
              IS       A MINIMUM
WHEN...       PROPOSED LANDSCAPE   PLANT MATERIAL
              TO       REQUIREMENT
              ABUT...  OF...
                                   EITHER
                                   (1)   1 shade tree @ 30 feet on-center; and
              Any L-D, 20 feet     (2)   A double row 6 feet tall dense hedge.
Any           R, or O- side and    OR
commercial    R        rear buffer 1.   6 feet solid wall, fence or earth mound; and
land use      district yard is     2.   3 feet tall dense hedge @ 3 feet on-center, located on the outside of the
              or land  required    fence or wall; and
              use      with...     3.   1 street tree @ 30 feet on-center.
                                   OR
                                   1.   A double row, staggered planting of evergreen trees, 15 feet on-center.
                                   EITHER
                                   1.   25 feet wide earthen berm; and
              Any L-D, 20 feet     2.   A double row of staggered evergreen trees @ 15 feet on-center
Any           R, or O- side and    OR
manufacturing R        rear buffer 1.   6 feet solid wall or fence; and
or industrial district yard is     2.   3 feet tall dense hedge, located on the outside of the fence or wall.
land use      or land  required     
              use.     with...     FOR STORAGE YARDS
                                   1.   6 feet solid wall or fence; and
                                   2.   6 feet tall dense hedge if storage yard is in the front yard or parallel
                                   to access drive
 
 
              IS       A MINIMUM
WHEN...       PROPOSED LANDSCAPE   PLANT MATERIAL
              TO       REQUIREMENT
              ABUT...  OF...
                                   EITHER
              Any L-D, 15 feet     1.   1 shade tree @ 30 feet on-center; and
Any multi-    R, or O- side and    2.   A double row 6 feet dense hedge.
family land   R        rear buffer OR
use           district yard is     1.   6 feet solid wall, fence or earth mound; and
              or land  required    2.   A 3 feet tall dense hedge, located on the outside of the fence or wall.
              use      with...     OR
                                   1.   A staggered, double row, planting of evergreen trees @ 15 feet on-center
              Any L-D, 15 feet     EITHER
              R, or O- side and    (1.   A staggered, double row planting of evergreen trees @ 15 feet on-center.
Any           R        rear buffer OR
institutional district yard is     1.   A single row 6 feet dense hedge
land use      or land  required    OR
              use      with...     1.   A 6 feet solid wall or fence; and
                                   2.   1 shade tree @ 30 feet on-center.
                       Planting
              The      within the
Any land use  public   tree lawn,
except single right-   between the
family and    of-way,  curb and    1 shade tree @ 30 feet on-center
two-family    public   sidewalk or
dwellings     or       edge or
              private  pavement
              street   and
                       sidewalk.
              The      10% of
Any land use  public   total
except single right-   required
family and    of-way,  front yard  A combination of trees, shrubs, planting beds and/or perennials in a motif
two family    public   area must   designed by the owner. This is in addition to other required landscaping.
dwellings     or       be
              private  landscaped
              street   with...
 
 
           IS       A MINIMUM
WHEN...    PROPOSED LANDSCAPE   PLANT MATERIAL
           TO       REQUIREMENT
           ABUT...  OF...
A                   Five (5)
vehicular           feet
use area            perimeter   EITHER
associated Any      screening   1.   1 shade tree @ 30 feet on-center; and
with any   public   with a 6    2.   shrubs @ 3 feet on-center.
district   or       inch        OR
or land    private  concrete    1.   1 accent tree @ 25 feet on-center (1 tree minimum); and
use except street   curb on the 2.   shrubs @ 3 feet on-center.
single-             parking lot
family              side, and
residences          with...
 
   (J)   Modification. The city shall have the authority to modify any of the
aforementioned requirements when considering a proposed site plan in order to
address unique site-specific conditions or circumstances or with respect to
changes in elevation, environmental impact, durability of plant material,
aesthetic appeal, and any other factor that will result in a more compatible
buffer or screen with the surrounding neighborhood at the time of application.
The city shall base its decision on all of the following criteria:
      (1)   The specific conditions which are unique to the applicant's land.
      (2)   The manner in which the strict application of the provision of this
chapter would deprive the applicant of a reasonable use of the land in a manner
equivalent to the use permitted other landowners in the same zone.
      (3)   The unique conditions and circumstances are not the result of
actions of the applicant subsequent to the adoption of this section.
      (4)   Reasons that the modification shall preserve, not harm, the public
safety and welfare, and shall not alter the essential character of the
neighborhood.
      (5)   A demonstration that the applicant has provided for a buffer that
achieves the spirit of this section.
   (K)   Specifications for Plant Material. The above sections include
specifications for plant materials. All plant material shall be nursery grown
in accordance with good horticultural practices. Plant material shall meet
current standards set by the American Association of Nurserymen and shall be
freshly dug, have outstanding form and be free of disease, insects and/or
damage. Alternatives to these materials that can be shown to meet both the
intent and requirements of this Zoning Code may be approved as part of a site
plan:
      (1)   Shrubs. Shrubs shall be at least 18 inches average height at the
time of planting, and where required for screening, shall form a continuous,
year-round, solid visual screen within five (5) years after planting.
      (2)   Ground Cover and Grass. Ground cover shall be planted a minimum of
eight inches (8 in) on center and shall be planted in such a manner to present
a finished appearance and seventy-five percent (75%) coverage after one (1)
complete growing season. Grass shall be planted in species normally grown as
permanent lawns. Grass species shall be selected to assure slow growth and low
water consumption whenever possible. If approved as part of a Site Plan, ground
cover may also consist of rocks, pebbles, wood chips, and other material.
      (3)   Vines. Shall be at least 12 to 15 inches high at planting, and are
generally used in conjunction with walls and fences.
      (4)   Prohibited Species. Species considered exotic and invasive shall
not be utilized. Within any required landscaping, the following tree species
may not be used:
Common Name Scientific Name
Box Elder   Acer Negundo
Common Name              Scientific Name
Box Elder                Acer Negundo
Silver Maple             Acer Saccharinum
Buckeye, Horsechestnut   Aesculus Species
Tree of Heaven           Ailanthus Altissima
Paper Birch              Betula Papyrifera
European White Birch     Betula Pendula
Northern Catalpa         Catalpa Speciosa
Ginkgo (Female)          Ginkgo Biloba
Osage-orange             Maclura Ponifera
Apple                    Malus Punila
Mulberry                 Morus Species
Poplar                   Populus Species
Bradford Pear            Pyrus Calleryana “Bradford”
Upright English Oak      Quercus Robur “Fastigiata”
Black Locust             Robinia Pseudoacacia
Willow                   Salix Species
European Mountain Ash  Sorbus Aucuparia
Moline American Elm      Ulmus Americana “Moline”
Siberian Elm             Ulmus Pumila
 
      (5)   In addition to the species listed above, trees which produce nuts,
seeds, or fruit that can create a hazard to pedestrians or vehicles, shall not
be planted in such a manner that the natural dripline of an average adult tree
of the species planted will be any closer than three feet (3 ft.) of a
pedestrian walkway or parking lot.
      (6)   Diversity. As a rule, streets are often more attractive when they
contain only one kind of tree. However the use of several varieties adds
interest to the plantings of the city and insures against the loss of all trees
in case of an epidemic disease striking any one species. The International
Society of Arboriculture’s “Diversification Formula” will be used as a
guideline to prevent over planting of a single tree species or family. This
formula states that, out of the total tree planting, no more than 10% should be
from one family, and no more than 5% should be of one species. See Section L
which follows, the “Recommended Trees for West Carrollton.”
   (L)   Recommended Trees for West Carrollton. This list of recommended trees
for West Carrollton is designed to encourage an imaginative selection of
landscape trees. Careful selection will prevent an over-dependence on a few
species. This compilation will be useful to residents, nurserymen,
horticulturalists, landscapers, developers and landscape architects. Planting
and maintaining a diverse urban forest is the goal of West Carrollton’s tree
programs. This idea is reflected in landscape plan approval by the West
Carrollton Planning Commission and in the tree planting and replacement by the
city.
      Along an individual street, uniform street tree plantings are desirable.
However, over-use of a few species is inevitable without a conscious effort to
vary plant species and families.
      This list is divided into three size categories: large trees which mature
at a height of 50 feet or more (Group A); medium trees reaching a mature height
of between 30 and 50 feet (Group B); and small trees which range from 10 to 30
feet at maturity (Group C). Tree lawn sizes must accommodate the tree size
planted: Group A (> 7 ft.) Group B (4-7 ft.), Group C (3-4 ft.). Use under
utility lines is limited to small trees (Group C), although medium trees may be
planted as close as 10 lateral feet to utility lines.
      Trees are alphabetized by their scientific name with the common name
given. Species considered invasive exotics should be avoided. (i.e. Norway
Maple, Acer platanoides). Other species not on this list must be approved.
Approved Street Trees for West Carrollton, Ohio
      (1)   Large Trees (Group A).
Common Name Scientific Name
Common Name                     Scientific Name
Bald Cypress                    Taxodium Distichum
Black Gum (Tupelo)              Nyssa Sylvatica
Bur Oak                         Quercus Macrocarpa
Chinkapin Oak                   Quercus Muehlenbergii
Freemani Maple                  Acer X Freemani
Ginkgo (Male)                   Gingko Biloba
Green Ash                       Fraxinus Pennsylvanica
Hybrid Elm                      Ulmus X Spp.
Japanese Pagoda Tree            Sophora Japonica
Katsura Tree                    Cercidiphyllum Japonicum
Kentucky Coffeetree             Gymnocladus Diocus
Lacebark Elm                    Ulmus Parvifolia
Red Maple (Native)              Acer Rubrum
Red Oak                         Quercus Rubra
River Birch                     Betula Nigra
Sassafras                       Sassafras Albinum
Shingle Oak                     Quercus Imbricaria
Shumard Oak                     Quercus Shumardii
Silver Linden                   Tilia Tomentosa
Sugar Maple                     Acer Saccharum
Swamp White Oak                 Quercus Bicolor
Sweetgum (Northern Seed Source) Liquidambar Styraciflua
Turkish Filbert                 Corylus Colurna
White Ash                    Fraxinus Americana
 
      (2)   Medium Trees (Group B).
 
Common Name                       Scientific Name
Amur Corktree                     Phellodendron Amurense
Hedge Maple                       Acer Campestre
Honeylocust                       Gleditsia Triacanthos Var.
                                  Inermis
Purpleglow Maple (Shantung Maple) Acer Truncatum
Sargent Cherry                    Prunus Sargentii
Sawtooth Oak                      Quercus Acutissima
 
      (3)   Small Trees (Group C).
 
Common Name         Scientific Name
Autumnalis Cherry   Prunus Subhirtella Var. Autumnalis
Flowering Crabapple Malus Spp.
Japanese Tree Lilac Syringa Reticulata
Kousa Dogwood       Cornus Kousa
                    Amelanchier Arborea
Serviceberry        Amelanchier X
                    Grandiflora
Thornless Hawthorn  Crataegus Crusgalli Var.
                    Inermis
 
SITE PLAN REVIEW AND ACCESS MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.14.01 SITE PLAN REVIEW REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   When Site Plan Required.
      (1)   A site plan is required when the proposed development meets any of
the following:
         (a)   A conditional use or PUD application;
         (b)   Multi-family dwellings of over six (6) units; or
         (c)   New commercial or industrial property development.
         (d)   A substantial expansion of existing commercial or industrial
structures defined as follows:
            1.   Fifty (50) percent or greater expansion of an existing
structure or structures which comprise(s) one thousand (1,000) square feet or
less.
            2.   Forty (40) percent or greater expansion of an existing
structure or structures which comprise(s) one thousand and one (1,001) to ten
thousand (10,000) square feet.
            3.   Thirty (30) percent or greater expansion of an existing
structure or structures which comprise(s) ten thousand and one (10,001) to
twenty-five thousand (25,000) square feet.
            4.   Twenty (20) percent or greater expansion of an existing
structure or structures which comprise(s) twenty five thousand and one (25,001)
to fifty thousand (50,000) square feet.
            5.   Ten (10) percent or greater expansion of an existing structure
or structures which comprise(s) fifty thousand and one (50,001) square feet or
more.
(Ord. 3528. Passed 6-25-13.)
      (2)   In order to promote the appropriate preparation of a site plan
consistent with the goals and objectives of this Zoning Code, the Planning
Commission may encourage and engage in informal discussions with the applicant
prior to formal submission of the site plan. Such review of preliminary plans
and issues will provide greater assurance that the project complies with the
objectives, standards, and criteria of this Zoning Code before major design and
engineering expenditures have been committed to the project. This review
reduces the likelihood that major adjustments and revisions would be required
as a result of deficiencies found during the formal review of the plans.
   (B)   Formal Applications for Site Plan Approval. All applications for site
plan approval shall be submitted to the Zoning Enforcement Officer and shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   A written description of proposed development that includes:
         (a)   The applicant’s name, address, and phone number;
         (b)   A signed statement that the applicant is the owner of the
property or officially acting on the owner’s behalf;
         (c)   The address and parcel number of the property;
         (d)   The name and address of the property owner(s) of record, if the
applicant is not the owner;
         (e)   Name and address of the engineer, architect, and/or surveyor;
         (f)   Project description, including the total number of structures,
units, bedrooms, offices, square feet, total and useable floor area, parking
spaces, employees by shift, and similar related project-specific information;
         (g)   Project completion schedule/development phases; and
         (h)   Names and addresses of all contiguous and adjacent property
owners.
      (2)   A traffic impact study (if required according to § 154.14.02).
      (3)   When a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWP3) is required in
accordance with Ohio Environmental Protection Agency regulations, a copy of
such plan shall be submitted with the site plan.
      (4)   Site plan drawing(s) which illustrate the following information:
         (a)   A vicinity map drawn at a scale of 1” = 2000’ and a site/
landscape plan at a scale of not less than one inch equals 50 feet, with north
arrow indicated;
         (b)   The gross and net acreage of all parcels in the project;
         (c)   Land uses, zoning classification, and existing structures on the
subject parcel and adjoining parcels;
         (d)   Location of proposed and/or existing property lines, dimensions,
legal descriptions, setback lines, and monument locations;
         (e)   Existing topographic elevations at two-foot intervals, proposed
grades, and direction of drainage flows;
         (f)   Location and type of existing trees on the site with a diameter
of six inches (6") or more at four and one-half feet (4-1/2') feet above grade.
Included with the location of the tree should be the associated “drip line;”
         (g)   Location and elevations of existing watercourses and water
bodies, including natural and/or man-made surface drainage ways, flood plains,
and wetlands;
         (h)   Location of existing and proposed buildings and intended uses
thereof, as well as the length, width, and height of each building;
         (i)   Proposed location of accessory structures, buildings, and uses
including, but not limited to, all flagpoles, light poles, bulkheads, docks,
storage sheds, transformers, air conditioners, generators, and similar
equipment, and the method of screening where applicable;
         (j)   Location of existing public roads, rights-of-way and private
easements of record, and abutting streets;
         (k)   Location and dimensions of proposed streets, drives, curb cuts,
and access easements, as well as acceleration, deceleration, and passing lanes
(if any) serving the development;
         (l)   Location, design, and dimensions of existing and/or proposed
curbing, barrier-free access, carports, parking areas (including indication of
all spaces and method of surfacing), fire lanes, and all lighting thereof;
         (m)   Location, size, and characteristics of all loading and unloading
areas;
         (n)   Location and design of all sidewalks, walkways, bicycle paths,
and areas for public use;
         (o)   Location of water supply lines and/or wells including fire
hydrants and shut off valves, and the location and design of storm sewers,
retention or detention ponds, waste water lines, clean out locations,
connection points, and treatment systems including septic systems, if
applicable;
         (p)   Location of all other utilities on the site including but not
limited to natural gas, electric, cable TV, telephone, and steam;
         (q)   Proposed location, dimensions and details of common open spaces
and common facilities such as community buildings or swimming pools, if
applicable;
         (r)   Location, size, and specifications of all signs and advertising
features;
         (s)   Exterior lighting locations with area of illumination
illustrated, as well as the type of fixtures and shielding to be used;
         (t)   Location and specifications for all fences, walls, and other
screening features with cross- sections;
         (u)   Location and specifications for all proposed perimeter and
internal landscaping, and other buffering features. For each new landscape
material, the proposed size at the time of planting must be indicated. All
vegetation to be retained on the site must also be indicated, as well as its
typical size by general location, or range of sizes as appropriate;
         (v)   Location, size, and specifications for screening of all trash
receptacles and other solid waste disposal facilities;
         (w)   Location and specifications for any existing or proposed above
or below ground storage facilities for any chemicals, salts, flammable
materials or hazardous materials, as well as any containment structures or
clear zones required by government authorities;
         (x)   Identification of any significant site amenities or unique
natural features;
         (y)   Identification of any significant views onto or from the site,
to or from adjoining areas; and
         (z)   North arrow, scale, and date of original submittal and last
revision.
   (C)   Site Plan Review.
      (1)   Approval Process. All applications for site plan approval shall be
submitted to the Zoning Enforcement Officer. Once deemed to be complete, the
Planning Commission shall review all submitted materials and may approve (or
approve with modifications) a site plan and authorize the issuance of a zoning
certificate upon finding said plans are consistent with the purposes,
objectives, and requirements of this Zoning Code.
         (a)   The Planning Commission shall take action on any site plan
submitted under this section within sixty (60) days from the time the Zoning
Enforcement Officer receives a complete submission of required materials. Any
person submitting a site plan may agree to a longer review period by the
Planning Commission.
         (b)   Prior to authorizing the issuance of zoning certificates, the
Board may seek expert advice or cause special studies to be made for input to
its review of any plans or proposals submitted. Proposed building plans shall
be reviewed by building officials and authorized representatives of the Fire
Department to assure conformance with appropriate fire, safety, building, and
sanitary conditions.
         (c)   The applicant may be requested or may volunteer to provide
additional information or re- study all or part of the proposal, or to have
additional studies done. The costs of securing expert advise or studies shall
be borne by the applicant, but in no event shall such cost exceed the sum of
one thousand dollars ($1,000) unless agreed to by the applicant. The Planning
Commission may submit any or all site plans and proposals to any other similar
organization for review and recommendations prior to acting on any such plan.
         (d)   When a particular site plan involves a variance request and/or
conditional use approval, the Planning Commission may consider such matters
concurrently with site plan approval provided all other applicable hearing and
notification requirements are met.
      (2)   Review Criteria. All site plans shall be reviewed on the basis of
uniform criteria that advance the principals of good site design to provide
safe vehicular access and pedestrian movement. Site plans shall also be
reviewed on the basis of achieving site designs that will promote a healthy
natural and built environment for residents and will advance principles defined
in applicable community planning documents and this Zoning Code. Specific
approval criteria include the following:
         (a)   The site plan shall show (consistent with the findings of a
Traffic Impact Study if included) that a proper relationship will exist between
thoroughfares, service roads, driveways, and parking areas to encourage
pedestrian and vehicular traffic safety on both public and private lands.
         (b)   All development features, including the principal buildings,
open spaces, service roads, driveways and parking areas, shall be so located
and related as to minimize the possibility of adverse effects upon adjacent
development.
         (c)   Building location and placement shall be developed with
consideration given to minimizing removal of trees (in accordance with former §
154.13.01(B)(1)(f) and change of topography.
         (d)   Maximum visual and auditory privacy for surrounding properties
and occupants shall be provided through the design of the relationship among
buildings, fences and walls, landscaping, topography, and open space.
         (e)   Parking area landscaping and screening shall channel traffic
flow in a safe manner, and on-site traffic circulation shall be designed to
provide adequate access for fire and police protection, and minimize
interference with the traffic carrying capacity of adjacent streets.
         (f)   Refuse storage and pick-up facilities shall be indicated on the
site plan and shall be fenced, screened, or landscaped to prevent blowing or
scattering of refuse, and to provide an adequate visual barrier from locations
both on- and off-site.
         (g)   All utilities on-site shall be located underground.
         (h)   Grading and surface drainage provisions shall be designed to
minimize adverse effects on abutting properties, streams, and public streets,
and to minimize the possibility of erosion in a manner consistent with the
requirements of a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWP3).
         (i)   The design and construction standards of all private roads,
driveways, and parking areas, shall conform to the provisions of former §
154.12.01 and/or as may be recommended through engineering review. All private
streets, driveways, and parking areas are to be of a useable shape and improved
with asphalt, concrete, or other durable and dustless pavement or surface.
         (j)   When a proposed site plan includes a conditional use and/or
variance, respective standards and conditions contained in Sections 154.06.01
and 154.07.01 shall be met.
      (3)   Action on Site Plans. 
         (a)   The Planning Commission shall take one of three actions on a
site plan as described below:
            1.   A site plan may be approved as submitted.
            2.   A site plan may be approved with modifications expressly
stated in a motion passed by the Planning Commission.
            3.   A site plan may be approved as submitted (or with
modifications) in phases as described in subsection F of this Section.
         (b)   Within 180 days following action by the Planning Commission, the
applicant shall obtain a Zoning Permit in accordance with the requirements in §
154.05.07.
   (D)   Conformance with Approved Site Plans. All aspects of the development
shall conform to the approved site plan.
   (E)   Amendments to Approved Site Plans. Amendments to approved site plans
may be made in the same manner as an original site plan approval except that an
applicant need not resubmit information that has already been submitted as part
of a previous site plan review process.
   (F)   Phased Site Plans. In order to assure that a project will be developed
in a manner consistent with the purposes of this Zoning Code, the Planning
Commission may require or agree that the site plan(s) for a project be
submitted indicating development in phases, if such project can logically be
divided into phases. The Planning Commission shall review the entire project
for conformance with all applicable regulations in this Code and shall give
preliminary approval to the entire project if it so conforms. However, the
Planning Commission shall also have the power to limit final approval and
authorization for the Zoning Enforcement Officer to issue zoning or conditional
zoning certificates to one section or phase of the total development at a time.
Approval of subsequent phases shall be given subject to the following:
      (1)   Upon substantial compliance with the site plan(s) given preliminary
approval; and
      (2)   Upon conformance with all applicable regulations of this Zoning
Code; and
      (3)   Upon a finding by the Planning Commission that all preceding phases
conform to all requirements of this Zoning Code and conform to approved site
plans.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed)
   (G)   Guarantee for Installation of Public Improvements.
      (1)   All site improvements shall conform to the approved site plan and
construction plans.
      (2)   To provide assurance to the City that public improvements will be
completed once construction has begun, the developer shall furnish a bond
executed by a surety company, letter of credit, or certified check equal to the
cost of construction of such public improvements as shown on the approved
plans, and based on an estimate approved by the City Manager as advised by the
Service Director and in a form approved by the Law Director. Such surety shall
be provided prior to issuance of a building permit for the project. Letters of
credit shall not permit draws by the developer without the express approval of
the City.
         (a)   For the purposes of this section, construction shall be defined
as any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate related to one or
more of the following public improvements: earth-disturbing activities
including clearing, excavating, filling, and grading of property; driveway
approaches; sidewalks; street surfacing; curbs, gutters, and public sanitary
sewers; public water supply; stormwater detention facilities; stormwater best
management practices for runoff quality; and street signs.
      (3)   The performance bond, letter of credit, or certified check shall
run to the City and shall provide that the developer, his heirs, successors and
assigns, their agent or servants, upon commencement of construction, will
comply with all applicable terms, conditions, provisions and requirements of
these regulations; will faithfully perform and complete the work of
constructing and installing all public improvements in accordance with such
laws and regulations; will complete all public improvements prior to issuance
of a final occupancy permit for the project; and will complete all public
improvements within one (1) year from the date of final approval of the
building permit, but the bond or letter of credit will run indefinitely until
released by the City. In no case shall the work be completed after one (1) year
from the date of final approval of the building permit, unless an extension is
granted by the City as specified below.
      (4)   Upon commencement of construction, if the installation of any
public improvement, for which guarantee has been made by the developer in the
form of bond, letter of credit, or certified check, is not completed within one
(1) year from the date of final approval of the building permit, the developer
may request the City to grant an extension of six (6) months, provided (s)he
can show reasonable cause for inability to complete said public improvement(s)
within the required one (1) year. A maximum of two six-month extensions may be
granted. At the expiration of the extension(s), the City will use as much of
the bond, letter of credit, or certified check as necessary to complete the
construction of the public improvements.
      (5)   All public improvements located within the public right-of-way
shall be completed within 14 days of initial excavation, unless an extension is
granted for reasonable cause by the City Manager as advised by the Service
Director and Director of City Planning.
      (6)   As required public improvements are completed, approved, and
accepted, the City Manager, as advised by the Service Director and Director of
City Planning, may reduce the amount of the performance bond, letter of credit,
or certified check.
      (7)   Periodic inspections during the installation of public improvements
shall be made by the City to ensure conformity with the approved plans and
specifications as required by these regulations.
      (8)   The developer shall schedule required inspections at least forty-
eight (48) hours in advance with proper administrative officials.
      (9)   The absence of an inspector from a project during construction
shall not relieve the developer from full responsibility under this agreement.
Upon acceptable completion of installation of the required public improvements,
the City Manager as advised by the Service Director and Director of City
Planning shall issue a letter to the developer or his/her agent and such letter
shall be sufficient evidence for the release by the City.
      (10)   When the Service Director and Director of City Planning, following
final inspection of a project, certify to the City Manager that all public
improvements have been constructed in accordance with City specifications, the
City Manager may proceed to accept the facilities for which bond, letter of
credit, or certified check has been posted.
      (11)   Whenever public improvements have not been constructed in
accordance with the agreement and with specifications as established, the City
Manager as advised by the Service Director and Director of City Planning may
exercise his/her rights of foreclosure under the bond, letter of credit, or
certified check.
      (12)   Should construction not commence prior to expiration of the
building permit and any extensions granted in accordance with this section, the
performance bond, letter of credit, or certified check shall be released in its
entirety by the City. (Ord. 3477. Passed 4-12-11.)
§ 154.14.02 ACCESS MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of these access management regulations is to
promote and protect the public health and safety by providing development
regulations that will result in safer access to property and safer traffic
flow. It is recognized that land use and site planning issues are directly
linked to the capacity of roadways to efficiently move traffic through an area
and provide safe access to adjoining property. It is also recognized that
achieving an appropriate balance between roadway access to adjoining property
and the ability of roadways to carry through traffic will not only reduce
future congestion and accident rates, but will also enhance emergency vehicle
response times. These requirements are further intended to help achieve the
following objectives:
      (1)   Provide a standard set of analytic tools and format for preparing
Traffic Impact Studies.
      (2)   Allow the community to assess the effects that a proposed project
may have on the community by outlining information needed and evaluation
procedures to be used.
      (3)   Help ensure safe and reasonable traffic operating conditions on
streets and intersections after development of the proposed use.
      (4)   Reduce the negative traffic impacts created by individual
developments, which may negatively impact such developments, by helping to
ensure the transportation system can accommodate the expected traffic safely
and efficiently.
      (5)   Realize a comprehensive approach to the overall impacts of various
developments along a corridor or within part of a community rather than a
piecemeal approach.
      (6)   Provide direction to community decision-makers, road agencies, and
developers of expected impacts of a project.
      (7)   Alert the community, transportation agencies, and developers of
improvements or modifications needed to the roadway, access, or site design.
      (8)   Protect the substantial public investment in the existing street
system.
   (B)   Traffic Impact Study Required.
      (1)   A Traffic Impact Study shall be required and shall be submitted by
an applicant as part of a proposed site plan in accordance with § 154.14.01
when the proposed development will generate or has the potential to generate
more than one hundred (100) vehicle trip ends during the peak hour of
generation according to the most recent version of the ITE trip generation
manual. A vehicle trip end is the total of entering and exiting vehicles for
the proposed development at full build out and occupancy.
Estimates of traffic volumes shall be based on weekday traffic for locations at
which weekday employment predominates. Retail development shall include weekend
traffic volumes in the estimates. Traffic impact studies are not required for
any type of residential subdivision.
      (2)   A Traffic Impact Study shall also be required for new phases or
changes to an existing development where a traffic study is more than two (2)
years old and roadway conditions have changed significantly (volumes increasing
more than two percent (2%) annually). Additionally, a Traffic Impact Study
shall be required for a change or expansion at an existing site where it is
expected to increase traffic more than one hundred (100) vehicle trip ends
during the peak hour of generation according to the most recent version of the
ITE trip generation manual.
   (C)   Design Years. The traffic impact study design year horizon for a
proposed development shall be twenty (20) years from opening day. However, if
the vehicle trip ends in the peak hour of the proposed development is greater
than 100, but less than 400, the design year horizon shall be ten (10) years
from opening day.
   (D)   Traffic Impact Study Contents.
      (1)   Description of the site, surroundings, and study area:
Illustrations and a narrative should describe the characteristics of the site
and adjacent roadway system (functional classification, lanes, speed limits,
etc.). This description should include surrounding land uses, expected
development in the vicinity which could influence future traffic conditions,
special site features and a description of any planned roadway improvements.
The study should define and justify the study area selected for analysis.
      (2)   Description of the proposed development: A description of the
proposed development should be provided, such as the number and types of
dwelling units, the gross and usable floor area, the number of employees, and
shift change factors. Intended phasing or future expansion should also be
noted.
      (3)   Description of existing traffic conditions: 
         (a)   Traffic counts: Existing conditions including existing peak-hour
traffic volumes (and daily volumes if applicable) on street(s) adjacent to the
site. Existing counts, including turn movement counts, for intersections in the
vicinity which are expected to be impacted should be provided. Traffic count
data shall not be more than two (2) years old.
         (b)   Traffic counts shall be taken on a Tuesday, Wednesday, or
Thursday of non-holiday weeks.
         (c)   Roadway characteristics shall be described and illustrated, as
appropriate. Features to be addressed include lane configurations, geometries,
signal timing, traffic control devices, posted speed limits, average running
speeds, and any sight distance limitations. Existing levels of service shall be
calculated for intersections included within the study area.
         (d)   Existing driveways and potential turning movement conflicts in
the vicinity of the site shall be illustrated and described.
         (e)   The existing right-of-way shall be identified along with any
planned expansion of the right- of-way.
      (4)   Background Traffic Growth: The traffic impact study shall examine
“before and after” conditions in order to evaluate traffic impacts associated
with the proposed development. The impacts of all access alternatives on
highway capacity and throughput shall be calculated for the opening year Build
and No-Build conditions and for the design year Build and No-Build conditions
using appropriate computer analysis software as agreed to and acceptable to the
City.
      (5)   Trip Generation: 
         (a)   Forecasted trip generation of the proposed development for the
a.m. (if applicable) and p.m. peak hour and average day shall be calculated.
This forecast shall be based on the data and procedures outlined in the most
recent edition of Trip Generation published by the Institute of Transportation
Engineers (ITE).
         (b)   Any trip reduction for pass-by trips, transit, ride sharing,
other modes, internal capture rates, etc., shall be based both on ITE findings
and documented survey results acceptable to the agency reviewers. The community
may elect to reduce the trip reduction rates used.
         (c)   For projects intended to be developed in phases, the trip
generation by phase shall be described.
      (6)   Trip Distribution: 
         (a)   The projected traffic generated shall be distributed (inbound v.
outbound, left turn v. right turn) onto the existing street network to project
turning movements at site access points and nearby intersections where
required.
         (b)   Projected turning movements shall be illustrated in the report.
         (c)   A description of the application of standard engineering
procedures for determining the distribution shall be attached (trip
distribution model, market studies, counts at existing driveways, etc.).
      (7)   Impact Analysis: Level of service or “capacity” analysis at the
proposed access points using the procedures outlined in the most recent edition
of the Highway Capacity Manual published by the Transportation Research Board
shall be provided. Before and after capacity analyses shall be performed for
all street intersections where the expected traffic generated at the site will
comprise at least five percent (5%) of the existing intersection capacity.
      (8)   Access Design/Access Management Standards: The study shall include
a map and description of the location and design of proposed access (driveways
or new street intersections) including: any sight distance limitations,
dimensions from adjacent driveways and intersections within one thousand
(1,000) feet on either side of the main roadway, data to demonstrate that the
number of driveways proposed is the fewest necessary, and support that the
access points will provide safe and efficient traffic operation.
      (9)   Other Study Items: The Traffic Impact Study shall also include the
following:
         (a)   Need for, or provision of, any additional right-of-way where
planned or desired by the applicable transportation agency.
         (b)   Changes that should be considered to the site plan layout.
         (c)   If the use involves a drive-through facility, the adequacy of
the queuing area should be evaluated.
         (d)   If a median crossover is desired, separate analysis should be
provided.
         (e)   If a traffic signal is being requested, the applicable traffic
signal warrants shall be provided along with an analysis of traffic progression
along the roadway through coordination with other signals.
         (f)   Description of site circulation and available sight distances at
site driveways.
      (10)   Mitigation/Alternatives: The Traffic Impact Study shall outline
mitigation measures and demonstrate any changes to the level of service
achieved by these measures. Any alternatives or suggested phasing of
improvements should be described. The mitigation measures may include items
such as roadway widening, turn lane geometries, changes to signalization,
elimination or combination of access points, or reduction in the proposed
intensity of use. Any applicable local or State agency shall review proposed
mitigation measures. The construction and timing of roadway improvements shall
be described.
      (11)   Qualifications of Traffic Impact Study Preparer: The preparation
of a thorough traffic impact study requires extensive background and experience
in traffic analysis. The person responsible for the preparation of the study
shall meet the following requirements:
         (a)   Any Traffic Impact Study involving roadway or traffic signal
design work shall be prepared by, or under the supervision of, a registered
engineer (P.E.) with specific training in traffic engineering.
         (b)   The Traffic Impact Study should include a resume of the preparer
responsible for the report. The Traffic Impact Study may also include relevant
experience of the preparer’s firm. The study should also be signed by the
preparer with full recognition of potential liability for the results and
recommendations outlined in the report.
   (E)   Access Management Standards.
      (1)   Access to Parcel: To preserve and maintain efficient traffic
movement, permitted access to all thoroughfares shall be limited as defined
herein. A goal of these access management standards is to limit and reduce the
number of driveways in favor of combined driveways and the construction of
service roads to handle access to multiple parcels. These regulations are in
addition to any other state, or local approvals required.
         (a)   Number of Driveways: Each lot is permitted to have a single,
two-way driveway except in cases where a Traffic Impact Study clearly
demonstrates the benefits of a second driveway from the standpoint of traffic
movement. Examples of where a second drive may be justified include large
corner lots where driveways on both streets may be desirable and instances
where two, one-way drives are preferred more than one, two-way drive.
         (b)   Location of Driveways: All driveways shall be located as far as
practical from the intersection of public streets.
         (c)   Conditional Approval of Driveways: As part of the site plan
review process, a site plan may be approved with a specific driveway location
under the condition that an agreement be reached between the property owner and
the City requiring that such driveway(s) be closed when specific circumstances
are met. Such circumstances may include the future construction of a service
road on adjacent property, the opportunity for a shared driveway with
development of adjacent property, or other site-specific circumstances. This
conditional approval may be required even if the driveway(s) conforms to all
other requirements of this section.
         (d)   Driveway Alignment: New driveways shall be aligned with existing
driveways across a street unless such alignment is shown to be undesirable in a
Traffic Impact Study. Where such alignments are shown to be undesirable, the
centerlines of opposing driveways shall be offset at least one hundred feet
(100').
HISTORY: (Newly proposed)
CONSERVATION DISTRICT DESIGN REVIEW REGULATIONS
§ 154.15.01 DESIGN REVIEW.
   The purpose of these West Carrollton Conservation District Design Review
Regulations are:
   (A)   To safeguard the architectural integrity and cohesiveness of the
oldest buildings and parts of the community important to the City’s history in
order to contribute to the economic, recreational, cultural, and educational
development of the City of West Carrollton;
   (B)   To maintain and enhance property values to promote the use of,
facilitate reinvestment in, and stimulate revitalization of buildings and areas
found to have historic architectural significance; and
   (C)   To provide controls and procedural standards for the preservation of
older homes in historically significant areas.
§ 154.15.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply only to the provisions of the West
Carrollton Conservation District Design Review Regulations of the City of West
Carrollton Zoning Code:
   APPLICANT. Any owner, owners, person(s), association, partnership, or
corporation who applies for a Certificate of Appropriateness in order to
undertake any change on property subject to these West Carrollton Conservation
District Design Review Regulations.
   WEST CARROLLTON CONSERVATION DISTRICT. Any area within the corporate limits
of the City of West Carrollton, Ohio, designated by Council to be subject to
the provisions of these West Carrollton Conservation District Design Review
Regulations.
§ 154.15.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE DESIGN REVIEW ARCHITECT.
   (A)   In order to carry out the efficient review of applications subject to
the Conservation District Design Regulations, the city shall contract with an
Architect familiar with the style and construction of historic structures, and
licensed as an Architect by the State of Ohio.
   (B)   Within the boundaries of the West Carrollton Conservation District
subject to design review, the Design Review Architect shall review any
demolition permit for a principle structure.
   (C)   After review of the plans for the new construction, addition, or
demolition, the Design Review Architect shall prepare a written report to the
Zoning Enforcement Officer giving his professional opinion about whether the
plans meet the Specific Architectural Design Guidelines contained in Section
154.15.05.
§ 154.15.04 TRIGGERING MECHANISM FOR DESIGN REVIEW.
   (A)   An application for a Certificate of Appropriateness issued by the
Zoning Enforcement Officer shall be required for all property located within
the West Carrollton Heritage District for the following activities:
      (1)   New construction of a principal structure; or
      (2)   Additions to principal structures; or
      (3)   Demolition of principal structures.
   (B)   Whenever an applicant applies for a Zoning Certificate, the permit
application will be deemed as an application for a Certificate of
Appropriateness.
§ 154.15.05 SPECIFIC ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN GUIDELINES.
   (A)   New Construction of a principal structure. The minimum height of a new
structure shall be two stories
   (B)   Demolition of principle structures. In reviewing the proposed
demolition of a principle structure, the Design Review Architect and Zoning
Enforcement Officer shall utilize the following guidelines in their review and
deliberation:
      (1)   A demolition permit shall not be issued by the Building Inspector
unless accompanied by an approved Certificate of Appropriateness. Such a
Certificate of appropriateness shall be issued by the Zoning Enforcement
Officer, after review and comment by the Design Review Architect, only if the
applicant has given clear evidence that one of the following conditions exist:
         (b)   The structure has incurred extensive damage to its basic
structural elements such as the roof, walls, and foundation requiring
substantial reconstruction and presents an immediate danger to the public
safety as declared by the Chief Building Inspector.
         (c)   The structure has been declared a public nuisance under Section
150.70 of the West Carrollton Code of Ordinances.
         (d)   The structure is not consistent with other structures in the
district in terms of historic character, architectural style, construction
material, height, setback, mass or use.
         (e)   The square foot cost of meeting the minimum building code would
exceed the square foot market value of similarly used and improved structures
in the district. If the applicant applies for the removal of a structure in
accordance with this section, the following evidence shall be submitted to the
Zoning Enforcement Officer:
            (1)   An itemized cost estimate provided by a qualified architect,
engineer, or contractor indicating those items required to meet the minimum
building code; and
            (2)   A market analysis by an appraiser or qualified real estate
professional indicating the square foot value of similarly used and improved
structures in the district; and
            (3)   A demolition cost estimate.
§ 154.15.06 LIMITATION ON ISSUANCE OF ZONING & DEMOLITION PERMITS
   No Demolition Permit shall be issued by the Building Inspector for
demolition of any principle structure within the West Carrollton Conservation
District prior to obtaining a Certificate of Appropriateness, in accordance
with the requirements outlined below.
§ 154.15.07 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   When the owner of a property within the West Carrollton Conservation
District proposes the demolition of a principle structure within the
Conservation District, they shall first apply for and secure a Certificate of
Appropriateness from the Zoning Enforcement Officer in accordance with the
triggering requirements of § 154.15.04. The application for a Certificate of
Appropriateness shall be made through the Building Inspector, together with
such plans, specifications, and other material as the Design Review Architect
and Zoning Enforcement Officer may need to adequate review the application for
compliance with these regulations.
   (B)   If the proposed demolition is determined by the Zoning Enforcement
Officer, after review and comment by the Design Review Architect, to have no
adverse effect on the West Carrollton Conservation District and does not
violate the spirit and purpose of these regulations, then the Zoning
Enforcement Officer shall issue the Certificate of Appropriateness.
   (C)   If the Zoning Enforcement Officer, after review and comment by the
Design Review Architect, determines that the proposed demolition will have an
adverse effect on the West Carrollton Conservation District, and does violate
the spirit and purposes of these regulations, then the Zoning Enforcement
Officer shall deny issuance of the Certificate of Appropriateness.
   (D)   In the event that the Zoning Enforcement Officer determines that a
Certificate of Appropriateness shall not be issued, they shall notify the
applicant and the Building Inspector in writing of the reasons for such
determination.
§ 154.15.08 PENALTIES.
   Whoever demolishes any principle structure in violation of these West
Carrollton Conservation District Design Review Regulations shall be deemed in
violation of the Municipal Code and such violation shall be punishable under §
154.05.09 of the Municipal Code.
§ 154.15.09 MINIMUM MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENT.
   The owner of an historic structure or any structure within the West
Carrollton Conservation District shall provide sufficient maintenance and
upkeep for such structure to ensure its perpetuation and to prevent its
destruction by deterioration, whether the building is vacant or inhabited.
§ 154.15.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of these West Carrollton Conservation District Design
Review Regulations or the application thereof is held invalid, such invalidity
shall not affect other provisions or applications of these regulations which
can be given effect without the invalid provision or application and to this
end the provisions of these West Carrollton Conservation District Design Review
Regulations are hereby declared severable.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed)
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS FOR SPECIFIC LAND USES
§ 154.16.01 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND USES.
   (A)   Location. Accessory uses, buildings and related structures may be
permitted in any zoning district in association with a principal use or
structure as long as they are incidental and customary to the operation of the
permitted or conditional uses and harmonious with uses upon adjacent
properties. Accessory uses shall meet all yard requirements for accessory
buildings.
   (B)   Regulations for Various Types of Accessory Buildings.
      (1)   Detached. Accessory buildings which have no structural connection
to the principal building shall be regarded as detached accessory buildings.
Detached accessory buildings shall not be located closer than five feet from a
principal structure.
         (a)   Height. No detached accessory building may exceed the height of
the principal building or 15 feet, whichever is less, except when associated
with an agricultural use.
         (b)   Front and side yards. Detached accessory buildings may not be
located within the required front or side yards.
         (c)   Rear yards. Detached accessory buildings may be located within
required rear yards. The total area occupied by all accessory buildings may not
exceed 35% of the area of the required rear yard. On corner lots, the rear yard
shall be considered to extend across the entire width of the lot for the
purpose of computing the area of the required rear yard.
         (d)   Setbacks. Detached accessory buildings shall not be located
closer than five feet to any lot line. Detached accessory buildings also shall
not be located closer to the road right-of-way than the principal structure.
Further, no accessory building on a corner lot shall be closer to the side lot
line of an adjacent lot than the minimum side yard requirement for the zoning
district in which the accessory building is located.
      (2)   Connected. Accessory buildings which are connected to the principal
building by an open breezeway or covered walkway shall be regarded as connected
accessory buildings. Connected accessory buildings shall meet the requirements
of detached accessory buildings. The area of connecting breezeways or covered
walkways shall be included in the calculation of the area of accessory
buildings.
      (3)   Attached. Accessory buildings that are joined to a principal
building with a permanent structure having a roof, walls and a foundation, or
that are otherwise structurally part of the principal building, shall be
regarded as being part of the principal building for the purpose of determining
setbacks.
         (a)   Yard requirements. Attached accessory buildings shall meet all
yard requirements for principal buildings.
         (b)   Retail Sales and Services. Attached retail sales and services
are permitted as accessory uses when clearly incidental to the principal use.
With the exception of restaurants in conjunction with a motel, such uses shall
be conducted wholly within the principal building, and without exterior
advertising or display. These activities shall be conducted solely for the
convenience of the employees, patients, patrons, students, or visitors and not
for the general retail public. In hospitals and clinics, these accessory uses
may include drug stores, florists, gift and book shops, and cafeterias. In
institutional settings, office buildings, hotels, country club houses, and
airports, such activities may include gift and book shops, restaurants,
cafeterias and coffee shops, lounges, pro shops, and beauty and barber shops.
HISTORY: (Newly proposed)
   (C)   Maximum Size. The area of all attached or detached accessory buildings
in residential districts shall not exceed 50% of the above-ground  living area
of the principal building or 800 square feet, whichever is greater. On
residential lots larger than one- half acre in size, the allowable area of
accessory buildings shall be increased by 100 square feet for each 10,000
square feet in excess of one-half acre. The area of any connected accessory
structure shall include breezeways, covered walkways, or similar structures.
   (D)   Residential Districts.
      Any accessory use or structure incidental and customary to the operation
of the permitted or conditional uses may be permitted if it does not involve
the conduct of any business, trade, or industry. (Ord. 3274. Passed 7- 13-04.)
§ 154.16.02 CLUSTER RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   The intent of Cluster Residential Subdivisions are to provide for and
encourage flexible and creative development techniques aimed toward providing a
healthy and safe, natural, and built environment. The following requirements
shall be satisfied:
   (A)   Property Ownership Requirements. Any ownership arrangement, including
fee simple lots or condominiums are permitted in Cluster Residential
Subdivisions. The arrangement of dwelling units shall comply with all
development standards contained in the applicable zoning district except as
modified below.
      (1)   Permitted Density. The maximum number of housing units permitted in
a Cluster Residential Subdivision is determined by using the minimum lot area
required in the zoning district and shall use the following formula:
   (TSA/MLA) * 90 percent
   TSA : Total site area in square footage, excluding any area within the
existing public right-of-way or land that is subject to an existing
conservation easement. Total site area also does not include any area occupied
by ponds that are greater than one acre in size.
   MLA : Minimum lot area in square footage required in a given zoning
district.
90 percent = A factor to account for public or private right-of-way required in
a development.
         When the above formula produces a fractional value, the number shall
be rounded to the nearest whole number.
      (2)   Density Bonus. At the sole option of the developer, a bonus of
additional housing units will be allowed when required open space is made
available to the public. For every whole acre of land devoted to walking/biking
trails, equestrian trails, park areas, or other required open space that is
also available for public use, up to one additional housing unit may be added
to overall density, provided, however, that overall density does not increase
by more than fifteen percent (15%) beyond the number of units allowed.
      (3)   Modifications to Area and Height Regulations. Minimum lot area
requirements contained in given zoning districts are modified in a Cluster
Residential Subdivision to provide for required open space and to allow for
flexibility in design. The Planning Commission may modify the area and height
regulations contained in the applicable zoning district if appropriate to get
the promote the best design.
      (4)   Lot Area Requirements. Dwelling units are not required to be on
individual lots and there are no minimum lot sizes. However, when lots are
included in a development plan, such lots shall be of sufficient size and shape
to accommodate dwelling units in compliance with the spacing and yard
requirements defined herein.
      (5)   Minimum Yard Depths. Shall be determined by the Planning Commission
based on the type and height of the residences proposed, topography, existing
and proposed landscaping, and characteristics of adjacent development.
      (6)   Sewage Disposal and Water. Cluster Residential Subdivisions shall
be served by public sewage disposal and water facilities consistent with
applicable city regulations.
      (7)   Wetlands in Cluster Residential Subdivisions. Wetlands found within
a site proposed to be developed as an Cluster Residential Subdivision must
remain in a natural state and no off-site mitigation of wetlands shall be
permitted.
      (8)   Minimum Required Open Space. All Cluster Residential Subdivisions
shall incorporate not less than 50 percent of the total site’s acreage as
required common open space. This required open space shall be designed and
located to conserve significant natural features and historical and cultural
elements located on the site. In the case of phased developments, open space
shall be provided in a proportional manner with a developed area.
      (9)   Areas Not Considered Required Open Space. Areas that specifically
shall not be considered required open space include:
         (a)   Private roads and public road rights- of-way.
         (b)   Public or private parking areas, access ways, and driveways.
         (c)   Required setbacks between buildings, parking areas, and project
boundaries.
         (d)   Required setbacks between buildings and streets.
         (e)   Required minimum spacing between buildings and parking areas.
   (f)   Private yards.
         (g)   Land that is subject to preexisting conservation easements or
similar limitations on development.
   (B)   Use of Required Open Space. Areas designated for required open space
may be:
      (1)   Preserved in its natural state.
      (2)   Designed and intended for the use and/or enjoyment of residents (or
general public) of the proposed development.
      (3)   Utilized as a buffer area to separate a development from
surrounding properties.
      (4)   Utilized for farming when authorized in a conservation easement or
in an Association’s covenants and restrictions.
      (5)   Utilized as wet or dry storm water management ponds or basins.
These ponds or basin may be located partially or entirely within the required
open space. Easements shall be required to enable the maintenance of these
facilities
      (6)   Used as active recreation areas. These active recreation areas
shall be located in areas with the least impact on natural amenities and
wildlife habitats, of a useable size and shape for the intended purpose.
   (C)   Design and Location of Required Open Space. Land that is to be
designated as required open space shall be designed as a connected and
contiguous open space system and all residential properties shall have access
to this open space. 
   (D)   Reclamation of Disturbed Open Space.  Any areas to be designated as
required open space that is disturbed during construction or otherwise not
preserved in its natural state shall be landscaped with vegetation that is
compatible with the natural characteristics of the site.
   (E)   Future Subdivision and Development of Open Space. All required open
space shall be restricted from further subdivision or development by deed
restriction, conservation easement, or other agreement in a form acceptable to
the City of West Carrollton. Subject to permanent restrictions as set forth
above, required open space in a Cluster Residential Subdivision may be owned by
an Association, the City, a Land Trust or other organization recognized by West
Carrollton. Required open space may be held by the individual members of a
Condominium Association as tenants-in-common or may be held in common ownership
by a Homeowner’s Association, Community Association, or other similar legal
entity. The City’s legal advisor shall determine, based on documents submitted
with the development plan, that the Association’s bylaws or code of regulations
specifies the following requirements:
         (1)   Membership in the Association shall be mandatory for all
purchasers of lots in the development or units in the condominium.
      (2)   The Association shall be responsible for maintenance, control, and
insurance of all common areas, including required open space.
   (F)   Conservation Easements. With the permission of the City, the owner(s)
of the required open space may, in accordance with provisions of ORC § 5301.67
- .70, grant or transfer a conservation easement to any entity described in ORC
§ 5301.68, provided that the entity and the provisions of the conservation
easements are acceptable to the City of West Carrollton. When a deed
restriction is proposed as the method of restricting further subdivision of
land designated as open space, the City of West Carrollton shall be named as a
party to such deed restrictions with approval authority over any changes
thereto. The conveyance must contain appropriate provision for assignment of
the conservation easement to another entity authorized to hold conservation
easements under ORC § 5301.68, in the event that the original grantee becomes
unwilling or unable to ensure compliance with the provisions of the
conservation easement.
   (G)   Development Plan Submission Requirements. All proposed Cluster
Residential Subdivisions shall provide a site analysis and a development plan
in accordance with all requirements set forth in § 154.14.01. This site
analysis and development plan, together with any required application forms,
shall be transmitted to and reviewed by the Planning Commission in the manner
described herein.
   (H)   Amendments. After a Cluster Residential Subdivision has been approved,
adjustments, or rearrangements of buildings, parking areas, entrances, heights,
or yards may be requested. Changes, as defined herein, may be permitted with
approval by the Planning Commission in accordance with § 154.14.01.
§ 154.16.03 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Home occupations shall meet the following requirements:
   (A)   Not more than 25% of the floor area of the dwelling unit shall be used
in the conduct of the home occupation.
   (B)   No home occupation shall be permitted in any accessory building.
   (C)   No equipment or process shall be used which creates noise, vibration,
glare, fumes, odors, x-rays, radiation, smoke, heat, dust or electrical
interference detectable to the normal senses off the lot. In the case of
electrical interference, no equipment or process shall be used which creates
visual or audible interference in any radio or television receivers, or which
causes fluctuations in line voltage, off the premises.
   (D)   No traffic shall be generated by the operation of the home occupation
which is greater than traffic volumes normally expected in the neighborhood.
Specifically, the home occupation shall not cause more than three vehicles
(including vehicles used by customers, vendors or delivery services) to visit
the residence per day. The operation and parking of these vehicles shall not
interfere with traffic circulation.
   (E)   No non-residential alterations to the interior or exterior of the
residences shall be permitted to accommodate the home occupation.
   (F)   No explosive, toxic, combustible or flammable materials in quantities
greater than allowed in residences will be used or stored on the premises.
   (G)   The use of mechanical equipment, or the storage of supplies, is
limited to that which is compatible with a residential use.
   (H)   If the residential address is used in any advertisement of the home
occupation, the words "by appointment only" shall be included in the
advertisement.
   (I)   No outside storage of any kind shall be permitted in relation to the
home occupation, and only commodities produced on the premises may be sold on
the premises.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.179(O))
§ 154.16.04 [Deleted]
§ 154.16.05 RESOURCE AND MINERAL EXTRACTION.
   (A)   Resource and mineral extraction operations must meet the following
development standards:
      (1)   Excavation, washing, and stockpiling of extracted material shall
not be carried on closer than 50 feet to any property line, or such greater
distance as is deemed necessary for the protection of adjacent property, except
that this distance requirement may be reduced by the written consent of the
owner of abutting property, but in any such event, adequate lateral support
shall be provided for the abutting property.
      (2)   In the event that the site of the mining operation is adjacent to
the right-of-way of any public street or road, no part of such operation may
take place closer than 50 feet to the nearest line of such right-of-way.
      (3)   Any excavated area adjacent to the right-of-way of any public
street or road shall be back-filled for a distance of 150 feet from the right-
of-way line.
      (4)   Fencing or other suitable barrier, including acceptable plantings,
shall be erected and maintained around the entire site or portions thereof.
      (5)   All equipment and machinery shall be operated and maintained in
such manner as to minimize dust, noise, and vibration. Access roads shall be
maintained in a dust-free condition by surfacing or other treatment.
      (6)   Quarrying shall not be carried out closer than 300 feet to any
adjoining property line unless the written consent of such adjoining property
owner has first been obtained.
      (7)   An earthen mound sight and sound barrier of a minimum of eight feet
in height shall be provided to assure compatibility with adjoining land uses.
The barrier shall be suitably planted and maintained.
      (8)   Rehabilitation requirements. All mined-out areas shall, within a
reasonable length of time, be reclaimed and rehabilitated. Within six months
after completion of mining operations, the company shall provide the city with
a written plan indicating its intentions relative to equipment and structure
removal and the approximate date and time frame for reclamation and
rehabilitation of the mined-out area.
§ 154.16.06 SATELLITE DISH ANTENNAS.
   (A)   A permit is required before a dish antenna can be installed on any lot
within the city. The construction and installation of all dish antennas shall
conform to all applicable building code and electrical code regulations and
requirements.
   (B)   The total height of a dish antenna shall not exceed 15 feet. This
height requirement shall apply to both ground-mounted and roof-mounted dish
antennas. The height shall be measured from the highest point of the dish
antenna, when positioned for operation, vertically downward to the nearest
point of support. The point of support for all roof-mounted dish antennas shall
not extend above the roof line by which it is supported. In all cases where the
height requirements of the Zoning Code and the building code conflict, the more
restrictive requirement shall be used.
   (C)   The diameter of a dish antenna shall not exceed 12 feet.
   (D)   To be as visually unintrusive as possible, dish antennas shall be
restricted to those of a mesh-type construction in all residential (R) zoning
districts.
   (E)   Dish antennas over four feet in diameter shall not be permitted to be
located on the roof of any structure in any R or O-R zoning district.
   (F)   Only one dish antenna shall be permitted on a lot in any LD, R, O-R,
O, or B-1 zoning district.
   (G)   Dish antennas 18 inches or less in diameter are exempt from these
regulations.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.179(M)(5))
§ 154.16.07 SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
   (A)   No sexually-oriented business shall be established within five hundred
feet of:
      (1)   Any Residential District or individual residence;
      (2)   Any public library, educational institution, public park or
recreational facility, church or place of worship, child day care facility,
playground, or swimming pool;
      (3)   Any planned unit or planned cluster development utilized for
residential purposes.
   (B)   No sexually-oriented business shall be established within one thousand
feet of any other sexually- oriented business.
   (C)   For the purpose of this Section, measurement shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to the intervening structures or objects, from
the nearest portion of the building or structure used as the part of the
premises where a sexually-oriented business is conducted, to the nearest
property line of the premises of a use listed in section A above. Presence of a
municipal, county, or other political subdivision boundary shall be irrelevant
for purposes of calculating and applying the distance requirements of this
Section.
   (D)   Prohibited Public Display. No advertisements, displays or other
promotional materials shall be shown, distributed or exhibited so as to be
visible to the public from pedestrian sidewalks or walkways, or from other
public or semi-public areas.
   (E)   Public View to Be Prevented. All building openings, entries, windows,
and doors of sexually-oriented business facilities shall be located, covered,
or serviced in such a manner as to prevent a view into the interior from any
public or semi-public areas, sidewalk or street. For new construction, the
building shall be oriented so as to minimize any possibility of viewing the
interior from any public or semi-public areas.
   (F)   External Audio and Visual Impact. No screens, loudspeakers, or sound
equipment shall be used for adult motion picture theaters (enclosed or drive-
in) or any other adult entertainment facility that can be seen or discerned by
the general public from public or semi-public areas.
HISTORY: (Newly Proposed; Formerly § 154.181(C)(1)(m))
§ 154.16.08 TEMPORARY USES.
   Temporary uses are permitted in each zoning district subject to the
applicable regulations of the district in which the use is permitted. A zoning
or occupancy certificate shall be obtained pursuant to § 154.05.07. The
following temporary uses are permitted, subject to the limitations indicated:
   (A)   Christmas tree sales in the B-2 District for a period not to exceed 60
days.
   (B)   Contractor's office, trailer, and equipment shed (containing no
sleeping or cooking accommodations) accessory to a construction project, to
continue only during the duration of the project.
   (C)   Real estate offices (containing no sleeping or cooking accommodations
unless located in a model dwelling unit) incidental to a new housing
development, to continue only until the sale or lease of all dwelling units.
   (D)   Seasonal garden center retail outlets located in any B-2 District for
a period not to exceed 90 consecutive days in any 180-day period, subject to
the following conditions:
      (1)   Retail sales only, limited to plants in containers and prepackaged
garden supplies. No storage or sale of bulk products is permitted.
      (2)   No portion of the display or any temporary structure shall be
located within ten feet of any property line or public right-of-way.
      (3)   No required off-street parking space or loading area shall be
utilized for display, storage or dispensing.
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.179(N))
   (E)   Seasonal sale of farm produce, including produce stands and farm
markets, in the following districts: Agricultural (A), Commercial (B), City
Center (CC), Manufacturing (M), and Olde Downtown (OD), to continue for not
more than five consecutive months per year and meeting the following
requirements:
      (1)   There shall be not more than one such use per lot or lots under
common ownership.
      (2)   Structures related to the use shall meet all applicable setback
requirements of the district in which they are located. Structures incidental
to such sale on property used for agricultural pur poses need not comply with
the applicable front yard requirements if the structures are removed or moved
back of the required front yard at the end of the season during which they are
used.
      (3)   Adequate off-street parking and safe vehicular and pedestrian
access shall be provided for the use. When the use is located within a parking
area serving a separate principal use on the same property, the minimum number
of parking and loading spaces required by § 154.12.01 for the principal use
shall be maintained.
      (4)   Debris and trash generated by the use shall be routinely collected.
The city reserves the right to require more frequent collection as necessary.
      (5)   One temporary sign per public street frontage on the lot or lots
under common ownership is permitted, not to exceed 16 square feet in area and
meeting the requirements for temporary signs as outlined in Chapter 153, Signs.
      (6)   All portions of the use shall be maintained in a clean, safe and
sanitary condition at all times during operation.
      (7)   Compliance with all applicable licensing requirements of the City
of West Carrollton and the Montgomery County Combined General Health District.
      (8)   The failure to comply with any of these requirements, as determined
by the Zoning Enforcement Officer, shall result in denial of a permit or
suspension of operation during that season. Upon termination of the operation,
all remaining products, materials and displays shall be immediately removed and
the site restored to its prior condition.
(Ord. 3460, passed 11-9-10)
   (F)   An open-air carnival or tent circus, but only in a B-2, M-1, or M-
2 District, and then only for a period that shall not exceed three days.
   (G)   Festivals sponsored by nonprofit organizations in any district for a
period not to exceed three days. Such use need not comply with the front yard
requirements. However, structures or equipment which might block the view of
operators of motor vehicles on the public streets shall not be located within
30 feet of the intersection of the curb line of any two streets.
   (H)   Promotional activities of retail merchants, located in any business
district, involving the display of goods and merchandise may be conducted
outside of enclosed buildings for a period of not more than 14 days in any
three-month period. Goods and merchandise that will be used in the promotional
activity and are also for sale within the building may be displayed in the area
immediately adjacent to the building subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   No portion of the display or any temporary structure shall be on
located within ten feet of any property line or public right-of-way.
      (2)   No required off-street parking space or loading area shall be
utilized for such display, storage, or dispensing.
      (3)   No food or drink shall be dispensed outside the building except in
accordance with standards and prior written approval of the Montgomery County
Combined General Health District.
   (I)   Tents in any district for permitted uses of that district provided
such use is not conducted within a tent for a period of not more than 14
consecutive days in any 90-day period.
   (J)   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Former subsection (J) was repealed by Ordinance 3475,
passed April 12, 2011.)
HISTORY: (Formerly § 154.179(N))
§ 154.16.09 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   Wireless Telecommunications Facilities criteria are in place to minimize
adverse health, safety, public welfare or visual impact through buffering,
siting design and construction, and the reduction of the need for new or
redundant wireless telecommunications facilities.
   (A)   General Requirements. The following requirements apply to all wireless
telecommunications facilities regardless of the zoning district in which they
are located.
      (1)   Design and Construction. Towers must be designed and certified by
an engineer registered in the State of Ohio to be structurally sound and, at a
minimum, in conformance with the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
      (2)   Maximum Height. The maximum height of the wireless
telecommunications facility shall be the minimum height necessary to provide
service.
      (3)   Resource Protection Standards.  The location of a tower, equipment
shelter and antenna support structure shall comply with all natural resource
protection standards established for the protection of flood plains, wetlands
and steep slopes as provided for in the Zoning, Flood Damage Prevention,
Stormwater Control, Subdivision and other development codes.
      (4)   Security. All elements of a wireless telecommunication facility,
either completely or individually, shall be secured against unauthorizedaccess
by the public. Safety forces of the city and co-locators shall have reasonable
access. "No Trespassing" signs shall be posted around the wireless
telecommunications facility with a telephone number of whom to contact in the
event of emergency. No fence shall be required on top of a building or other
structure if access to the roof or top of the structure is secure.
      (5)   Landscaping. Existing vegetation (trees and shrubs) shall be
preserved to the greatest extent possible. Buffer plantings shall be located
around the perimeter of any security fence. In the alternative, an evergreen
screen may be planted around the perimeter of the property.
      (6)   Visibility, Lighting, and Advertising. The tower shall be a non-
contrasting gray or similar color minimizing its visibility, unless required by
the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) or Federal Aviation Administration
(FAA). All appurtenances shall be aesthetically and architecturally compatible
with the surrounding environment by the means of camouflage. No tower shall be
artificially lit except as required by the Federal Aviation Administration
(FAA). No advertising shall be permitted anywhere on the wireless
telecommunication's facility.
      (7)   Co-location Requirements.
         (a)   Public Property.
            (i)   The city shall undertake an identification of publicly-owned
properties that the city determines are suitable for such use. The city shall
regularly update such identification and make the results of such
identification available to the public.
            (ii)   Persons locating wireless telecommunications facilities upon
such identified publicly-owned properties shall be exempted from the
requirements herein regarding presentation of proof that co-locations are not
available. However, persons locating wireless telecommunications facilities on
publicly owned properties shall continue to be subject to the requirements
contained in § 154.16.08(A).
            (iii)   In addition, persons locating wireless telecommunications
facilities on publicly-owned properties identified by the city to be suitable
for such purposes shall be exempt from the requirements of § 154.16.08 (B) and
(C).
         (b)   Newly Constructed Wireless Telecommunication Towers.
            (i)   Prior to the construction of a new telecommunications tower,
it must be proven that it is not feasible to co-locate on an existing tower.
Owners of Wireless Tower Facilities must allow for potential co-location of
additional wireless telecommunication facilities by other providers on the
applicant's structure or within the same site location.
            (ii)   No new tower shall be constructed in the city unless such
tower is capable of accommodating at least three additional wireless
telecommunications facility owned by another person, if height is sufficient
for coverage.
      (8)   Abandonment of Towers.
         (a)   All providers utilizing towers shall present a report to the
Planning and Economic Development Director notifying them of any tower facility
located in the municipality whose use will be discontinued and the date this
use will cease. If at any time the use of the facility is discontinued for 180
days the Planning and Economic Development Director may declare the facility
abandoned. The facility's owner/operator will receive written notice from the
Planning and Economic Development Director and be instructed to either
reactivate the facility's use within 180 days, or dismantle and remove the
facility. If reactivation or dismantling does not occur, the municipality will
remove or will contract to have removed the facility as a public nuisance and
assess the owner/operator the Costs.
         (b)   The city shall provide the tower owner with the right to a
public hearing before the Board of Zoning Appeals as with any appeal of an
administrative zoning order. All interested parties shall be allowed an
opportunity to be heard at the public hearing.
         (c)   After a public hearing is held, the Board of Zoning Appeals may
order the acquisition or demolition of the tower. The city may require licensee
to pay for all expenses necessary to acquire or demolish the tower.
      (9)   Variances and Special Exceptions. Any request to deviate from any
of the requirements of this section shall require variance approval in
conformance with the procedures set forth in Article 154.06.01 of the Zoning
Code.
   (B)   Wireless Telecommunication Facilities in Residential Districts.
Wireless telecommunication facilities that include towers are not permitted in
L-D, R, or O-R districts except on any property with a public institutional use
(e.g. park, library, government, school or utility). However, it must be proven
that it is not technically feasible to locate in a more appropriate
nonresidential zone. A wireless telecommunications facility may be located in a
residential district subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Combined with a Nonresidential Use. An antenna may be attached to a
nonresidential building or a structure that is a permitted use in the district;
including, but not limited to, a church, municipal or government building or
facility, agricultural building, and a building or structure owned by a
utility. The following conditions shall be met:
         (a)   Maximum height: 15 feet, measured from the highest point of the
antenna, vertically downward to the highest point of the existing structure.
         (b)   If the applicant proposed to locate the telecommunication
equipment in a separate equipment shelter, the equipment shelter shall comply
with accessory building regulations and the following:
            1.   A buffer yard shall be planted in accordance with § 154.13.01
(A).
            2.   Vehicular access to the equipment shelter shall not interfere
with the parking or vehicular circulation on the site of the principal use.
      (2)   Located on a Nonresidential Use Property. A tower to support an
antenna may be constructed on a property with a nonresidential use that is a
permitted use within the district, including but not limited to a church,
hospital, school, municipal or government building, facility, or structure,
agricultural use and utility use, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   Minimum yard requirements:
            1.   The tower shall be setback from any property line abutting a
residential structure by 200 feet.
            2.   Equipment shelter: same as for principally permitted
structures.
         (b)   Maximum height:
            1.   Tower: 200 feet, including the antenna.
            2.   Equipment shelter: same as the maximum height in the relevant
zoning district.
         (c)   Vehicular access to the tower and equipment shelter shall,
whenever feasible, be provided along the circulation driveways of the existing
use.
      (3)   Located on a Residential Building. An antenna for a wireless
telecommunications facility may be attached to a mid-rise or high-rise
apartment building subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   Maximum height: 15 feet, measured from the highest point of the
antenna, vertically downward to the highest point of the existing structure.
         (b)   If the applicant proposes to locate the telecommunications
equipment in a separate equipment shelter (not located in, or attached to, the
building), the equipment shelter shall comply with accessory building
regulations and with the following:
            1.   A buffer yard shall be planted in accordance with § 154.16.09
(A)(5).
            2.   Vehicular access to the equipment shelter shall, if at all
possible, use the existing circulation system.
      (4)   Located in Open Space. A wireless telecommunications facility is
permitted on land that has been established as permanent open space, or a park
subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   The open space shall be owned by the municipality, county or
state government, a homeowners association, charitable organization, or a
private, non-profit association, charitable organization, or a private, non-
profit conservation organization.
         (b)   Maximum height:
            1.   Tower: 200 feet, including the antenna.
            2.   Equipment shelter: same as the maximum height in the relevant
zoning district.
         (c)   The tower shall be setback from any residential property line
200 feet.
      (5)   Equipment Shelters. Underground equipment shelters are required in
residential districts unless the design is deemed compatible by the reviewing
authority.
   (F)   Wireless Telecommunication Facilities in Non-residential Districts.
Wireless telecommunication facilities located in an O, B-1, B-2, Olde Downtown,
M-1 or M-2 District shall be subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Sole Use on a Lot. A wireless telecommunications facility is
permitted as a sole use on a lot subject to the following requirements:
         (a)   Minimum lot size: two acres.
         (b)   Minimum yard requirements:
            1.   Tower: The minimum distance to any residential use or district
lot line shall be 200 feet, otherwise same as for principally permitted
structures.
            2.   Equipment shelter: Same as for principally permitted
structures.
         (c)   Maximum height:
            1.   Tower: 200 feet, including any antenna.
            2.   Equipment shelter: same as for principally permitted
structures.
      (2)   Combined with Another Use. A wireless telecommunications facility
is permitted on a property with an existing use subject to the following
requirements:
         (a)   The existing or future use on the property may be any permitted
use in the district or any lawful nonconforming use, and need not be affiliated
with the wireless telecommunications provider. The wireless telecommunications
facility will not be considered an addition to the structure or value of a
nonconforming use.
         (b)   Minimum yard requirements:
            1.   Tower: the minimum distance to any residential use or district
lot line shall be 200 feet, otherwise the minimum distance is the same as for
principally permitted structures.
            2.   Equipment shelter: same as for accessory structures.
         (c)   Maximum height:
            1.   Tower: 200 feet, including any antenna.
            2.   Equipment shelter: Same as for principally permitted
structures.
         (d)   Access. The service access to the equipment shelter shall be
provided along the circulation of the existing use whenever feasible.
      (3)   Combined with an Existing Structure. Where possible, an antenna for
a wireless telecommunications facility shall be attached to an existing
structure or building subject to the following requirements:
         (a)   Maximum height: 15 feet, measured from the highest point of the
antenna, vertically downward to the highest point of the existing structure.
         (b)   If the applicant proposes to locate the telecommunications
equipment in a separate equipment shelter not located on or attached to the
building, the equipment shelter shall comply with the following:
            1.   Shall comply with the requirements for an accessory building.
            2.   Shall be located to the rear of the primary building or
structure.
            3.   Vehicular access to the shelter shall not interfere with any
required parking or vehicular circulation on the site for the principal use.
HISTORY: (Former § 154.186; Ord. 3063, passed 9-23-97)
§ 154.16.10 GARAGE SALES.
   (A)   Definition. Any general casual sale, open to the public and conducted
on residential premises for the purpose of disposing of miscellaneous primarily
used personal property. As used in this section, this definition shall include
but is not limited to any sale entitled "garage sale", "patio sale", "yard
sale", "carport sale", "basement sale", "porch sale", "driveway sale", or
"rummage sale".
   (B)   Registration Required. Any person planning to conduct a garage sale in
the city shall contact the City of West Carrollton Planning and Building
Department prior to the sale and furnish the following information:
      (1)   The name and phone number of the person conducting the sale, who
shall be a resident of the city;
      (2)   The address of the premises where the sale is to be conducted;
      (3)   The dates and hours of duration of the sale;
      (4)   The dates of any garage sales held on the property within the
current calendar year; and
      (5)   Any additional information deemed necessary by the Planning and
Building Department.
   (C)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No garage sale shall be conducted on the same property more than
two times within a calendar year, with each sale not to exceed 72 hours. Garage
sales occurring more frequently are considered as engaging in a retail sales
business in a residential zone, which is prohibited.
      (2)   No garage sale shall be conducted by a person who does not own or
lease the premises on which the sale is conducted.
      (3)   No garage sale shall be conducted prior to 8:00 a.m. or after dusk.
      (4)   No garage sale shall offer for sale primarily a single commodity,
nor primarily new merchandise or food items.
      (5)   No items for sale, signs, or other materials relating to the sale
shall remain in public view after dusk on the last day of the sale.
      (6)   No fee or other charge shall be imposed upon members of the public
attending any garage sale.
   (D)   Signs. Temporary signage promoting a garage sale shall meet all
requirements of Chapter 153, Signs.
   (E)   Block Garage Sales. By submitting the unanimous written consent of all
involved property owners on a residential block, a request may be made to the
City of West Carrollton for permission to hold a "block garage sale". Each
resident participating in such sale shall be included in the information
required in paragraph (B) of this section. Block garage sales shall meet all
requirements of this section.
   (F)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Participation in the City of West Carrollton's annual Community
Garage Sale Day(s) shall not be counted toward the maximum number of sales
permitted in paragraph (C)(1).
      (2)   Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (C)(1), one
additional sale per property may be held under each of the following
circumstances:
         i.   If it is made necessary through the estate or guardian of a
resident of the premises, commonly known as an "estate sale".
         ii.   If the resident is relocating from the premises, commonly known
as a "moving sale".
      (3)   It is not the intent of this section to prohibit sales by
nonconforming businesses located in residential zoning districts.
   (G)   Penalty. Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the
provisions of this chapter is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined
not more than twenty-five dollars ($25) for a first offense, not more than
fifty dollars ($50) for a second offense, and not more than one hundred dollars
($100.00) for a third and each subsequent offense. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed each day during or on which a violation or noncompliance
occurs or continues. (Ord. 3449. Passed 5-11-10.)
§ 154.16.11 MOBILE FOOD VENDORS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purposes of this section, a MOBILE FOOD VENDOR
shall be defined as any person who sells, offers for sale, or distributes free
of charge, food or beverages to the public from any unit (vehicle, trailer,
cart, wagon, or similar use) which is designed to be readily moveable and which
changes location from time to time. A MOBILE FOOD VENDOR unit shall not include
tents or similar portable structures. The food may be cooked, wrapped,
packaged, processed and/or portioned for service, sale, or distribution in the
mobile food vendor unit. The sale of products other than food or beverages is
prohibited.
   (B)   Mobile Food Vendor License Required.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, no person shall
engage in the business of operating a mobile food vendor unit within the city
without a current and valid mobile food vendor license issued pursuant to this
section.
      (2)   Any person desiring to operate a mobile food vendor unit within the
city shall make a written application for a mobile food vendor license to the
city. The application for such license shall include the following:
         (a)   A fully completed mobile food vendor license application on form
(s) provided by the city.
         (b)   Written permission of the property owner(s) consenting to the
mobile food vendor operation on any and all properties on which the unit will
operate, if applicable.
         (c)   A site plan showing any and all properties on which the unit
will operate for sales purposes, with the proposed location and dimensions of
the mobile food vendor unit relative to buildings, parking and loading areas,
streets and driveway approaches, refuse containers, and any other site
information the city may require.
         (d)   Color photographs of all sides of the mobile food vendor unit
and any signage to be used in operation of the business.
         (e)   A signed indemnification statement and copy of liability
insurance for the business in an amount not less than $1,000,000, naming the
City of West Carrollton as an additional insured, as further described below.
         (f)   A valid copy of all licenses or permits required by the County
of Montgomery, the State of Ohio, and any subsidiary enforcement divisions
thereof, including but not limited to the Public Health - Dayton & Montgomery
County and the Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
         (g)   Proof of registration with the city's income tax division if
operating within the city for more than 20 days in a calendar year.
         (h)   Any additional information which shows that the proposed
operation will satisfy the requirements of this section and all applicable
laws.
         (i)   A signed statement that the vendor will hold harmless the city
and its officers and employees, and shall indemnify the city, its officers and
employees for any claims for damage to property or injury to persons which may
be occasioned by any activity earned on under the terms of the mobile food
vendor license. The mobile food vendor shall furnish and maintain such public
commercial general liability insurance, including products liability, property
damage, bodily injury and personal and advertising injury against claims for
injuries to persons or damages to property which may arise from or in
connection with the operations under the mobile food vendor license or in
connection therewith. Such insurance shall be issued by an insurance company
licensed to do business in Ohio and shall provide coverage of not less than
$1,000,000 per occurrence. The policy shall cover, or be endorsed to cover, the
City of West Carrollton, its officials, employees and volunteers as additional
insureds. Such coverage shall be primary and non-contributing as respects the
additional insureds. The policy shall further provide that it may not be
cancelled except upon 30 days written notice served upon the City Manager of
the city. The mobile food vendor shall provide a certificate of insurance
evidencing compliance with the specifications herein prior to commencing
activities pursuant to this license. A mobile food vendor license issued
pursuant to the provisions of this section shall be invalid at any time the
insurance required herein is not maintained and evidence of continuing coverage
is not filed with the City of West Carrollton.
      (3)   A mobile food vendor license shall be issued upon full completion
of the application and determination by the city that all requirements of this
section are met. If a complete application for a mobile food vendor license is
not approved, the city shall notify the applicant of the determination in
writing including any reason(s) for the decision. No license shall be issued to
an applicant who has a conviction within the last ten years for a crime of
violence, a crime involving moral turpitude, a crime involving drug
convictions, or a crime involving sex offenses.
      (4)   The mobile food vendor license shall be valid for a period of one
year or less and shall expire on December 31 of the calendar year in which it
was issued, regardless of when during the year such license was issued.
      (5)   The mobile food vendor license is valid for one mobile food vendor
unit only, which shall be that unit identified in the license application. The
mobile food vendor license is valid only for the property or properties
identified in the license application. The license must be prominently
displayed on the mobile food vendor unit along with any other required
licenses, and shall be available for inspection upon request.
      (6)   The mobile food vendor license is non-transferable and may be used
only by the individual, partners, or entities to whom the license was granted.
      (7)   A mobile food vendor unit shall comply with all applicable federal,
state, and local fire safety requirements, as determined by an inspection by
the West Carrollton Fire Department prior to issuance of a license, and at any
other time deemed necessary to address life safety concerns.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Mobile food vendors operating as part of a special event which is
open to the general public, lasts not more than four consecutive days, and has
received a temporary use permit shall not require a separate mobile food vendor
license. However, such mobile food vendors shall be subject to the provisions
of this section as determined by the city to be applicable, and may operate
only during the hours of the special event. In no case shall multiple temporary
use permits for such events on the same property total more than 30 days within
a 90 day period. The temporary use permit fee shall be waived for any public,
school, or charitable event.
      (2)   The requirements of this section do not apply to:
         (a)   A mobile food vendor unit operating on the same premises as a
restaurant under the same ownership. Such units shall comply with all other
requirements of the City of West Carrollton Codified Ordinances.
         (b)   Ice cream peddlers as regulated by
Chapter 111 of the City of West Carrollton Codified Ordinances.
         (c)   Temporary sales of seasonal produce as regulated by §
154.16.08(E).
         (d)   One or more mobile food vendor units operating on a particular
property at the request of and with the written permission of the property
owner or the business located on the property, which limits the sale of its
food to serve only on-site employees of such business and is not open for sales
to the general public. Provided, however, such mobile food vendor unit shall be
subject to an inspection by the City of West Carrollton Fire Department and
does not operate for more than three hours each day.
   (D)   License Fee. Upon issuance of the mobile food vendor license and as
may be renewed thereafter, a non-refundable mobile food vendor license fee
shall be due and payable as set forth in
Chapter 37 of the City of West Carrollton Code of Ordinances. This fee is in
addition to fees as may be required by other governing jurisdictions.
   (E)   Location.
      (1)   A mobile food vendor unit may be permitted to operate on any
property on which a non-residential principal use is located, subject to the
requirements of this section. A mobile food vendor is considered to be a
temporary use, and shall not be permitted as a principal use on a property.
      (2)   A mobile food vendor may be permitted to operate within the public
right-of-way in all non-residential or mixed-use zoning districts, subject to
the requirements of this section and provided:
         (a)   The mobile food vendor unit is parked in a legally-designated
on-street parking space, except that no mobile food vendor unit shall park in
angled parking spaces in the right-of-way.
         (b)   The mobile food vendor unit is parked in the same direction as
traffic with no more than 12 inches between the curb face or edge of pavement
and the unit, and with the service window of the unit facing the curb. All
items shall be sold, offered for sale, or dispensed only from the curb side of
a mobile food vendor unit.
         (c)   A mobile food vendor unit located in the public right-of-way
shall not remain stationary in one location for longer than two hours. After
remaining stationary in one location for up to two hours, the mobile food
vendor unit shall be moved to a location at least 100 yards from the previous
location.
         (d)   Hazard lights are operated continuously at all times when a
mobile food vendor unit is parked or stopped so as to be clearly visible to
drivers of other vehicles approaching such vehicle from the front or rear.
         (e)   The mobile food vendor unit is not operating for sales purposes
in a public alley, unless specifically authorized by the city.
         (f)   The mobile food vendor unit is not left unattended in the public
right-of-way. The city shall consider any unattended mobile food vendor unit
located in the public right-of-way as an illegally-parked vehicle and may
remove said unit pursuant to
Chapter 73 of the City of West Carrollton Codified Ordinances.
      (3)   Notwithstanding divisions (E)(1) and (E)(2) of this section, no
mobile food vendor unit shall be located:
         (a)   Within 100 feet of property containing a restaurant located in
an enclosed building, unless operated by the restaurant owner or written
permission by the restaurant or property owner is provided. However, this
restriction does not prevent approval of any new restaurant located in an
enclosed building within 100 feet of any pre-existing approved mobile food
vendor location. In that event, the mobile food vendor may continue to operate
at the pre-approved location until the expiration of the license term. Upon
renewal of the license, the mobile food vendor must then relocate to meet the
requirements of this section.
         (b)   On property used exclusively for single-family residential
purposes, irrespective of its zoning classification.
         (c)   On any unpaved surface.
         (d)   Closer than five feet to any property line, unless written
permission is provided by the abutting property owner.
         (e)   Proximate to any land owned by a public or private school,
unless written permission has been granted by the school.
         (f)   Proximate to any property containing a festival, special or
civic event that is permitted or sanctioned by the city, unless the mobile food
vendor is an authorized participant in such event.
         (g)   Within parking spaces which are required to meet the minimum
parking requirements for the property.
   (F)   Operating Requirements. Mobile food vendors shall meet the following
requirements:
      (1)   A mobile food vendor may operate for sales purposes between the
hours of 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m.
      (2)   A mobile food vendor unit located outside of the public right-of-
way shall not remain stationary in one location for longer than six hours.
After remaining stationary in one location for up to six hours, the mobile food
vendor unit shall be moved to a location at least 100 yards from the previous
location.
      (3)   A mobile food vendor unit shall not be left unattended within
public view at any time.
      (4)   A mobile food vendor unit shall not obstruct a public way, impair
the movement of pedestrians or vehicles, impair the clear view of traffic from
any direction, or pose a hazard to public safety.
      (5)   A mobile food vendor unit shall not be in such a deteriorated
physical condition as to adversely affect the character, appearance, image, or
economic value of surrounding property.
      (6)   No mobile food vendor shall, for the purposes of attracting
attention to its operation, shout or use any outside sound amplifying
equipment, music, or noisemakers such as bells, horns, or whistles. Sound
emanating from a mobile food vendor unit shall be in compliance with the
requirements of § 138.08, Disturbing the Peace, of the City of West Carrollton
Code of Ordinances.
      (7)   A mobile food vendor unit shall not remain attached to any vehicle
used to haul the unit. Such hauling vehicle shall be detached from the unit and
parked in a lawful parking space separate from the unit.
      (8)   The mobile food vendor shall provide at least one trash receptacle
and shall properly remove all waste and trash generated by the operation at
least once per day and as needed to maintain cleanliness.
      (9)   Mobile food vendor signage is permitted as professionally applied
within the outlines of the unit. One sandwich board not exceeding six square
feet per sign face and three feet in height is permitted per public street
frontage, but may not be placed in the public right-of-way, on a public
sidewalk, or in a designated parking space.
      (10)   Conduct of the mobile food vendor business shall not create a
public nuisance or constitute a danger to the public health, safety, or
welfare.
   (G)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The city may deny, revoke, suspend, or not renew a mobile food
vendor license issued under the provisions of this section for any of the
following reasons:
         (a)   The licensee is determined by the city to be guilty of any fraud
or misrepresentation in connection with the submitted mobile food vendor
license application;
         (b)   The licensee is determined by the city to be guilty of any
fraud, misrepresentation, or unlawful act in connection with the business
activities for which a mobile food vendor license was issued;
         (c)   The licensed mobile food vendor business is conducted in such a
manner as to create a public nuisance or to constitute a danger to the public
health, safety, or welfare;
         (d)   Conviction of the licensee within the last ten years for a crime
of violence, a crime involving moral turpitude, a crime involving drug
convictions, or a crime involving sex offenses;
         (e)   The licensee is found by the city to be a person who constitutes
a clear and present danger to the residents of the city;
         (f)   The licensee violates any provision of this section;
         (g)   The licensee is delinquent in financial obligations to the city;
         (h)   The licensee fails to maintain valid permits or licenses from
the County of Montgomery, the State of Ohio, and any enforcement divisions
thereof;
         (i)   For any good cause shown.
      (2)   When good cause has been demonstrated to deny, revoke, suspend, or
not renew a mobile food vendor license, the city shall issue an order which
shall become effective immediately upon service of a written notice to the
licensee. Such notice shall specify the reason for denial, revocation,
suspension, or non-renewal and may provide for conditions upon which the
license may be approved or reinstated, upon compliance with said conditions.
Should no conditions be given for the possible approval or reinstatement of the
license, the order shall constitute a denial or revocation of the license.
      (3)   The city may allow a mobile food vendor to reapply for a mobile
food vendor license after 12 months from the date of denial, revocation,
suspension, or non-renewal. The mobile food vendor shall correct all
circumstances that led to the violations, and shall pay an additional fee in
the amount of $500 to offset the city's costs of compliance measures, necessary
inspections, and to ensure the circumstances that led to the revocation have
been corrected.
   (H)   Penalty. Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of
an unclassified misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $1,000 for each
offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues.
   (I)   Appeal. Any person aggrieved by any administrative decision pursuant
to this section may submit an appeal of said decision in accordance with the
provisions of §
154.05.06 of the City of West Carrollton Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 3679, passed 8-25-20)
§ 154.16.12 HOOKAH BARS.
   (A)    Purpose.   The purpose of these regulations is to differentiate
hookah bars from smoking establishments, retail tobacco stores, and general
retail sales due to their inherent differences in nature, function, and effect;
and to establish minimum standards for the operation of hookah bars in order to
minimize adverse effects on surrounding property and ensure the goals of the
2009 West Carrollton Comprehensive Plan to maintain and enhance the community's
image and economic vitality are met.
   (B)    Applicability.   These regulations shall apply to all hookah bars as
defined in this chapter.
   (C)    Requirements.
      (1)   Location.  A hookah bar shall not be permitted to operate on
property abutting any property containing a conforming single-family residence,
nor within a five hundred (500) foot radius, as measured by a straight line
from wall to wall, of any of the following:
         (a)   Any other hookah bar or smoking establishment.
         (b)   Any public or private school or day care facility.
         (c)   Any public park or recreation facility.
         (d)   Any religious institution.
         (e)   Any sexually-oriented business, tattoo or body piercing shop,
gun shop, or pawn shop.
      (2)   Hours of operation. A hookah bar shall not be permitted to operate
between the hours of midnight and 7:00 a.m.
      (3)   Minors prohibited. No person under eighteen (18) years of age shall
be permitted to enter, work at, or patronize a hookah bar.
      (4)   Alcoholic beverages prohibited. The sale and/or consumption of
alcoholic beverages shall not be permitted at any hookah bar.
      (5)   Intoxicated persons prohibited. Any person obviously under the
influence of any intoxicating drug or beverage shall not be permitted to enter
or patronize a hookah bar.
      (6)   Outdoor activity prohibited. Outdoor activity related to a hookah
bar shall not be permitted.
      (7)   Loitering prohibited. The owner or operator of a hookah bar shall
not permit loitering by persons outside the hookah bar.
      (8)   Ventilation system required. A hookah bar shall provide adequate
ventilation for smoke in accordance with all city, state, and federal laws. The
ventilation shall also ensure that smoke from the hookah bar is incapable of
migrating into any other portion of the building hosting the hookah bar, or
into any other building in the vicinity of the hookah bar.
      (9)   Lighting and visibility. No window coverings or window tinting
shall be permitted which prevents visibility of the interior of a hookah bar
from outside the premises during operating hours. The interior of a hookah bar
shall be maintained with adequate illumination to make the conduct of patrons
within the premises readily discernible to person with normal visual acuity.
      (10)   Parking. Parking for a hookah bar shall be provided as required
for "Taverns, cocktail lounges" in Zoning Code Section
154.12.01, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements.
      (11)   Annual license.  
         (a)   A person or entity seeking to own or operate a hookah bar within
the City must receive a license, to be issued and renewed annually by the Chief
of Police. The Chief of Police shall review each application, conduct any
additional investigation which is deemed reasonable in assessing each
application, and maintain a record of any person or entity who has received
such a license.
         (b)   Based on the findings of the investigation, the Chief of Police
may impose additional conditions upon the hookah bar's operation which in the
discretion of the Chief of Police are necessary to ensure compatibility with
other uses in the vicinity and to ensure the public health, safety, and
welfare.
         (c)   The Chief of Police may deny an application for a hookah bar
license for any of the following reasons: the applicant has been convicted of a
felony; the applicant is under the age of twenty-one (21) years; the applicant
has made a false statement in the application for a license; the application on
its face indicates that the proposed hookah bar cannot be operated in
accordance with the requirements of this section.
         (d)   A hookah bar license may be revoked for any of the following
reasons: the owner or operator of the hookah bar violates any requirement of
this section; the owner or operator of the hookah bar is convicted of a felony;
the hookah bar is not in compliance with one or more of the conditions of its
license.
         (e)   Notwithstanding this license requirement and any additional
conditions imposed by the Chief of Police, a hookah bar shall also obtain all
other approvals and permits required by Title XV: Land Usage of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of West Carrollton.
         (f)   A fee for this license may be charged as provided in
Chapter 37: General Fee Schedule.
      (12)   Compliance with state and federal laws. A hookah bar shall be in
compliance with all state laws pertaining to smoking in a place of employment
or in a public place, including but not limited to Ohio R.C. Chapter 3794:
Smoking Ban, as well as all state and federal laws pertaining to the sale or
furnishing of tobacco products to minors.
(Ord. 3567. Passed 8-25-15.)
§ 154.16.13 ALTERNATIVE FINANCIAL SERVICES PROVIDERS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of these regulations is to establish minimum
standards for the operation of alternative financial services providers to
ensure security and compatibility with surrounding uses, to prevent an
overconcentration and clustering of these businesses that may have an adverse
effect on the city's appearance and property values, and to ensure the goals of
the 2009 West Carrollton Comprehensive Plan to maintain and enhance the
community's image and economic vitality are met.
   (B)   Applicability. These regulations shall apply to all alternative
financial services providers as defined in §
154.02.01 currently operating within the city or seeking to locate or relocate
within the city on or after the effective date of this section.
   (C)   Requirements. Alternative financial services providers shall be
considered a conditional use in the B-2 General Commercial District as provided
in §
154.10.423. In order to approve a conditional use application, the Planning
Commission must determine that an alternative financial service provider meets
all the requirements of §
154.07.01, Conditional Use Regulations, as well as all the requirements set
forth below.
      (1)   Location. Alternative financial services providers shall not be
permitted to operate in the following locations, as measured on a straight line
from the nearest point of the outside walls of the building containing the
alternative financial services provider to the nearest property line of the
following uses:
         (a)   Within 1,500 feet of any other alternative financial services
provider.
         (b)   Within 1,000 feet of any sexually-oriented business, tattoo or
body piercing shop, store which sells alcoholic beverages for off-premises
consumption, gun shop, or hookah bar.
      (2)   Hours of operation. Alternative financial services providers
located within 150 feet of a lot or lots containing a conforming single-family
residence, as measured on a straight line from the nearest point of the outside
walls of the building containing the alternative financial services provider to
the nearest property line of the residence, shall not be permitted to operate
between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      (3)   Lighting and visibility. Window and door areas shall not be
covered, tinted, or obscured in any way, including by temporary or painted
window signs, and the interior lighting of the business shall remain at
adequate levels to clearly see into the business from the exterior of the
business.
      (4)   Security devices. The use of bars, chains, or similar security
devices that are visible from public view shall be prohibited.
      (5)   Outdoor activity. All receipt, sorting and processing of goods
shall occur within a completely enclosed building. All outdoor sales shall be
prohibited.
      (6)   Parking. Parking shall be provided as required for "banks and
savings and loan associations without drive-in facility", as specified in §
154.12.01, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements.
      (7)   Compliance with state and federal laws. Alternative financial
services providers shall be in compliance with all state and federal laws.
(Ord. 3582, passed 4-12-16)
ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN STANDARDS.
§ 154.17.01 ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose and Applicability.
      (1)   The purpose of this chapter is to promote development in the City
of West Carrollton that contributes to it as a unique place that reflects its
historic past, physical character and community identity. These regulations
serve as a basis to promote creative and appealing architectural design; to
enhance the longevity, overall integrity, and economic value of the built
environment; and to strengthen the City's image.
(Ord. 3419. Passed 4-28-09.)
      (2)   This chapter shall apply to new construction of and major façade
alterations to non-residential and multi-family residential buildings in the
following zoning districts. Additions to existing buildings may continue with a
similar exterior design to maintain architectural continuity.
         (a)   R-4 Multiple-Family Residential District.
         (b)   R-5 Multiple-Family Residential District.
         (c)   R-PUD Planned Development District.
         (d)   O-R Office Residential District.
         (e)   O Office District.
         (f)   B-1 Convenience Commercial District.
         (g)   B-2 General Commercial District.
         (h)   OD Olde Downtown District.
         (i)   CC City Center District.
         (j)   M-1 Business Park District, excepting the following uses: light
manufacturing; warehousing/wholesaling/distribution facilities.
         (k)   M-2 Manufacturing District, excepting the following uses: heavy
manufacturing; warehousing/wholesaling/distribution facilities.
         (l)   M-3 Rural Manufacturing District, excepting the following uses:
heavy manufacturing; warehousing/wholesaling/distribution facilities.
         (m)   PUD Planned Unit Development District. (Ord. 3616. Passed 9-12-
17.)
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall review the architectural design of
all buildings regulated by this chapter in accordance with the requirements
specified herein. All applications for design approval shall contain a written
description of the proposed improvements as well as architectural elevations
showing the color, dimensions, and materials of all improvements, at a minimum,
and all other materials necessary for consideration of the request.
   (B)   Definitions.
      (1)   Brick. A solid masonry unit of clay or shale, formed into a
rectangular prism while plastic and burned or fired in a kiln. No manufactured
brick shall be permitted.
      (2)   Major façade alteration. Any material change in external
architectural features including but not limited to walls, roofs, windows,
siding, awnings/canopies, doors, and entrances, but not including painting,
affecting more than fifty (50) percent of the total exterior wall area.
      (3)   Stone. Granite, marble, limestone, slate, river rock, field stone,
and other hard and durable naturally occurring all-weather stone. Cut stone is
acceptable. No manufactured stone shall be permitted.
   (C)   Building Design and Mass.
      (1)   Architectural elevations for all buildings shall be that the
design, massing, materials, shape, and scale, of all buildings shall create a
unified design on the premises and shall be visually compatible.
      (2)   All architectural elevations of principal buildings shall consist
of a base, a body, and a cap.
         (a)   The base shall occupy the lowest portion of the elevation, and
shall have a height no less than eight (8) percent of the average wall height.
         (b)   The body shall occupy the middle portion of the elevation, and
shall have a height no less than sixty (60) percent of the average wall height.
         (c)   The cap shall occupy the highest portion of the elevation,
excluding the roof, and shall have a height no less than eight (8) percent of
the average wall height, not to exceed the height of the base. The cap shall
consist of at least one of the following architectural features: a cornice,
parapet, awning, canopy, or eaves.
         (d)   The base and cap shall be clearly distinguishable from the body
through changes in color, material, pattern, profile, or texture. The cap and
base shall have different materials than body unless otherwise approved by the
Planning Commission.
      (3)   Blank building walls in public view are prohibited. Buildings shall
incorporate architectural elements which serve to break up the horizontal
emphasis of the elevation. Roofline changes, material or color changes,
horizontal and vertical wall offsets, projections, recesses, pilasters,
awnings, building entrances, true or faux windows, and other similar features
are examples that may be utilized.
      (4)   All building rooftop mechanical equipment shall be screened from
public view from all directions with architectural features (roof forms or
parapet walls) of each building. Metal screening will not be accepted.
   (D)   Building Materials. 
      (1)   Base: full-sized clay brick, natural stone, or textured concrete
block are permitted as siding materials for the base of the building.
      (2)   Body: full-sized clay brick or natural stone are permitted as
siding materials for the body of the building.
      (3)   Cap: full-sized clay brick, natural stone, textured concrete block,
natural wood, or applied materials such as exterior insulation finish system
(E.I.F.S.) or other synthetic materials are permitted materials for the cap of
the building.
      (4)   The following materials may be permitted for limited use on the
building base or cap with the specific approval of the Planning Commission:
textured concrete block, masonry product, steel, architectural metal, natural
wood, HardiPlank (fiber cement siding), or other similar building material.
   (E)   Colors. All exterior building colors shall be of low-reflectance,
subdued earth tones. The use of black or high-intensity metallic or fluorescent
colors is prohibited. Any building color or color combinations whose major
function is to convey visual information or to attract visual attention is
considered a sign and shall be subject to the requirements of Chapter 153:
Signs.
   (F)   Other.
      (1)   Pitched roofs, especially gable and hip roofs, are encouraged. The
height of any pitched roof shall not exceed one-half (1/2) of the overall
building height. Permitted materials for pitched roofs include wood, slate,
fiberglass reinforced asphalt roof shingles and standing seam or terned metal.
Except when used on flat roofs that are not generally visible, roll roofing,
built-up tar and gravel, metal panel or corrugated metal, plastic, or
fiberglass roofing materials other than fiberglass reinforced asphalt roof
shingles shall be prohibited.
      (2)   Service station canopies and columns, and freestanding ground or
monument signs shall be clad in full-sized clay brick or natural stone matching
the material and color of the principal building.
      (3)   Dumpster enclosures shall be clad on three sides in full-sized clay
brick or natural stone matching the material and color of the principal
building, with a locking powder-coated black opaque aluminum gate.
   (G)   Waivers. Alternatives to these requirements shall be reviewed and
evaluated by the Planning Commission on the basis of whether the request will
contribute to the enhancement, longevity, safety, utility, and overall
integrity of a proposed structure. (Ord. 3419. Passed 4-28-09.)
CHAPTER 155: FAIR HOUSING PRACTICES
Section
155.01   Definitions
155.02   Unlawful discriminatory practices
155.03   Exceptions
 
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATE or DISCRIMINATION. Any distinction or difference in treatment
based on the race, color, religion, sex, national origin, or ancestry of a
person.
   FAMILY. A spouse, child, parent, grandparent, brother or sister, mother-in-
law, or father-in-law.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Any individual or individuals, partnership,
associations, organizations, trustees, corporations, agents, legal
representatives, receivers, or other organized groups of persons regularly
engaged in the business of lending money or guaranteeing loans on real
property.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION. Any building or structure or portion thereof which is
used or occupied or is intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied
as the home residence or sleeping place of one or more individuals, groups, or
families whether living independently of each other; and any vacant land
offered for sale or lease, including land offered for use as a trailer park and
sites offered for mobile homes. Also any housing accommodation held or offered
for sale or rent by a real estate broker, salesman, or agent, or by any other
person pursuant to authorization of the owner, by the owner himself, or his
legal representative.
   INSURER. Any individual or individuals, partnerships, associations,
trustees, corporations,  agents, legal representatives, receivers, or other
organized groups of persons regularly engaged in the business of issuing
casualty insurance policies or title insurance policies on real property.
   PERSON. One or more individuals, partnerships, associations, organizations,
corporations, legal representatives, trustees, trustees in bankruptcy,
receivers, and other organized groups of persons. Also including, but is not
limited to, any owner, lessor, assignor, builder, manager, broker, salesman,
agent, employee, lending institution, and the state, and all political
subdivisions, authorities, agencies, boards, and commissions thereof.
   PURCHASER. Any occupant, prospective occupant, lessee, prospective lessee,
buyer, prospective buyer, tenant, or prospective tenant.
   REAL ESTATE AGENT. Any real estate broker, real estate salesman, or an agent
thereof, or any other person, partnership, association or corporation, who, for
consideration, sells, purchases, exchanges, rents, negotiates, offers, or
attempts to negotiate the sale, purchase, exchange or rental of real property
or holds himself out as engaged in the business of selling, purchasing,
exchanging, renting, or otherwise transferring any interest in real property.
   RESTRICTIVE COVENANT. Any specification limiting the transfer, rental,
lease, or other use of any housing accommodation because of race, color,
religion, sex, national origin, or ancestry, or any limitation based upon
affiliation with or approval by any person, directly or indirectly, employing
race, color, religion, sex, national origin, or ancestry as a condition of
affiliation or approval.
   SELLER. Individuals, partnerships, associations, organizations, trustees,
corporations, agents, legal representatives, receivers, and other organized
groups of persons that:
      (A)   Sell real property whether improved or unimproved;
      (B)   Lease or rent real property in a single building consisting of one
or more housing units.
   STEERING. Any real estate marketing, financing, or advertising practice
which limits the choice of a prospective user of housing accommodations due to
his race, color, religion, sex, national origin, or ancestry.
   UNLAWFUL DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICE. Any act prohibited by this chapter. (Ord.
2156, passed 9-11-79)
§ 155.02 UNLAWFUL DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful discriminatory practice, for any real estate
agent, seller, or other person:
      (1)   To refuse to sell, transfer, assign, rent, lease, sublease,
finance, or otherwise deny or withhold housing accommodations from any person
because of the race, color, religion, sex, national origin, or ancestry of any
prospective purchaser, occupant, or user of such housing.
      (2)   To represent to any person that housing is not available for
inspection when in fact it is so available.
      (3)   To discriminate against any person in the terms or conditions of
selling, transferring, assigning, renting, leasing, or subleasing any housing
or in furnishing facilities, services, or privileges in connection with the
ownership, occupancy, or use of any housing because of the race, color,
religion, sex, ancestry, or national origin of any present or prospective
purchaser, occupant, or user of such housing.
      (4)   To print, publish, or circulate any statement or advertisement
relating to the sale, transfer, assignment, rental, lease, sublease, or
acquisition of any housing which indicates any preference, limitation,
specification, or discrimination based upon race, color, sex, religion,
ancestry, or national origin.
      (5)   To make any inquiry, elicit any information, make or keep any
record, or use any form of application containing questions or entries
concerning race, color, religion, sex, ancestry, or national origin in
connection with the sale or lease of any housing, except where required or
permitted by the government of the United States or any department or agency
thereof, or by the State of Ohio or any department or agency thereof, or by any
court of competent jurisdiction.
      (6)   To include in any transfer, rental, or lease of housing any
restrictive covenant, or to honor or exercise, or attempt to honor or exercise,
any such restrictive covenant, provided that the prior inclusion of a
restrictive covenant in the chain of title shall not be deemed a violation of
this provision.
      (7)   To induce or solicit or attempt to induce or solicit a housing
listing, sale, or transaction by representing that a change has occurred or may
occur with respect to the racial, religious, or ethnic composition of the
block, neighborhood, or area in which the property is located, or induce or
solicit or attempt to induce or solicit such sale or listing by representing
that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any race, color,
religion, sex, ancestry, or national origin, in the area will or may have
results such as the following:
         (a)   The lowering of property values;
         (b)   A change in the racial, religious, or ethnic composition of the
block, neighborhood, or area in which the property is located;
         (c)   An increase in criminal or antisocial behavior in the area;
         (d)   A decline in the quality of the schools serving the area;
      (8)   To deny any person access to or membership or participation in any
multiple-listing service, real estate brokers' organization, or other service,
organization or facility relating to the business of selling or renting housing
accommodations, or to discriminate against him in the terms or conditions of
such access, membership, or participation, on account of race, color, religion,
sex, national origin, or ancestry.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful discriminatory practice, for any financial
institution or other person:
      (1)   To refuse to lend money, whether or not secured by mortgage or
otherwise, for the acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair, or
maintenance of housing or to otherwise withhold financing of housing from any
person because of the race, color, religion, sex, ancestry, or national origin
of any present or prospective purchaser, occupant, or user of such housing,
provided such person, whether an individual corporation, or association of any
type, lends money as one of the principal aspects of his business or incidental
to his principal business and not only as a part of the purchase price of an
owner-occupied residence he is selling nor merely casually or occasionally to a
relative or friend.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms or conditions of
any loan of money, whether or not secured by mortgage, or otherwise, for the
acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair, or maintenance of housing
because of the race, color, religion, sex, ancestry, or national origin of any
present or prospective owner, occupant, or user of such housing.
      (3)   To print, publish, or circulate any statement or advertisement
relating to the loan of money, whether or not secured by mortgage or otherwise,
for the acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair, or maintenance of
housing which indicates any preference, limitation, specification, or
discrimination based upon race, color, religion, sex, ancestry, or national
origin.
      (4)   To make any inquiry, elicit any information, make or keep any
record, or use any form of application containing questions or entries
concerning race, color, religion, sex, ancestry, or national origin in
connection with the loan of any money, whether or not secured by mortgage or
otherwise, for the acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair, or
maintenance of housing, except where required or permitted by the government of
the United States or any department or agency thereof, or by the State of Ohio
or any department or agency thereof, or by any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful discriminatory practice, for any insurer or other
person:
      (1)   To discriminate in the issuance, insuring, extending, granting, or
renewing or in the fixing of rates, premiums, terms, or conditions of any
casualty insurance policy or title insurance policy for the sale, purchase,
rental, leasing, or construction of any real property or improvement thereon.
      (2)   To make an inquiry, elicit any information, make or keep any
record, or use any form of application containing questions or entries
concerning race, color, religion, sex, ancestry, or national origin in
connection with any casualty insurance policy or title insurance policy for the
sale, purchase, rental, leasing or construction of any real property or
improvement thereon, except where required or permitted by the government of
the United States or any department or agency thereof, or by the State of Ohio
or any department or agency thereof, or by any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful discriminatory practice, for any person:
      (1)   To coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised or enjoyed,
or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in the
exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by this chapter.
      (2)   To, by force or threat of force, willfully injure, intimidate, or
interfere with, or attempt to injure, intimidate, or interfere with:
         (a)   Any person because of his race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, or ancestry and because he is or has been selling, purchasing, renting,
financing, occupying, or contracting or negotiating for the sale, purchase,
rental, financing, or occupation of any dwelling, or applying for or
participating in any service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling, or renting housing accommodations;
         (b)   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
            1.   Participating, without discrimination on account of race,
color, religion, sex, national origin, or ancestry, in any of the activities,
services, organizations, or facilities described in division (a) above;
            2.   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
         (c)   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to discourage
such person or any other person from lawfully aiding or encouraging other
persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, national origin, or ancestry, in any of the activities,
services, organizations, or facilities described in division (a) above, or
participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of
the opportunity to so participate.
      (3)   To discriminate in any manner against any other person because he
has opposed any unlawful practice defined in this section, or because he has
made a charge, testified, assisted, or participated in any manner in any
investigation, proceeding, or hearing under this chapter.
      (4)   To aid, abet, incite, compel, or coerce the doing of any act
declared by this section to be an unlawful discriminatory practice, or to
obstruct or prevent any person from complying with the provisions of this
chapter, or any order issued thereunder, or to attempt directly or indirectly
to commit any act declared by this section to be an unlawful discriminatory
practice.
      (5)   To make or cause to be made, with intent to mislead, any false
entry or statement of fact in any report, account, record, or other document
submitted to any public official, board, or commission, authorized by statute
or ordinance to investigate unlawful discriminatory practices. No person shall
willfully neglect or fail to make or cause to be made full, true and correct
entries in such reports, accounts, records, or other documents submitted to
such public official, board, or commission. (Ord. 2156, passed 9-11-79)
§ 155.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   However, nothing in this chapter shall bar any religious or
denominational institution or organization, or any charitable or educational
organization, which is operated, supervised, or controlled by or in connection
with a religious organization, or any bona fide private or fraternal
organization, from giving preference to persons of the same religion or
denomination, or to members of such private or fraternal organization, or from
making such selection as is calculated by such organization to promote the
religious principles or the aims, purposes, or fraternal principles for which
it is established or maintained.
   (B)   Provided further that the prohibitions contained in this chapter shall
not apply to the rental of a portion of the housing accommodation by the
occupant thereof.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall require an order to offer property for
sale, lease, or rental to any person if the owner has any reason to believe
that such person is not negotiating for the purchase, rental, or lease of such
property in good faith.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly and intentionally induce and entrap another
to commit a violation of this chapter not contemplated by him for the purpose
of instituting prosecution against him. (Ord. 2156, passed 9-11-79)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of an unlawful,
discriminatory practice, a misdemeanor of the third degree. Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 156: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION CODE
Section
General Provisions
156.01.1   Statutory authorization
156.01.2   Findings of fact
156.01.3   Statement of purpose
156.01.4   Methods of reducing flood losses
156.01.5   Lands to which these regulations apply
156.01.6   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
156.01.7   Abrogation and greater restrictions
156.01.8   Interpretation
156.01.9   Warning and disclaimer of liability
156.01.10   Severability
Definitions
156.02.1
Administration
156.03.1   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
156.03.2   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
156.03.3   Floodplain development permits
156.03.4   Application required
156.03.5   Review and approval of a floodplain development permit application
156.03.6   Inspections
156.03.7   Post-construction certifications required
156.03.8   Revoking a floodplain development permit
156.03.9   Exemption from filing a development permit
156.03.10   Map maintenance activities
156.03.11   Data use and flood map interpretation
156.03.12   Substantial damage determinations
Use and Development Standards for Flood Hazard Reduction
156.04.1   Use regulations
156.04.2   Water and wastewater systems
156.04.3   Subdivisions and large developments
156.04.4   Residential structures
156.04.5   Nonresidential structures
156.04.6   Accessory structures
156.04.7   Recreational vehicles
156.04.8   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks
156.04.9   Assurance of flood carrying capacity
Appeals and Variances
156.05.1   Appeals Board established
156.05.2   Powers and duties
156.05.3   Appeals
156.05.4   Variances
156.05.5   Procedure at hearings
156.05.6   Appeal to the Court
Enforcement
156.06.1   Compliance required
156.06.2   Notice of violation
156.06.3   Violations and penalties
Stormwater Runoff, Soil Erosion, and Sedimentation Control
156.33   Purpose
156.34   Definitions
156.35   Scope and intent
156.36   Stormwater runoff control standards
156.37   Soil erosion and sedimentation control standards
156.38   Runoff control and sediment abatement plan requirements
156.39   Administration and appeals
156.40   Compliance responsibility
156.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01.1 Statutory Authorization.
   ARTICLE XVIII, Section 3, of the Ohio Constitution grants municipalities the
legal authority to adopt land use and control measures for promoting the
health, safety, and general welfare of its citizens. Therefore, the City
Council of West Carrollton, State of Ohio, does ordain as follows:
(Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
§ 156.01.2 Findings of Fact.
   The City of West Carrollton has special flood hazard areas that are subject
to periodic inundation which may result in loss of life and property, health
and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base. Additionally, structures that are inadequately
elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise protected from flood damage also
contribute to the flood loss. In order to minimize the threat of such damages
and to achieve the purposes hereinafter set forth, these regulations are
adopted.
(Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
§ 156.01.3 Statement of Purpose.
   It is the purpose of these regulations to promote the public health, safety
and general welfare, and to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the proper use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to protect property and
minimize future flood blight areas;
   G.   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions;
   H.   Minimize the impact of development on adjacent properties within and
near flood prone areas;
   I.   Ensure that the flood storage and conveyance functions of the
floodplain are maintained;
   J.   Minimize the impact of development on the natural, beneficial values of
the floodplain;
   K.   Prevent floodplain uses that are either hazardous or environmentally
incompatible; and
   L.   Meet community participation requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program. (Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
§ 156.01.4 Methods of Reducing Flood Loss.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, these regulations include methods and
provisions for:
   A.   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
flood heights or velocities;
   B.   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be
protected against flood damage at the time of initial construction;
   C.   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood waters;
   D.   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, excavating, and other
development which may increase flood damage; and,
   E.   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally
divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards in other areas.
(Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
§ 156.01.5 Lands to Which These Regulations Apply.
   These regulations shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within
the jurisdiction of the City of West Carrollton as identified in Section
156.01.6, including any additional areas of special flood hazard annexed by the
City of West Carrollton.
(Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
§ 156.01.6 Basis for Establishing the Areas of Special Flood Hazard.
   For the purposes of these regulations, the following studies and/or maps are
adopted:
   A.   Flood Insurance Study for Montgomery County, Ohio and Incorporated
Areas dated January 6, 2005. Flood Insurance Rate Map for Montgomery County,
Ohio and Incorporated Areas dated January 6, 2005.
   B.   Any hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis authored by a
registered Professional Engineer in the State of Ohio which has been approved
by the City of West Carrollton as required by Section
156.04.3 Subdivisions and Large Scale Developments.
   Any revisions to the aforementioned maps and/or studies are hereby adopted
by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations. Such maps and/or
studies are on file at the Civic Center, 300 E. Central Ave., West Carrollton,
Ohio 45449.
(Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
§ 156.01.7 Abrogation and Greater Restrictions.
   These regulations are not intended to repeal any existing ordinances
including subdivision regulations, zoning or building codes. In the event of a
conflict between these regulations and any other ordinance, the more
restrictive shall be followed. These regulations shall not impair any deed
restriction covenant or easement but the land subject to such interests shall
also be governed by the regulations.
(Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
§ 156.01.8 Interpretation.
   In the interpretation and application of these regulations, all provisions
shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and,
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. Where a provision of these regulations may be in conflict with a
state or Federal law, such state or Federal law shall take precedence over
these regulations.
(Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
§ 156.01.9 Warning and Disclaimer of Liability.
   The degree of flood protection required by these regulations is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. These regulations do
not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. These regulations
shall not create liability on the part of the City of West Carrollton, any
officer or employee thereof, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency, for
any flood damage that results from reliance on these regulations or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
§ 156.01.10 Severability.
   Should any section or provision of these regulations be declared by the
courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the regulations as a whole, or any part thereof other than the part
so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
DEFINITIONS
§ 156.02.1 
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in these regulations
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give these regulations the most reasonable application.
Accessory Structure
A structure on the same lot with, and of a nature customarily incidental and
subordinate to, the principal structure.
Appeal
A request for review of the Floodplain Administrator's interpretation of any
provision of these regulations or a request for a variance.
Base Flood
The flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given
year. The base flood may also be referred to as the 1% chance annual flood or
one-hundred (100) year flood.
Base (100-Year) Flood Elevation (BFE)
The water surface elevation of the base flood in relation to a specified datum,
usually the National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929 or the North American
Vertical Datum of l988, and usually expressed in Feet Mean Sea Level (MSL). In
Zone AO areas, the base flood elevation is the natural grade elevation plus the
depth number (from 1 to 3 feet).
Basement
Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on all
sides.
Development
Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate, including but not
limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of equipment or materials.
Enclosure Below the Lowest Floor
See "Lowest Floor."
Executive Order 11988 (Floodplain Management) Issued by President Carter in
1977, this order requires that no federally assisted activities be conducted in
or have the potential to affect identified special flood hazard areas, unless
there is no practicable alternative.
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) The agency with the overall
responsibility for administering the National Flood Insurance Program.
Fill
A deposit of earth material placed by artificial means.
Flood or Flooding
A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally
dry land areas from:
      1.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters, and/or
      2.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM)
Usually the initial map, produced by the Federal Emergency Management Agency,
or U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, for a community depicting
approximate special flood hazard areas.
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
An official map on which the Federal Emergency Management Agency or the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development has delineated the areas of special
flood hazard.
Flood Insurance Risk Zones
Zone designations on FHBMs and FIRMs that indicate the magnitude of the flood
hazard in specific areas of a community. Following are the zone definitions:
Zone A: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100- year flood; base flood
elevations are not determined.
Zones A1-30 and Zone AE: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood; base flood elevations are determined.
Zone AO: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood; with flood
depths of 1 to 3 feet (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain); average depths
are determined.
Zone AH: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood; flood
depths of 1 to 3 feet (usually areas of ponding); base flood elevations are
determined.
Zone A99: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood to be
protected from the 100-year flood by a Federal flood protection system under
construction; no base flood elevations are determined.
Zone B and Zone X (shaded): Areas of 500-year flood; areas subject to the 100-
year flood with average depths of less than 1 foot or with contributing
drainage area less than 1 square mile; and areas protected by levees from the
base flood.
Zone C and Zone X (unshaded): Areas determined to be outside the 500-year
floodplain.
Flood Insurance Study (FIS) The official report in which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development has
provided flood profiles, floodway boundaries (sometimes shown on Flood Boundary
and Floodway Maps), and the water surface elevations of the base flood.
Flood Protection Elevation
The Flood Protection Elevation, or FPE, is the base flood elevation. In areas
where no base flood elevations exist from any authoritative source, the flood
protection elevation can be historical flood elevations, or base flood
elevations determined and/or approved by the Floodplain Administrator.
Floodway
A floodway is the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that have been reserved in order to pass the base flood discharge. A
floodway is typically determined through a hydraulic and hydrologic engineering
analysis such that the cumulative increase in the water surface elevation of
the base flood discharge is no more than a designated height. In no case shall
the designated height be more than one foot at any point within the community.
The floodway is an extremely hazardous area, and is usually characterized by
any of the following: Moderate to high velocity flood waters, high potential
for debris and projectile impacts, and moderate to high erosion forces.
Freeboard
A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for the
purposes of floodplain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for the many
unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height
calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave
action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams, and the hydrologic
effect of urbanization in a watershed.
Historic structure
Any structure that is:
   1.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listings on the National Register;
   2.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district; or
   3.   Individually listed on the State of Ohio's inventory of historic places
maintained by the Ohio Historic Preservation Office.
Hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis
An analysis performed by a professional engineer, registered in the State of
Ohio, in accordance with standard engineering practices as accepted by FEMA,
used to determine flood elevations and/or floodway boundaries.
Letter of Map Change (LOMC)
A Letter of Map Change is an official FEMA determination, by letter, to amend
or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Boundary and Floodway
Maps, and Flood Insurance Studies. LOMC's are broken down into the following
categories:
Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA):
A revision based on technical data showing that a property was incorrectly
included in a designated special flood hazard area. A LOMA amends the current
effective Flood Insurance Rate Map and establishes that a specific property is
not located in a special flood hazard area.
Letter of Map Revision (LOMR):
A revision based on technical data that, usually due to manmade changes, shows
changes to flood zones, flood elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations,
and planimetric features. One common type of LOMR, a LOMR-F, is a determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated by fill above the
base flood elevation and is, therefore, excluded from the special flood hazard
area.
Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR):
A formal review and comment by FEMA as to whether a proposed project complies
with the minimum National Flood Insurance Program floodplain management
criteria. A CLOMR does not amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps,
Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps, or Flood Insurance Studies.
Lowest floor
The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement) of a
structure. This definition excludes an "enclosure below the lowest floor" which
is an unfinished or flood resistant enclosure usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a basement area,
provided that such enclosure is built in accordance with the applicable design
requirements specified in these regulations for enclosures below the lowest
floor.
Manufactured home
A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a
permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term "manufactured
home" does not include a "recreational vehicle". For the purposes of these
regulations, a manufactured home includes manufactured homes and mobile homes
as defined in Chapter 3733 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Manufactured home park
As specified in the Ohio Administrative Code 3701-27- 01, a manufactured home
park means any tract of land upon which three or more manufactured homes, used
for habitation are parked, either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and
includes any roadway, building, structure, vehicle, or enclosure used or
intended for use as part of the facilities of the park. A tract of land that is
subdivided and the individual lots are not for rent or rented, but are for sale
or sold for the purpose of installation of manufactured homes on the lots, is
not a manufactured home park, even though three or more manufactured homes are
parked thereon, if the roadways are dedicated to the local government
authority.
National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP)
The NFIP is a Federal program enabling property owners in participating
communities to purchase insurance protection against losses from flooding. This
insurance is designed to provide an insurance alternative to disaster
assistance to meet the escalating costs of repairing damage to buildings and
their contents caused by floods. Participation in the NFIP is based on an
agreement between local communities and the Federal government that states if a
community will adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations to reduce
future flood risks to all development in special flood hazard areas, the
Federal government will make flood insurance available within the community as
a financial protection against flood loss.
New construction
Structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the
initial effective date of the
City of West Carrollton Flood Insurance Rate Map, October 15, 1981, and
includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
Person 
Includes any individual or group of individuals, corporation, partnership,
association, or any other entity, including state and local governments and
agencies. An agency is further defined in the Ohio Revised Code Section 111.15
as any governmental entity of the State and includes, but is not limited to,
any board, department, division, commission, bureau, society, council,
institution, state college or university, community college district, technical
college district, or state community college. "Agency" does not include the
General Assembly, the Controlling Board, the Adjutant General's Department, or
any court.
Recreational vehicle
A vehicle which is:
   1.   Built on a single chassis,
   2.   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projection,
   3.   Designed to be self- propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck, and
   4.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
Registered Professional Architect
A person registered to engage in the practice of architecture under the
provisions of sections 4703.01 to 4703.19 of the Revised Code.
Registered Professional Engineer
A person registered as a professional engineer under Chapter 4733 of the
Revised Code.
Registered Professional Surveyor
A person registered as a professional surveyor under Chapter 4733 of the
Revised Code.
Special Flood Hazard Area
Also known as "Areas of Special Flood Hazard", it is the land in the floodplain
subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
Special flood hazard areas are designated by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency on Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Insurance Studies, Flood Boundary
and Floodway Maps and Flood Hazard Boundary Maps as Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-30,
and A99. Special flood hazard areas may also refer to areas that are flood
prone and designated from other federal state or local sources of data
including but not limited to historical flood information reflecting high water
marks, previous flood inundation areas, and flood prone soils associated with a
watercourse.
Start of Construction
The date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or
other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start
means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of a building.
Structure
A walled and roofed building, manufactured home, or gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally above ground.
Substantial Damage
Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the
structure to its before damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
Substantial Improvement
Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value
of the structure before the "start of construction" of the improvement. This
term includes structures which have incurred "substantial damage", regardless
of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however, include:
   1.   Any improvement to a structure which is considered "new construction,"
   2.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified prior to the application for a development permit by
the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
   3.   Any alteration of a "historic structure," provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure".
Variance
A grant of relief from the standards of these regulations consistent with the
variance conditions herein.
Violation
The failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with
these regulations.
(Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 156.03.1 Designation of the Floodplain Administrator.
   The Director of Planning and Economic Development is hereby appointed to
administer and implement these regulations and is referred to herein as the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
§ 156.03.2 Duties and Responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include but are not limited to:
   A.   Evaluate applications for permits to develop in special flood hazard
areas.
   B.   Interpret floodplain boundaries and provide flood hazard and flood
protection elevation information.
   C.   Issue permits to develop in special flood hazard areas when the
provisions of these regulations have been met, or refuse to issue the same in
the event of noncompliance.
   D.   Inspect buildings and lands to determine whether any violations of
these regulations have been committed.
   E.   Make and permanently keep all records for public inspection necessary
for the administration of these regulations including Flood Insurance Rate
Maps, Letters of Map Amendment and Revision, records of issuance and denial of
permits to develop in special flood hazard areas, determinations of whether
development is in or out of special flood hazard areas for the purpose of
issuing floodplain development permits, elevation certificates, variances, and
records of enforcement actions taken for violations of these regulations.
   F.   Enforce the provisions of these regulations.
   G.   Provide information, testimony, or other evidence as needed during
variance hearings.
   H.   Coordinate map maintenance activities and FEMA follow-up.
   I.   Conduct substantial damage determinations to determine whether existing
structures, damaged from any source and in special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA, must meet the development standards of these regulations.
(Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
§ 156.03.3 Floodplain Development Permits
   It shall be unlawful for any person to begin construction or other
development activity including but not limited to filling; grading;
construction; alteration, remodeling, or expanding any structure; or alteration
of any watercourse wholly within, partially within or in contact with any
identified special flood hazard area, as established in Section
156.01.6, until a floodplain development permit is obtained from the Floodplain
Administrator. Such floodplain development permit shall show that the proposed
development activity is in conformity with the provisions of these regulations.
No such permit shall be issued by the Floodplain Administrator until the
requirements of these regulations have been met.
(Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
§ 156.03.4 Application Required
   An application for a floodplain development permit shall be required for all
development activities located wholly within, partially within, or in contact
with an identified special flood hazard area. Such application shall be made by
the owner of the property or his/her authorized agent, herein referred to as
the applicant, prior to the actual commencement of such construction on a form
furnished for that purpose.   Where it is unclear whether a development site is
in a special flood hazard area, the Floodplain Administrator may require an
application for a floodplain development permit to determine the development's
location. Such applications shall include, but not be limited to:
   A.   Site plans drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
topography of the area in question; the location of existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing.
   B.   Elevation of the existing, natural ground where structures are
proposed.
   C.   Elevation of the lowest floor, including basement, of all proposed
structures.
   D.   Such other material and information as may be requested by the
Floodplain Administrator to determine conformance with, and provide enforcement
of these regulations.
   E.   Technical analyses conducted by the appropriate design professional
registered in the State of Ohio and submitted with an application for a
floodplain development permit when applicable:
      1.   Floodproofing certification for non-residential floodproofed
structure as required in Section
156.04.5.
      2.   Certification that fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor of a
structure not meeting the design requirements of Section
156.04.4(E) are designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces.
      3.   Description of any watercourse alteration or relocation that the
flood carrying capacity of the watercourse will not be diminished, and
maintenance assurances as required in Section
156.04.9(C).
      4.   A hydrologic and hydraulic analysis demonstrating that the
cumulative effect of proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood by more than one foot in special flood hazard areas
where the Federal Emergency Management Agency has provided base flood
elevations but no floodway as required by Section
156.04.9(B).
      5.   A hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis showing impact of
any development on flood heights in an identified floodway as required by
Section
156.04.9(A).
      6.   Generation of base flood elevation(s) for subdivisions and large
scale developments as required by Section
156.04.3.
   F.   The application fee for a Floodplain Development Permit Application
shall be $25.00.
(Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
§ 156.03.5 Review and Approval of a Floodplain Development Permit Application
   A.   Review.
      1.   After receipt of a complete application, the Floodplain
Administrator shall review the application to ensure that the standards of
these regulations have been met. No floodplain development permit application
shall be reviewed until all information required in Section
156.03.4 has been received by the Floodplain Administrator.
      2.   The Floodplain Administrator shall review all floodplain development
permit applications to assure that all necessary permits have been received
from those federal, state or local governmental agencies from which prior
approval is required. The applicant shall be responsible for obtaining such
permits as required including permits issued by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers under Section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act and Section 404 of the
Clean Water Act, and the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency under Section 401
of the Clean Water Act.
   B.   Approval.  Within thirty (30) days after the receipt of a complete
application, the Floodplain Administrator shall either approve or disapprove
the application. If an application is approved, a floodplain development permit
shall be issued. All floodplain development permits shall be conditional upon
the commencement of work within one (1) year. A floodplain development permit
shall expire one (1) year after issuance unless the permitted activity has been
substantially begun and is thereafter pursued to completion. (Ord. 3280. Passed
10-26-04.)
§ 156.03.6 Inspections
   The Floodplain Administrator shall make periodic inspections at appropriate
times throughout the period of construction in order to monitor compliance with
permit conditions.
(Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
§ 156.03.7 Post-Construction Certifications Required
   The following as-built certifications are required after a floodplain
development permit has been issued:
   A.   For new or substantially improved residential structures, or
nonresidential structures that have been elevated, the applicant shall have a
Federal Emergency Management Agency Elevation Certificate completed by a
registered surveyor to record as-built elevation data. For elevated structures
in Zone A and Zone AO areas without a base flood elevation, the elevation
certificate may be completed by the property owner or owner's representative.
   B.   For all development activities subject to the standards of Section
156.03.10(A), a Letter of Map Revision. (Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
§ 156.03.8 Revoking a Floodplain Development Permit
   A floodplain development permit shall be revocable, if among other things,
the actual development activity does not conform to the terms of the
application and permit granted thereon. In the event of the revocation of a
permit, an appeal may be taken to the Appeals Board (Variance Board for
Counties) in accordance with Section 156.05 of these regulations. (Ord. 3280.
Passed 10-26- 04.)
§ 156.03.9 Exemption from Filing a Development Permit
   An application for a floodplain development permit shall not be required
for:
   A.   Maintenance work such as roofing, painting, and basement sealing, or
for small nonstructural development activities (except for filling and grading)
valued at less than $5,000.
   B.   Development activities in an existing or proposed manufactured home
park that are under the authority of the Ohio Department of Health and subject
to the flood damage reduction provisions of the Ohio Administrative Code
Chapter 3701.
   C.   Major utility facilities permitted by the Ohio Power Siting Board under
Chapter 4906 of the Ohio Revised Code.
   D.   Hazardous waste disposal facilities permitted by the Hazardous Waste
Siting Board under Chapter 3734 of the Ohio Revised Code.
   E.   Development activities undertaken by a federal agency and which are
subject to Federal Executive Order 11988 - Floodplain Management.
   Any proposed action exempt from filing for a floodplain development permit
is also exempt from the standards of these regulations.
(Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
§ 156.03.10 Map Maintenance Activities
   To meet National Flood Insurance Program minimum requirements to have flood
data reviewed and approved by FEMA, and to ensure that the City of West
Carrollton flood maps, studies and other data identified in Section
156.01.6 accurately represent flooding conditions so appropriate floodplain
management criteria are based on current data, the following map maintenance
activities are identified:
   A.   Requirement to Submit New Technical Data
      1.   For all development proposals that impact floodway delineations or
base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that technical data
reflecting such changes be submitted to FEMA within six months of the date such
information becomes available. These development proposals include:
         a.   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
         b.   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area;
         c.   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts; and
         d.   Subdivision or large scale development proposals requiring the
establishment of base flood elevations in accordance with Section
156.04.3.
      2.   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have technical data,
required in accordance with Section
156.03.10A., prepared in a format required for a Conditional Letter of Map
Revision or Letter of Map Revision, and submitted to FEMA. Submittal and
processing fees for these map revisions shall be the responsibility of the
applicant.
      3.   The Floodplain Administrator shall require a Conditional Letter of
Map Revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for:
         a.   Proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base flood
elevation; and
         b.   Proposed development which increases the base flood elevation by
more than one foot in areas where FEMA has provided base flood elevations but
no floodway.
      4.   Floodplain development permits issued by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a Letter of Map
Revision from FEMA for any development proposal subject to Section
156.03.10A.1.
   B.   Right to Submit New Technical Data
   The Floodplain Administrator may request changes to any of the information
shown on an effective map that does not impact floodplain or floodway
delineations or base flood elevations, such as labeling or planimetric details.
Such a submission shall include appropriate supporting documentation made in
writing by the City Manager of the City of West Carrollton, and may be
submitted at any time.
   C.   Annexation/Detachment.
   Upon occurrence, the Floodplain Administrator shall notify FEMA in writing
whenever the boundaries of the City of West Carrollton have been modified by
annexation or the community has assumed authority over an area, or no longer
has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations for a
particular area. In order that the City of West Carrollton's Flood Insurance
Rate Map accurately represent the City of West Carrollton boundaries, include
within such notification a copy of a map of the City of West Carrollton
suitable for reproduction, clearly showing the new corporate limits or the new
area for which the City of West Carrollton has assumed or relinquished
floodplain management regulatory authority.
(Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
§ 156.03.11 Data Use and Flood Map Interpretation
   The following guidelines shall apply to the use and interpretation of maps
and other data showing areas of special flood hazard:
   A.   In areas where FEMA has not identified special flood hazard areas, or
in FEMA identified special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation and
floodway data have not been identified, the Floodplain Administrator shall
review and reasonably utilize any other flood hazard data available from a
federal, state, or other source.
   B.   Base flood elevations and floodway boundaries produced on FEMA flood
maps and studies shall take precedence over base flood elevations and floodway
boundaries by any other source that reflect a reduced floodway width and/or
lower base flood elevations. Other sources of data, showing increased base
flood elevations and/or larger floodway areas than are shown on FEMA flood maps
and studies, shall be reasonably used by the Floodplain Administrator.
   C.   When Preliminary Flood Insurance Rate Maps and/or Flood Insurance Study
have been provided by FEMA:
      1.   Upon the issuance of a Letter of Final Determination by the FEMA,
the preliminary flood hazard data shall be used and replace all previously
existing flood hazard data provided from FEMA for the purposes of administering
these regulations.
      2.   Prior to the issuance of a Letter of Final Determination by FEMA,
the use of preliminary flood hazard data shall only be required where no base
flood elevations and/or floodway areas exist or where the preliminary base
flood elevations or floodway areas exceed the base flood elevations and/or
floodway widths in existing flood hazard data provided from FEMA. Such
preliminary data may be subject to change and/or appeal to FEMA.
   D.   The Floodplain Administrator shall make interpretations, where needed,
as to the exact location of the flood boundaries and areas of special flood
hazard. A person contesting the determination of the location of the boundary
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as
provided in Section
156.05.3, Appeals and Variances.
   E.   Where a map boundary showing an area of special flood hazard and field
elevations disagree, the base flood elevations or flood protection elevations
(as found on an elevation profile, floodway data table, established high water
marks, etc.) shall prevail.
(Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
§ 156.03.12 Substantial Damage Determinations
   Damages to structures may result from a variety of causes including flood,
tornado, wind, heavy snow, fire, etc. After such a damage event, the Floodplain
Administrator shall:
   A.   Determine whether damaged structures are located in special flood
hazard areas;
   B.   Conduct substantial damage determinations for damaged structures
located in special flood hazard areas; and
   C.   Make reasonable attempts to notify owners of substantially damaged
structures of the need to obtain a floodplain development permit prior to
repair, rehabilitation, or reconstruction.
   Additionally, the Floodplain Administrator may implement other measures to
assist with the substantial damage determination and subsequent repair process.
These measures include issuing press releases, public service announcements,
and other public information materials related to the floodplain development
permits and repair of damaged structures; coordinating with other federal,
state, and local agencies to assist with substantial damage determinations;
providing owners of damaged structures materials and other information related
to the proper repair of damaged structures in special flood hazard areas; and
assist owners of substantially damaged structures with Increased Cost of
Compliance insurance claims.
(Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
USE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
   The following use and development standards apply to development wholly
within, partially within, or in contact with any special flood hazard area as
established in Section
156.01.6 or 156.03.11(A):
§ 156.04.1 Use Regulations
   A.   Permitted Uses. All uses not otherwise prohibited in this section or
any other applicable land use regulation adopted by City of West Carrollton are
allowed provided they meet the provisions of these regulations.
   B.   Prohibited Uses.
      1.   Private water supply systems in all special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA, permitted under Section 3701 of the Ohio Revised Code.
      2.   Infectious waste treatment facilities in all special flood hazard
areas, permitted under Section 3734 of the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
§ 156.04.2 Water and Wastewater Systems
   The following standards apply to all water supply, sanitary sewerage and
waste disposal systems not otherwise regulated by the Ohio Revised Code:
   A.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems;
   B.   New and replacement sanitary sewerage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and,
   C.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
§ 156.04.3 Subdivisions and Large Developments
   A.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage and are subject to all applicable standards in these regulations;
   B.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage;
   C.   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage; and
   D.   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data
are not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and other proposed developments containing at least 50 lots or 5
acres, whichever is less.
   E.   The applicant shall meet the requirement to submit technical data to
FEMA in Section
156.03.10A.1.d. when a hydrologic and hydraulic analysis is completed that
generates base flood elevations as required by Section 156.04.3D.
(Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
§ 156.04.4 Residential Structures
   A.   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
Where a structure, including its foundation members, is elevated on fill to or
above the base flood elevation, the requirements for anchoring (156.04.4A.) and
construction materials resistant to flood damage (156.04.4B.) are satisfied.
   B.   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed with
methods and materials resistant to flood damage.
   C.   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed with
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment and
other service facilities that are designed and/or elevated so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   D.   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure, including manufactured homes, shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to or above the flood protection elevation. In Zone AO areas
with no elevations specified, the structure shall have the lowest floor,
including basement, elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent
natural grade.
   E.   New construction and substantial improvements, including manufactured
homes, that do not have basements and that are elevated to the flood protection
elevation using pilings, columns, posts, or solid foundation perimeter walls
with openings sufficient to allow unimpeded movement of flood waters may have
an enclosure below the lowest floor provided the enclosure meets the following
standards:
      1.   Be used only for the parking of vehicles, building access, or
storage; and
      2.   Be designed and certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls
by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters; or
      3.   Have a minimum of two openings on different walls having a total net
area not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area, and
the bottom of all such openings being no higher than one foot above grade. The
openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other coverings or devices
provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
   F.   Manufactured homes shall be affixed to a permanent foundation and
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.
   G.   Repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination
that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's
continued designation as a historic structure and is the minimum necessary to
preserve the historic character and design of the structure, shall be exempt
from the development standards of Section
156.04.4.
   H.   In AO Zones, new construction and substantial improvement shall have
adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around
and away from the structure.
(Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
§ 156.04.5 Nonresidential Structures
   A.   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or other nonresidential structure shall meet the requirements of
Section
156.04.4 A. - C. and E. - G.
   B.   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or other non-residential structure shall either have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated to or above the
level of the flood protection elevation; or, together with attendant utility
and sanitary facilities, shall meet all of the following standards:
      1.   Be dry floodproofed so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water to the level of the flood
protection elevation;
      2.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and,
      3.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect,
through the use of a Federal Emergency Management Floodproofing Certificate,
that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with Section
156.04.5B.1. and 2.
   C.   In Zone AO areas with no elevations specified, the structure shall have
the lowest floor, including basement, elevated at least two feet above the
highest adjacent natural grade.
(Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
§ 156.04.6 Accessory Structures
   Relief to the elevation or dry floodproofing standards may be granted for
accessory structures containing no more than 600 square feet. Such structures
must meet the following standards:
   A.   They shall not be used for human habitation;
   B.   They shall be constructed of flood resistant materials;
   C.   They shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of flood waters;
   D.   They shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
   E.   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall be
elevated or floodproofed to or above the level of the flood protection
elevation; and
   F.   They shall meet the opening requirements of Section
156.04.4E.3.
(Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
130D West Carrollton - Land Usage § 156.04.9
§ 156.04.7 Recreational Vehicles
   Recreational vehicles must meet at least one of the following standards:
   A.   They shall not be located on sites in special flood hazard areas for
more than 180 days, or
   B.   They must be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or
   C.   They must meet all standards of Section
156.04.4.
(Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
§ 156.04.8 Above Ground Gas or Liquid Storage Tanks
   All above ground gas or liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent
flotation or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic
loads.
(Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
§ 156.04.9 Assurance of Flood Carrying Capacity
    Pursuant to the purpose and methods of reducing flood damage stated in
these regulations, the following additional standards are adopted to assure
that the reduction of the flood carrying capacity of watercourses is minimized:
   A.   Development in Floodways
      1.   In floodway areas, development shall cause no increase in flood
levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge. Prior to issuance of
a floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a hydrologic and
hydraulic analysis, conducted by a registered professional engineer,
demonstrating that the proposed development would not result in any increase in
the base flood elevation; or
      2.   Development in floodway areas causing increases in the base flood
elevation may be permitted provided all of the following are completed by the
applicant:
      a.   Meet the requirements to submit technical data in Section
 156.03.10A.;
      b.   An evaluation of alternatives which would not result in increased
base flood elevations and an explanation why these alternatives are not
feasible;
      c.   Certification that no structures are located in areas which would be
impacted by the increased base flood elevation;
      d.   Documentation of individual legal notices to all impacted property
owners within and outside the community, explaining the impact of the proposed
action on their property; and
      e.   Concurrence of the City Manager of the City of West Carrollton and
the Chief Executive Officer of any other communities impacted by the proposed
actions.
   B.   Development in Riverine Areas with Base Flood Elevations but No
Floodways
      1.   In riverine special flood hazard areas identified by FEMA where base
flood elevation data are provided but no floodways have been designated, the
cumulative effect of any proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, shall not increase the base flood
elevation more than 1.0 (one) foot at any point. Prior to issuance of a
floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a hydrologic and
hydraulic analysis, conducted by a registered professional engineer,
demonstrating that this standard has been met; or,
      2.   Development in riverine special flood hazard areas identified by
FEMA where base flood elevation data are provided but no floodways have been
designated causing more than one foot increase in the base flood elevation may
be permitted provided all of the following are completed by the applicant:
         a.   An evaluation of alternatives which would result in an increase
of one foot or less of the base flood elevation and an explanation why these
alternatives are not feasible;
         b.   Section
156.04.9A., items a. and c.-e..
   C.   Alterations of a Watercourse. For the purpose of these regulations, a
watercourse is altered when any change occurs within its banks. The extent of
the banks shall be established by a field determination of the "bankfull
stage." The field determination of "bankfull stage" shall be based on methods
presented in Chapter 7 of the USDA Forest Service General Technical Report RM-
245, Stream Channel Reference Sites: An Illustrated Guide to Field Technique or
other applicable publication available from a Federal, State, or other
authoritative source. For all proposed developments that alter a watercourse,
the following standards apply:
      1.   The bankfull flood carrying capacity of the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse shall not be diminished. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a description of the
extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of the
proposed development, and certification by a registered professional engineer
that the bankfull flood carrying Capacity of the watercourse will not be
diminished.
      2.   Adjacent communities, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and the Ohio
Department of Natural Resources, Division of Water, must be notified prior to
any alteration or relocation of a watercourse. Evidence of such notification
must be submitted to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      3.   The applicant shall be responsible for providing the necessary
maintenance for the altered or relocated portion of said watercourse so that
the flood carrying capacity will not be diminished. The Floodplain
Administrator may require the permit holder to enter into an agreement with the
City of West Carrollton specifying the maintenance responsibilities. If an
agreement is required, it shall be made a condition of the floodplain
development permit.
      4.   The applicant shall meet the requirements to submit technical data
in Section
156.03.10A.1.c. when an alteration of a watercourse results in the relocation
or elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts.
(Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
APPEALS AND VARIANCES 
§ 156.05.1 Appeals Board Established
   A.   The Board of Zoning Appeals, as established by the City, shall hear and
decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   B.   All meetings of the Appeals Board shall be open to the public except
that the Board may deliberate in executive sessions as part of quasijudicial
hearings in accordance with law. The Appeals Board shall keep minutes of its
proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each question and shall keep
records of all official actions. Records of the Appeals Board shall be kept and
filed in the Civic Center, 300 E. Central Ave., West Carrollton, Ohio.
(Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
§ 156.05.2 Powers and Duties
   A.   The Appeals Board shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
there is an error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by
the Floodplain Administrator in the administration or enforcement of these
regulations.
   B.   Authorize variances in accordance with Section
156.05.4 of these regulations.
(Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
§ 156.05.3 Appeals
   Any person affected by any notice and order, or other official action of the
Floodplain Administrator may request and shall be granted a hearing on the
matter before the Appeals Board provided that such person shall file, within 10
days of the date of such notice and order, or other official action, a brief
statement of the grounds for such hearing or for the mitigation of any item
appearing on any order of the Floodplain Administrator's decision. Such appeal
shall be in writing, signed by the applicant, and be filed with the Floodplain
Administrator. Upon receipt of the appeal, the Floodplain Administrator shall
transmit said notice and all pertinent information on which the Floodplain
Administrator's decision was made to the Appeals Board.
   Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the Appeals Board shall fix a
reasonable time for the appeal, give notice in writing to parties in interest,
and decide the appeal within a reasonable time after it is submitted. (Ord.
3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
§ 156.05.4 Variances
   Variances shall be granted in accordance with the standards set forth in §
154.06.01 of the Zoning Code.
(Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04; Ord. 3677. Passed 8-25-20.)
§ 156.05.5 Procedure at Hearings
   A.   All testimony shall be given under oath.
   B.   A complete record of the proceedings shall be kept, except confidential
deliberations of the Board, but including all documents presented and a
verbatim record of the testimony of all witnesses.
   C.   The applicant shall proceed first to present evidence and testimony in
support of the appeal or variance.
   D.   The administrator may present evidence or testimony in opposition to
the appeal or variance.
   E.   All witnesses shall be subject to cross- examination by the adverse
party or their counsel.
   F.   Evidence that is not admitted may be proffered and shall become part of
the record for appeal.
   G.   The Board shall issue subpoenas upon written request for the attendance
of witnesses. A reasonable deposit to cover the cost of issuance and service
shall be collected in advance.
   H.   The Board shall prepare conclusions of fact supporting its decision.
The decision may be announced at the conclusion of the hearing and thereafter
issued in writing or the decision may be issued in writing within a reasonable
time after the hearing. (Ord. 3280. Passed 10- 26-04.)
§ 156.05.6 Appeal to the Court
   Those aggrieved by the decision of the Appeals Board may appeal such
decision to the Montgomery County Court of Common Pleas, as provided in Chapter
2506 of the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 156.06.1 Compliance Required
   A.   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, erected, constructed,
reconstructed, repaired, extended, converted, enlarged or altered without full
compliance with the terms of these regulations and all other applicable
regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of these regulations,
unless specifically exempted from filing for a development permit as stated in
Section
156.03.9.
   B.   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit shall be a violation
of these regulations and shall be punishable in accordance with Section
156.06.3.
   C.   Floodplain development permits issued on the basis of plans and
applications approved by the Floodplain Administrator authorize only the use,
and arrangement, set forth in such approved plans and applications or
amendments thereto. Use, arrangement, or construction contrary to that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of these regulations and punishable in
accordance with Section
156.06.3. (Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
§ 156.06.2 Notice of Violation.
   Whenever the Floodplain Administrator determines that there has been a
violation of any provision of these regulations, he shall give notice of such
violation to the person responsible therefore and order compliance with these
regulations as hereinafter provided. Such notice and order shall:
   A.   Be put in writing on an appropriate form;
   B.   Include a list of violations, referring to the section or sections of
these regulations that have been violated, and order remedial action which, if
taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of these regulations;
   C.   Specify a reasonable time for performance;
   D.   Advise the owner, operator, or occupant of the right to appeal;
   E.   Be served on the owner, occupant, or agent in person. However, this
notice and order shall be deemed to be properly served upon the owner,
occupant, or agent if a copy thereof is sent by registered or certified mail to
the person's last known mailing address, residence, or place of business, and/
or a copy is posted in a conspicuous place in or on the dwelling affected.
(Ord. 3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
§ 156.06.3 Violations and Penalties.
   Violation of the provisions of these regulations or failure to comply with
any of its requirements shall be deemed to be a strict liability offense, and
shall constitute a first degree misdemeanor. Any person who violates these
regulations or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon
conviction thereof be fined or imprisoned as provided by the laws of the City
of West Carrollton. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City of West
Carrollton from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation. The City of West Carrollton shall prosecute any violation
of these regulations in accordance with the penalties stated herein. (Ord.
3280. Passed 10-26-04.)
STORMWATER RUNOFF, SOIL EROSION, AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL
§ 156.33 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of §§
156.33 through 156.40 is to establish standards, principles, and procedures to
regulate construction-oriented, earth-disturbing site development activities
which cause or may cause adverse impacts of accelerated surface water runoff,
soil erosion, and sediment deposition by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Permit development without increasing the flooding of other lands;
   (B)   Reduce damage to receiving streams and storm drainage systems and
impairment of their capacity which may be caused by increases in the quantity
and rate of water and sediment discharged;
   (C)   Preserve the rights and options of all property owners and assure the
long-term adequacy of storm drainage systems;
   (D)   Prevent destruction of the natural features, soils, and vegetative
cover of sites in the community; and
   (E)   Promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
(Ord. 2589, passed 5-26-87)
§ 156.34 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§
156.33 through 156.40 the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVING AGENT. The City Engineer or his designee.
   CHANNEL. A natural stream that conveys water; a ditch or channel excavated
for the flow of water.
   CLEARING. The clearing, grubbing, scalping, removal of trees and stumps, and
removing and disposition of all vegetation and debris within the site,
including the conditions resulting therefrom.
   CONSTRUCTION. The erection, alteration, repair, renovation, demolition, or
removal of any building or structure; and the clearing, stripping, excavating,
filling, grading, and regulation of sites in connection therewith.
   CUT. An excavation. The difference between a point on the original ground
and a designated point  of lower elevation on the final grade. Also, the
material removed in excavation.
   DEBRIS. Loose refuse or earth material not suitable for use as presently
situated or constituted as  determined by the approving agent.
   DEVELOPER. Any individual, subdivider, firm, association, syndicate,
partnership, corporation, trust, or any other legal entity commencing
proceedings under §§
156.33 - 156.40 to effect the development of land for himself or for another.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not  limited to, buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations.
   DEVELOPMENT AREA. Any contiguous area owned by one person or developed as a
single unit  included within the scope of these regulations, upon which earth-
disturbing activities are planned or under way.
   DITCH. An open channel with intermittent flow, either dug or natural, for
the purpose of drainage or irrigation. (See STREAM, DRAINAGEWAY, and GRASSED
WATERWAY).
   DRAINAGEWAY. An area of concentrated water flow other than a river, stream,
ditch, or grassed  waterway.
   DUMPING. The grading, pushing, piling, throwing, unloading, or placing of
earth material.
   EARTH-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any grading, excavation, filling, or other
alteration of the earth's surface where natural or man-made ground cover is
destroyed and which may result in or contribute to erosion and sediment
pollution.
   EARTH MATERIAL. Soil, sediment, rock, sand, gravel, and organic material or
residue associated with or attached to the soil.
   EROSION. The wearing away of the land surface by running water, wind, ice,
or other geological agents, including such processes as gravitational creep;
detachment and movement of soil or rock fragments by wind, water, ice, or
gravity.
      (1)   ACCELERATED EROSION. Erosion much more rapid than normal, natural,
or geologic erosion, primarily as a result of the influence of the activities
of man.
      (2)   GULLY EROSION. A type of erosion caused by water accumulating in
narrow channels and over short periods during and immediately after rainfall or
snow or ice melt activity which removes soil such that channels become
considerably deeper than what would otherwise result by normal smoothing or
tilling operations.
      (3)   NATURAL EROSION or GEOLOGICAL EROSION. The wearing away of the
earth's surface bywater, ice, or other natural agents under natural
environmental conditions of climate, vegetation, and the like, undisturbed by
man.
      (4)   NORMAL EROSION. The gradual erosion of land used by man which does
not greatly exceed natural erosion.
      (5)    RILL EROSION. An erosion process in which numerous small channels
only several  inches deep are formed; occurs mainly on recently disturbed
soils.
      (6)    SHEET EROSION. The removal of a fairly uniform layer of soil from
the land surface  by wind or runoff water.
   EXCAVATION. Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock, or any other similar
material is dug into, cut, quarried, uncovered, removed, displaced, relocated,
or bulldozed and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
   FILL Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock, or any other material is
placed, pushed, dumped,  pulled, transported, or moved to a new location above
the natural surface of the ground or on top of the stripped surface and shall
include the conditions resulting therefrom; the difference in elevation between
a point on the original ground and a designated point of higher elevation on
the final grade; the material used to make a fill.
   FINISHED GRADE. The final grade or elevation of the ground surface
conforming to the approved grading plan.
   FLOODPLAIN SCOUR. The abrading and wearing away of the nearly level land
situated on either side of a channel due to overflow flooding.
   GRADING. The stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling, or any combination
thereof of earth-disturbing activity, including land in its cut or filled
conditions.
   GRASSED WATERWAY. A broad and shallow natural course or constructed channel
with erosion- resistant grasses or similar herbaceous cover which is used to
conduct surface water drainage runoff at non-erosive velocities.
   HAZARD. Any danger to public health, welfare, and safety including exposure
to risk or damage to property or liability for personal injury; or risk of harm
to land, air, or water resulting in environmental degradation. Hazards can
include flooding and ponding, compaction and settling, landslides, earthquakes,
toxic chemicals, radiation, fire, and disease.
   MULCHING. The application of suitable materials on the soil surface to
conserve moisture, hold soil in place, and aid in establishing plant cover.
   NATURAL VEGETATION. Any ground cover in its original state before
commencement of earth-disturbing activities.
   NUISANCE. A public nuisance as known by common law or in equity
jurisprudence.
   PERMANENT VEGETATION. Producing long-term vegetative cover, for example,
bluegrass, tall fescue, crown vetch, and the like.
   PERMITTEE. Any person to whom approval of a site plan according and pursuant
to this standard is granted, or who is subject to inspection under it.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, agency,
unincorporated association, municipal corporation, county, or state agency
within the state, the federal government, or any combination thereof.
   PLAN. As used in this standard, the runoff control and sediment abatement
plan.
   PLANS. Profiles, typical cross sections, working drawings, and supplemental
drawings of site, grading, drainage, and runoff and sedimentation control
plans, vicinity map, soil map, and other plans as approved, or exact
reproductions thereof, which show the location, character, dimensions, and
details of the work.
   POLLUTION. The man-induced alteration of the chemical, physical, and
biological integrity of air and water resources.
   PUBLIC WATERS. Those waters within lakes (except private ponds and lakes on
single properties), rivers, streams, ditches, or waters leaving property on
which surface water originates.
   RUNOFF. The portion of rainfall, melted snow, or irrigation water that flows
across the ground surface and eventually is returned to streams.
      (1)   ACCELERATED RUNOFF. Increased rate and volume of runoff due to less
permeable surface primarily caused by urbanization.
      (2)   PEAK RATE OF RUNOFF.  The maximum rate of runnoff for any 24-hour
storm of a given frequency.
   SEDIMENT. Solid material, both mineral and organic, that is in suspension,
is being transported, or has been moved from its site or origin by air, water,
gravity, or ice, and has come to rest on the earth's surface either above or
below water.
   SEDIMENT BASIN. A barrier, dam, or other suitable detention facility built
across an area of water flow to settle and retain sediment carried by surface
drainage runoff waters.
   SEDIMENT POLLUTION. Failure to use management or conservation practices to
abate wind or water erosion of the sail or to abate the degradation of waters
by soil sediment in conjunction with land grading, excavating, filling, or
other soil-disturbing activities.
   SITE. Any lot or parcel of land or a series of lots or parcels of land
adjoining or contiguous or joined together under one ownership where clearing,
stripping, grading, or excavating is performed.
   SLOPE. The face of an embankment or cut section; any ground whose surface
makes an angle with the plane of the horizon. Slopes are usually expressed in a
percentage based upon vertical difference in feet per 100 feet of horizontal
distance.
   SLOUGHING. A downward movement of an extended layer of soil over a slope
frequently resulting  from the undermining action of surface water runoff or
the earth-disturbing activity of man.
   SOIL. All earth material of whatever origin that overlies bedrock, and may
include the decomposed zone of bedrock which can be readily excavated by
mechanical equipment.
   SOIL LOSS. Soil moved from a given site by the forces of erosion, and
redeposited at another location.
   STEEP SLOPE. A slope over 15% grade, which is characterized by increased
runoff, erosion, and sediment hazards.
   STORM FREQUENCY. The average period of time in years within which a storm of
a given duration and intensity can be expected to be equaled or exceeded.
   STREAM. A body of water running or flowing on the earth's surface or channel
in which such flow occurs. Flow is continuous or seasonally intermittent.
   STRIPPING. Any activity which removes or significantly disturbs the
vegetative surface cover.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of any parcel of land shown as a unit or as
contiguous units on the last preceding tax roll, into two or more parcels,
sites, or lots, any one of which is less than five acres for the  purpose,
whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership, provided, however, that
the division or partition of land into parcels of more than five acres not
involving any new streets or easements of access, and the sale or exchange of
parcels between adjoining lot owners, where the sale or exchange does not
create additional building sites, shall be excepted; or the improvement of one
or more parcels of land for residential, commercial, or industrial structures
or groups of structures involving the division or allocation of land for the
opening, widening, or extension of any street or streets, except private
streets serving industrial structures; the division or allocation of land as
open spaces for the common use by owners, occupants, or lease holders or as
easements for the extension and maintenance of public sewer, water, storm
drainage, or other public facilities.
   SUBSOIL. That part of the soil below the surface soil or plow layer.
   SURFACE SOIL. The uppermost part (five to eight inches) of the soil commonly
stirred by tillage  implements, or its equivalent in uncultivated soils.
   SWALE. A low lying stretch of vegetated land which gathers and carries
surface water runoff at a reduced rate of flow and conveys it downstream at
less erosive velocities.
   TEMPORARY VEGETATION. Short-term vegetative cover used to stabilize the soil
surface until final grading and installation of permanent vegetation (for
example, oats, rye or wheat).
   WATERCOURSE. Any natural or artificial waterway (including, but not limited
to, streams, rivers, creeks, ditches, channels, canals, conduits, culverts,
drains, drainageways, waterways, gullies, ravines, or washes) in which waters
flow in a definite direction or course, either continuously or intermittently;
and including any area adjacent thereto which is subject to inundation by
reason of overflow of flood water.
(Ord. 2589, passed 5-26-87)
§ 156.35 SCOPE AND INTENT.
   (A)   These standards shall apply to both the development and redevelopment
of land proposed for the following types of land uses.
      (1)   Land used or being developed for residential, commercial, office,
or industrial purposes, or other non-farm uses.
      (2)   Land used or being developed for recreation, wildlife, or natural
purposes.
         (a)   Runoff or sediment control will be required for the development
of a public facility, undertaken by a government agency, in accordance with an
approved control policy.
   (B)   Any person or persons proposing to develop or redevelop land for any
of the uses listed above shall design and implement a site grading and drainage
development plan which will:
      (1)   Yield quantities of surface water runoff from the development site
at rates which are the same as or less than those before development occurred
and result in rates of gross erosion as specified in division (E)(3) below.
      (2)   Not result in increasing current potentials for sedimentation of
lands, siltation of waters, and flooding of watercourses that are at lower
elevations off- site.
   (C)   Changes subject to regulation under this section shall not be made in
the existing natural surface composition or subsurface configuration of any
land proposed for development or redevelopment within the city for land uses
specified under division (C)(1) below, nor shall approval of a site development
plan be given:
      (1)   Unless a determination is made by the approving agent that
implementation of an approved site grading and drainage development plan would
not cause runoff, erosion, and sediment impacts that would be harmful or
damaging to the lands and waters off-site; or
      (2)   Until a plan required according to division (F) below for
minimizing the harmful and damaging potentials of runoff, erosion, and sediment
impacts anticipated to result from implementation of a proposed site grading
and drainage development plan has been approved by the approving agent.
   (D)   Development situations may exist such that the development will have
none of the harmful effects associated with increased runoff rates and volumes,
or sediment deposition. The developments are eligible for a waiver from these
standards; however, the waiver applies only to the following requirements and
may have specific conditions attached by the approving agent.
      (1)   The preparation of plans, maps, or information specified in
division (F) below.
      (2)   The installation of sediment abatement control devices until such
time as site inspection indicates they may be necessary.
      (3)   Controlling runoff to predevelopment conditions as in this division
(D), except that stormwater runoff must be controlled to the maximum volume and
minimum rate feasible for the site as determined by the approving agent.
   (E)   The request for a waiver shall be in writing and shall include
sufficient detail to determine that granting a waiver will not be detrimental
to abutting properties or to the drainage system. However, the waiver does not
in any way imply a relaxation of any of the other standards in this regulation,
including the requirement for adequate on-site drainage, the ability to accept
runoff from land tributary to the development, or reasonable control of soil
erosion and sediment.
   (F)   Development activities for which waivers may be considered may include
but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Single-family residential developments involving improvement of an
individual lot in a previously approved subdivision.
      (2)   Modifications to, or redevelopment of, an existing development
which will not result in additional impervious areas.
      (3)   Minor additions to existing property, such as driveways, sidewalks,
patios, and the like.
(Ord. 2589, passed 5-26-87)
§ 156.36 STORMWATER RUNOFF CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Each development shall provide for the on-site or off-site detention
of excess stormwater runoff resulting from that development. For the purpose of
this standard, EXCESS STORMWATER RUNOFF shall include all increases in
stormwater resulting from: an increase in the impervious surface of the site,
including all additions of buildings, roads, and parking lots; changes in soil
absorption caused by compaction during development; modifications in contours,
including the filling or draining of small depressional areas, alterations of
drainageways, or regrading of slopes; destruction of forest; alteration of
drainageways or installation of collection systems to intercept street flows or
to replace swales or other drainageways; or the alteration of subsurface flows,
including any groundwater dewatering or diversion practices such as curtain
drains, compared with the site in its natural state.
   (B)   Any foreseeable increase in the rates and volume of site surface
drainage water runoff caused by site development shall be controlled so that
post-development peak rate of runoff does not exceed that of predevelopment for
all 24-hour storms between a one-year frequency and the critical storm
frequency as determined below. A recommended method which may be used to
determine changes in rates and volumes of runoff is presented in the U.S.
Department of Agriculture, Engineering Division of the Soil Conservation
Service (SCS), Urban Hydrology for Small Watersheds, Technical Release No. 55
(Washington, D.C.: USDA, January 1975), and the Ohio Supplement (April 1981).
To find the critical storm frequency for which additional control will be
needed:
      (1)   Determine the percent increase in runoff volume for a one-year
frequency, 24-hour storm; and
      (2)   Determine the critical storm frequency for which additional control
is needed by using the percent increase in runoff volume, derived in division
(B)(1) above, in the table below:
Percent Increase in Runoff Volume from a One-Year Frequency, 24-Hour Storm
Equal to or Greater Than Less Than (Percent) Critical Storm Frequency (Years)
Percent
Equal to or Greater Than Less Than (Percent) Critical Storm Frequency (Years)
Percent
--                       10                  1
10                       20                  2
20                       50                  5
50                       100                 10
100                      250                 25
250                      500                 50
500                      --                  100
 
   (C)   The peak rate of runoff from the critical storm occurring over the
development shall not exceed the peak rate of runoff from a one-year frequency
storm occurring over the same area under predevelopment conditions. Storms of
less frequent occurrence (longer return period) than the critical storm shall
have peak rate of runoff not greater than for the same storm under
predevelopment conditions. As an example, if the total volume is shown to be
increased by 35%, the critical storm is a five-year storm. The peak rate of
runoff for all storms up to this intensity shall be controlled so as not to
exceed the peak rate of runoff from a one-year frequency storm under
predevelopment conditions in the area. The runoff from a more intense storm
need only be controlled so as not to exceed the predevelopment peak rate from
the same frequency of storm.
   (D)   Design regulations. All detention facilities and improvements required
by this section shall comply with the following regulations.
      (1)   Storage volumes. Storage may be provided by wet or dry bottom
basins or reservoirs or rooftop storage facilities.
      (2)   Maximum depth. The maximum planned depth of stormwater stored
should be five feet unless site conditions lend themselves to greater depths.
      (3)   Outlet control structures. Outlet control structures shall be
designed as simply as possible and shall operate automatically. They will be
designed to limit discharges into existing or planned downstream channels or
conduits so as not to exceed the existing flow from the site in its natural
condition.
      (4)   Spillway. Emergency overflow facilities shall be provided unless
inflow is controlled to divert flows when the basin is at capacity.
      (5)   Dry bottom basin. For basins designed without permanent pools:
         (a)   Interior drainage. Provisions must be made to facilitate
interior drainage, to include the provision of natural grades to outlet
structures, longitudinal and transverse grades to perimeter drainage
facilities, or the installation of subsurface drains.
         (b)   Multipurpose features. These may be designed to serve secondary
purposes for recreation, open space, or other types of use which will not be
adversely affected by occasional or intermittent flooding.
         (c)   Cleaning. The basins shall be designed for periodic cleaning and
removal of sediments, which shall be removed from the site or otherwise
disposed of in an appropriate manner.
         (d)   Slopes. Approach slopes should be 6:1 but not more than 3:1.
      (6)   Wet basins. For basins designed with permanent pools:
         (a)   Depth for fish. If fish are used to help keep the basin clean,
at least one-quarter of the area of the permanent pool must have a minimum
depth of ten feet.
         (b)   Facilities for emptying. For emergency purposes, cleaning, or
shoreline maintenance, facilities shall be provided or plans prepared for the
use of auxiliary equipment to permit emptying and drainage.
         (c)   Pollution abatement. Aeration facilities may be required when
the quality of the influent and detention time would result in a lowering of
dissolved oxygen content in the basin.
         (d)   Slopes. Approach slopes should be 6:1 but not more than 3:1 and
shall be at least four to six feet wide and slope gently toward the basin. The
side slopes shall be of nonerosive material with a slope of 1:1 or flatter. The
ledge shall be four to six feet wide and slope gently toward the shore to
prevent people or objects from sliding into deep water. There shall be a
freeboard of 12 to 18 inches above the high-water elevation on all retention
basins. Alternate designs for side slopes may be considered under special
circumstances where good engineering practice is demonstrated.
         (e)   Cleaning. The basins shall be designed to include sediment traps
in all inlets. Sediment traps shall be designed to permit periodic cleaning and
maintenance. A basin maintenance plan shall be developed to insure that the
design depths of the basin will remain over time.
      (7)   Building regulations.
         (a)   Rooftop storage. Detention storage requirements may be met
either in total or in part by detention on flat roofs. Design specifications of
the detention shall be a part of the application for a zoning certificate.
These specifications shall include the depth and volume of storage, design of
outlet devices and downdrains, elevations of overflow scuppers, design loadings
for the roof structure, and emergency overflow provisions. Rooftop storage
shall not be permitted to drain directly into sanitary sewers or streets.
         (b)   Parking lot storage. Paved parking lots may be designed to
provide temporary detention storage of stormwater on a portion of their
surfaces. Outlets shall be designed to empty the stored waters slowly, and
depths of storage must be limited so as to prevent damage to parked vehicles,
and storage areas shall be posted with warning signs. Maximum recommended depth
is six inches. Alternate designs may be considered under special circumstances
where good engineering practice is demonstrated.
         (c)   Detention storage. All or a portion of the detention storage may
also be provided in underground detention facilities.
(Ord. 2589, passed 5-26-87)
§ 156.37 SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   In order to prevent both soil erosion and sedimentation, a soil
erosion and sedimentation control plan shall be required whenever a development
will involve any clearing, grading, transporting, or other form of disturbing
land by the movement of earth.
   (B)   Sediment deposition caused by accelerated stormwater runoff over a
development site or by accelerated erosion due to the sloughing or sliding of
surface soil that has been exposed by grading, dumping, stockpiling, or any
other excavation-related earth disturbances shall be retarded wherever possible
and confined to within the boundaries of the development site.
   (C)   The accumulative monthly predicted amounts of gross soil loss
anticipated from sheet and rill erosion shall be abated to within an average
annual rate of 15 tons per acre during the first year, ten tons per acre for
any year thereafter of site development activities, and to within five tons per
acre per year after site development is completed. The Universal Soil Loss
Equation as referenced within the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Soil
Conservation Service (SCS), Water Management and Sediment Control for
Urbanizing Areas (Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office, June
1978), or other approved methods shall be used to predict average annual rates
of gross soil loss by month from a development site.
   (D)   Specifically, the following protection shall be provided for all
disturbed areas: minimize velocities of water runoff, maximize protection of
disturbed areas from stormwater runoff, and retain sedimentation within the
development site as early as possible following disturbances. A list of major
problem areas for erosion and sedimentation control follows. For each one, the
purpose of requiring control is described. Soil erosion and sedimentation
control measures for all such areas shall be provided with a view toward
achieving the specific purpose listed below for which a control plan is
required:
      (1)   Erodible slopes: prevent detachment and transportation of soil
particles from slope.
      (2)   Streams, streambeds, streambanks, bodies of water, lake shorelines:
prevent detachment and transportation of soil particles.
      (3)   Drainageways: prevent detachment and transportation of soil
particles (which would otherwise deposit in streams, bodies of water, or
wetlands); promote deposit or sediment loads (traversing these areas) before
these reach bodies of water.
      (4)   Land adjacent to streams, ponds, lakes, and wetlands: prevent
detachment and transportation of soil particles.
      (5)   Enclosed drainage structure: prevent sedimentation in structure,
erosion at outfall of system, and deposit of sediment loads within system or
beyond it.
      (6)   Large flat surface areas (unpaved): prevent detachment of soil
particles and their off-site transportation.
      (7)   Impervious surfaces: prevent the detachment and transportation of
soil (in response to an increase in the rate or volume of runoff of the site or
its concentration caused by impervious surfaces).
      (8)   Borrow and stockpile areas: divert runoff from face of slopes which
are exposed in the excavation process; convey runoff in stabilized channels to
stable disposal points; leave borrow areas and stockpiles in stable condition.
      (9)   Adjacent properties: prevent their erosion or deposition with
sediment.
   (E)   The Appendix presents graphic examples of erosion and sedimentation
control measures and indicates, by asterisk, when any such measure may
effectively control the problem area. One or more of each such asterisked
measure shall suffice to comply with the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 2589, passed 5-26-87)
§ 156.38 RUNOFF CONTROL AND SEDIMENT ABATEMENT PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any person seeking approval of a development proposal shall:
      (1)   Provide mapped information about the location and vicinity of the
area proposed for development; and
      (2)   Furnish three types of information and maps about the proposed land
development and site location: an existing characteristics inventory, a
predevelopment conditions assessment, and an abatement control plan.
         (a)   Minor additions referenced in division §
156.35(D) below may be exempted from this requirement by the approving agent.
   (B)   Specifically, all proposed land developments shall have plans or maps
of an appropriate scale that depict existing and proposed improvements,
including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Structures, streets, sidewalks, driveways, parking lots, storm
drainage systems and appurtenances, utilities, poles, and the like; and
      (2)   Elevations, contour lines, inverts of sewers, and drainage
facilities, and the like.
      (3)   Location of the boundary of the 100-year floodplain.
   (C)   Abatement control plan content requirements.
      (1)   A runoff control and sediment abatement plan shall identify how
accelerated surface water runoff, increased erosion, and sediment deposition
induced by site development are to be controlled to within the abatement
standards of §§
156.36 and 156.37.
      (2)   All proposed controls are to be designed in accordance with methods
and techniques set-forth in the SCS texts cited in §§
156.36 and 156.37 or others approved by the City.
      (3)   A runoff control and sediment abatement plan shall be comprised of,
but not limited to, the following information:
         (a)   A map rendered on the base which indicates the number, types,
dimensions, and locations of all runoff, erosion, or sediment control devices
to be utilized either temporarily or permanently on a development site;
         (b)   All pertinent computations made to arrive at the final
dimensions of each control device shall be presented along with plan and
section view drawings of the same rendered at an appropriate design scale to be
agreed upon between the applicant and the approving agent; and
         (c)   Schedules detailing the timing for the installation and
maintenance of each control device. (Ord. 2589, passed 5-26-87)
§ 156.39 ADMINISTRATION AND APPEALS.
   (A)   The approving agent shall review all applications for zoning
certificates, subdivisions, and planned unit developments to determine that the
requirements of §§
156.33 through 156.40 have been satisfied.
   (B)   The costs of engineering review for site grading and drainage
development plans shall be covered by a plan review fee. The plan review fee
shall be paid by the applicant to the City at the time the final plans have
been approved by the City. The fee shall be as set forth in Section
37.28 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton.
   (C)   The provisions of §§
156.33 through
156.40 may be varied as follows:
      (1)   The approving agent may waive those requirements as specified in
division (D)(4) below.
      (2)   As part of the review and approval process of subdivisions or
planned unit developments, the Planning Commission has the authority to vary
the provisions of §§
156.33 through
156.40.
      (3)   All other appeals and requests for variances from the provisions of
§§
156.33 through
156.40 shall be heard by the Board of Zoning Appeals in accordance with the
procedures set forth in §
154.06.01 of the Zoning Code.
(Ord. 2589, passed 5-26-87; amend. Ord. 2761, passed 6-26-90; amend. Ord. 2875,
passed 9-22-92; amend. Ord. 3436, passed 12-22-09; amend. Ord. 3677, passed 8-
25-20)
§ 156.40 COMPLIANCE RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Performance liability. No provision of this standard shall limit,
increase or otherwise affect the liabilities of the permittee nor impose any
liability upon the City not otherwise imposed by law.
   (B)   Operations and management. During site development, a permittee is
responsible for:
      (1)   Carrying out all provisions as approved in the plan and required by
this standard;
      (2)   Promptly removing all soil, miscellaneous debris, or other
materials that may become spilled, dumped, or otherwise deposited on any public
thoroughfares during transport to and from the development site; and
      (3)   Taking precautions to inhibit the deposition of sediment into any
sewer system or natural watercourse.
   (C)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The developer's engineer shall be required to inspect all drainage
facilities under construction and certify their compliance with approved plans,
and in addition, the City may inspect all drainage facilities while under
construction. When facilities are not constructed according to approved plans,
the City has the explicit authority to compel compliance and require correction
of any situations which are not according to the approved plans.
      (2)   Site development operations shall be subject to inspections by the
City to determine whether a site development plan is being implemented in
compliance with provisions of this standard and any plan approval conditions.
      (3)   After each inspection the inspector shall complete a site
development status report. If the inspector finds that operations are being
conducted by a permittee in violation of an approved plan or provisions of this
standard, a stop-work order may be issued at that time.
   (D)   Ownership and maintenance. Permanent runoff control and sediment
abatement installation which are to be privately owned and maintained by an
individual or group of property owners shall be:
      (1)   Designed and constructed by the permittee with easements sufficient
to allow adequate access for inspections and corrective actions, if necessary,
by the City;
      (2)   Regularly inspected by the City to ensure privately-owned
installations are being properly maintained, and, if not, shall be repaired by
them at the expense of the responsible owner; and
      (3)   Maintained as installed by the permittee according to the approved
design and not be altered unless approved by the City.
(Ord. 2589, passed 5-26-87)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor of the first degree. Any person
who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements
(including violations of conditions of and safeguards established in connection
with conditions) shall on conviction thereof be fined or imprisoned as provided
by the laws of the City. Each day such violation continues shall be considered
a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City from taking
such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violations.
(Ord. 2278, passed 8-25-81; amend. Ord. 2582, passed 3- 24-87)
APPENDIX: EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL MEASURES
To view the tables in the appendix, please see the printed copy of your code of
ordinances.
CHAPTER 157: FEES FOR LAND USAGE APPLICATIONS
Section
157.01   Fees for applications
§ 157.01 FEES FOR APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Fees for applications presented to the City are hereby established and
are set forth in Section
37.29 of Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of West Carrollton.
(Ord. 3436. Passed 12-22-09.)
CHAPTER 158: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
Scope and Application
158.01   General
158.02   Applicability
158.03   Liability
Administration and Enforcement
158.04   Duties and powers of the code official
158.05   Approval
158.06   Violations
158.07   Notices and orders
158.08   Unsafe structures and equipment
158.09   Emergency measures
158.10   Stop work order
158.11   Demolition
158.12   Right to appeal
158.13   Property maintenance re-inspection fee
158.14   Definitions
General Requirements
158.15   General
158.16   Exterior property areas
158.17   Swimming pools, spas and hot tubs
158.18   Exterior structure
158.19   Interior structure
158.20   Component serviceability
158.21   Rubbish and garbage
158.22   Extermination
Light, Ventilation and Occupancy Limitations
158.23   General
158.24   Light
158.25   Ventilation
158.26   Occupancy limitations
Plumbing Facilities and Requirements
158.27   General
158.28   Required facilities
158.29   Toilet rooms
158.30   Plumbing systems and fixtures
158.31   Water system
158.32   Sanitary drainage system
158.33   Storm drainage
Mechanical and Electrical Requirements
158.34   General
158.35   Heating facilities
158.36   Mechanical equipment
158.37   Electrical facilities
158.38   Electrical equipment
158.39   Elevators, escalators and dumbwaiters
158.40   Duct systems
Fire Safety Requirements
158.41   General
158.42   Means of egress
158.43   Fire-resistance ratings
158.44   Fire protection systems
158.45   Carbon monoxide alarms and detection
Boarding Standards
158.46   Unoccupied, vacant, and abandoned structures
Residential Rental Registration and Education Program
158.47   General
158.48   Registration required
158.49   Inspection required
158.50   Notification
158.51   Violations and penalties
158.52   Appeal
158.53   Disclaimer of liability
158.54   Severability
158.97   Property maintenance and nuisance compliance times
Reference Standards
158.98   Referenced standards
158.99   Penalty
§158.01 GENERAL.
   (A)   Title. These regulations shall be known as the Property Maintenance
Code of the City of West Carrollton, hereinafter referred to as "this code".
   (B)   Scope. The provisions of this code shall apply to all existing
residential and nonresidential structures and all existing premises and
constitute minimum requirements and standards for premises, structures,
equipment and facilities for light, ventilation, space, heating, sanitation,
protection from the elements, reasonable level of safety from fire and other
hazards, and for a reasonable level of sanitary maintenance; the responsibility
of owners, operators and occupants; the occupancy of existing structures and
premises, and for administration, enforcement and penalties.
   (C)   Intent. This code shall be construed to secure its expressed intent,
which is to ensure public health, safety and welfare insofar as they are
affected by the continued occupancy and maintenance of structures and premises.
Existing structures and premises that do not comply with these provisions shall
be altered, removed or repaired to provide a minimum level of health and safety
as required herein.
   (D)   Severability. If a section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of
this code is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this code.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.02 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   General. The provisions of this code shall apply to all matters
affecting or relating to structures and premises, as set forth in §158.01.
Where, in a specific case, different sections of this code specify different
requirements, the most restrictive shall govern. Where there is a conflict
between a general requirement and a specific requirement, the specific
requirement shall govern. Where differences occur between provisions of this
code and the referenced standards, the provisions of this code shall apply.
Where, in a specific case, different sections of this code specify different
requirements, the most restrictive shall govern.
   (B)   Maintenance. Equipment, systems, devices and safeguards required by
this code or a previous regulation or code under which the structure or
premises was constructed, altered or repaired shall be maintained in good
working order. No owner, owner's authorized agent, operator, or occupant or any
other person shall cause any service, facility, equipment or utility which is
required under this section to be removed from or shut off from or discontinued
for any occupied dwelling, except for such temporary interruption as necessary
while repairs or alterations are in progress. The requirements of this code are
not intended to provide the basis for removal or abrogation of fire protection
and safety systems and devices in existing structures. Except as otherwise
specified herein, the owner or the owner's authorized agent shall be ultimately
responsible for the maintenance of buildings, structures and premises.
   (C)   Application of other codes. Repairs, additions, or alterations to a
structure, building or changes of occupancy, shall be done in accordance with
the procedures and provisions of the referenced codes and standards as noted in
division (G) of this section. Nothing in this code shall be construed to
cancel, modify or set aside any provisions of the West Carrollton Zoning Code.
   (D)   Existing remedies. The provisions in this code shall not be construed
to abolish or impair existing remedies of the jurisdiction or its officers or
agencies relating to the removal or demolition of any structure which is
dangerous, unsafe and insanitary.
   (E)   Workmanship. Repairs, maintenance work, alterations or installations
which are caused directly or indirectly by the enforcement of this code shall
be executed and installed in a workmanlike manner and installed in accordance
with the manufacturer's installation instructions.
   (F)   Historic buildings. The provisions of this code shall not be mandatory
for existing buildings or structures designated by the federal government,
state or city as historic buildings where such buildings or structures are
judged by the Chief Code Enforcement Officer to be safe and in the public
interest of health, safety and welfare.
   (G)   Referenced codes and standards. The codes and standards referenced in
this code shall be those that are listed in §
158.98 and considered part of the requirements of this code to the prescribed
extent of each such reference and as further regulated by exceptions (1)(a) and
(1)(b) below.
      (1)   Exception: Where enforcement of a code provision would violate the
conditions of the listing of the equipment or appliance, the conditions of the
listing shall apply.
         (a)   Conflicts. Where conflicts occur between provisions of this code
and the referenced standards, the provisions of this code shall apply.
         (b)   Provisions in referenced codes and standards. Where to the
extent of the reference to a referenced code or standard includes subject
matter that is within the scope of this code, the provisions of this code, as
applicable, shall take precedence over the provisions in the referenced code or
standard.
   (H)   Requirements not covered by code. Requirements necessary for the
strength, stability or proper operation of an existing fixture, structure or
equipment, or for the public safety, health and general welfare, not
specifically covered by this code, shall be determined by the Chief Code
Enforcement Officer.
   (I)   Application of references. References to chapter or section numbers,
or to provisions not specifically identified by number, shall be construed to
refer to such chapter, section or provision of this code.
   (J)   Other laws. The provisions of this code shall not be deemed to nullify
any provision of local, state or federal law.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.03 LIABILITY.
   Liability of Code Enforcement Department personnel for any tortuous act will
be determined by Ohio courts to the applicable provisions of R.C. Chapter 2744.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§158.04 DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE CODE OFFICIAL.
   (A)   General. The Chief Code Enforcement Officer is hereby authorized and
directed by §
33.72 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of West Carrollton and the City
Manager in the interest of public health, safety, and general welfare to
enforce the provisions of this code. The Chief Code Enforcement Officer shall
have the authority to render interpretations of this code and to adopt policies
and procedures in order to clarify the application of its provisions. Such
interpretations, policies and procedures shall be in compliance with the intent
and purpose of this code. Such policies and procedures shall not have the
effect of waiving requirements specifically provided for in this code.
   (B)   Inspections. The Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her
designee shall make all of the required inspections, or shall accept reports of
inspections by approved agencies or individuals. Reports of such inspections
shall be in writing and be certified by a responsible officer of such approved
agency or by the responsible individual. The Chief Code Enforcement Officer is
authorized to engage such expert opinion as deemed necessary to report upon
unusual technical issues that arise, subject to the approval of the Director of
Planning and Community Development.
   (C)   Right of entry. The Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her
designee shall have the authority to enter all buildings or upon all premises
at all reasonable hours to inspect or investigate or to perform the duties
imposed upon the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee by this
code. If such building or premises is occupied, the Chief Code Enforcement
Officer, or his or her designee shall present credentials to the occupant and
request entry. If such building or premises is unoccupied, the Chief Code
Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee shall first make a reasonable
effort to locate the owner, the owner's authorized agent or other person having
charge or control of the building or premises and request entry. If entry is
refused, or the owner is unable to be located, the Chief Code Enforcement
Officer, or his or her designee shall obtain a search warrant and exercise any
other remedy provided by law.
   (D)   Warrant. When the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her
designee has obtained a search warrant or other remedy provided by law to
secure entry, an owner, the owner's authorized agent or occupant or person
having charge, care or control of the building or premises shall not prevent
entry to the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee for the
purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this code.
   (E)   Identification. The Chief Code Enforcement Officer as well as his or
her designees shall carry proper identification when inspecting structures or
premises in the performance of duties under this code.
   (F)   Notices and orders. The Chief Code Enforcement Officer as well as his
or her designees shall issue all necessary notices or orders to ensure
compliance with this code.
   (G)   Department records. The Chief Code Enforcement Officer shall keep
official records of all business and activities of the division specified in
the provisions of this code. Such records shall be retained in the official
records as required by the City of West Carrollton records retention policy.
   (H)   Coordination of inspections. Whenever in the enforcement of this code
or another code or ordinance, the responsibility of more than one code official
or officer of the jurisdiction is involved, it shall be the duty of the code
officials or officers involved to coordinate their inspections and
administrative orders as fully as practicable so that the owners and occupants
of the structure shall not be subjected to visits by numerous inspectors or
multiple or conflicting orders. Whenever a code official or officer from any
agency or department observes an apparent or actual violation of some provision
of some law, ordinance or code not within the code official's or officer's
authority to enforce, the code official or officer shall report the findings to
the official or officer having jurisdiction.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.05 APPROVAL.
   (A)   Modifications. Whenever there are practical difficulties involved in
carrying out the provisions of this code, the Chief Code Enforcement Officer
shall have the authority to grant modifications for individual cases upon
application by the owner or owners agent, provided the Chief Code Enforcement
Officer shall first find that special individual reason makes the strict letter
of this code impractical and the modification is in compliance with the intent
and purpose of this code and that such modification does not lessen health,
life and fire safety requirements. The details of action granting modifications
shall be recorded and entered in the division files.
   (B)   Alternative materials, design and methods of construction and
equipment. The provisions of this code are not intended to prevent the
installation of any material or to prohibit any design or method of
construction not specifically prescribed by this code, provided that any such
alternative has been approved. An alternative material, design or method of
construction shall be approved where the Chief Code Enforcement Officer finds
the proposed design is satisfactory and complies with the intent of the
provisions of this code, and the material, design, method or work offered is,
for the purpose intended, not less than the equivalent of that prescribed in
this code in quality, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability and
safety. Where the alternative material, design or method of construction is not
approved, the Chief Code Enforcement Officer shall respond in writing, stating
the reason why the alternative was not approved.
   (C)   Required testing. Whenever there is insufficient evidence of
compliance with the provisions of this code, or evidence that a material or
method does not conform to the requirements of this code, or in order to
substantiate claims for alternative materials or methods, the Chief Code
Enforcement Officer shall have the authority to require tests to be made as
evidence of compliance at no expense to the jurisdiction.
      (1)   Test methods. Test methods shall be as specified in this code or by
other recognized test standards. In the absence of recognized and accepted test
methods, the Chief Code Enforcement Officer shall be permitted to approve
appropriate testing procedures performed by an approved agency.
      (2)   Test reports. Reports of tests shall be retained by the Chief Code
Enforcement Officer for the period required under §
158.04(G).
   (D)   Used material and equipment. The use of used material that meet the
requirements of this code for new material is permitted. Materials, equipment
and devices shall not be reused unless such elements are in good repair or have
been reconditioned and tested where necessary, placed in good and proper
working condition and approved by the Chief Code Enforcement Officer.
   (E)   Approved material and equipment. Materials, equipment and devices
approved by the Chief Code Enforcement Officer shall be constructed and
installed in accordance with such approval.
   (F)   Research reports. Supporting data, where necessary to assist in the
approval of materials or assemblies not specifically provided for in this code,
shall consist of valid research reports from approved sources.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.06 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Unlawful acts. It shall be unlawful for a person or business entity
however organized, to be in conflict with or in violation of any of the
provisions of this code.
   (B)   Notice of violation. The Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her
designee shall serve a notice of violation or order in accordance with §
158.07.
   (C)   Prosecution of violation. Any person or business entity however
organized, failing to comply with a notice of violation or order served in
accordance with §
158.07 shall be charged with a misdemeanor, and the violation shall be deemed a
strict liability offense. If the notice of violation is not complied with, the
Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee shall institute the
appropriate proceeding at law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate such
violation, or to require the removal or termination of the unlawful occupancy
of the structure in violation of the provisions of this code or of the order or
direction made pursuant thereto. Any action taken by the authority having
jurisdiction on such premises shall be charged against the real estate upon
which the structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real estate.
   (D)   Violation penalties. Whoever violates any provision of this code, or
fails to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof, shall be
charged according to the provisions set forth in §
158.07(E) and/or §
158.99. Each day that a violation continues after proper notice has been served
shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (E)   Abatement of violation. The imposition of the penalties herein
prescribed shall not preclude the legal officer of the jurisdiction from
instituting appropriate action to restrain, correct or abate a violation, or to
prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises, or to stop an
illegal act, conduct, business or utilization of the building, structure or
premises. Assessment of cost incurred by the city for actions taken at the
direction of the legal officer to restrain, correct or abate a violation, or to
prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises, or to stop an
illegal act, conduct, business or utilization of the building, structure or
premises shall be recovered pursuant to §
158.99(E).
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.07 NOTICES AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Notice to person responsible. Whenever the Chief Code Enforcement
Officer, and/or his or her designee determines that there has been a violation
of this code or has grounds to believe that a violation has occurred, notice
shall be given in the manner prescribed in divisions (B) and (C) of this
section to the person(s) responsible for the violation as specified in this
code. Notices for condemnation procedures shall also comply with §
158.08(C).
   (B)   Form. Such notice prescribed in division (A) of this section shall be
in accordance with all of the following:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
      (3)   Include a statement of the violation or violations and why the
notice is being issued;
      (4)   Include a correction order with a reasonable compliance time frame
utilizing Table 158.97 as a guide to make the repairs and improvements required
to bring the dwelling unit, premises, building, equipment or structure into
compliance with the provisions of this code;
      (5)   Inform the property owner of the right to appeal; and
      (6)   Include a statement of the right to file a lien in accordance with
§
158.06(C).
   (C)   Method of service. Such legal notice shall be deemed to be properly
served if a true copy thereof is served: (a) personally; or (b) by leaving
notice with a person of suitable age and discretion at the usual place of
residence of the person served; or (c) by certified mail, or commercial carrier
service utilizing any form of delivery requiring a signed receipt, addressed to
the owner or other responsible person at the last known address as appearing in
the records or databases of the City of West Carrollton, Ohio; or (d) by
certified mail, or commercial carrier service utilizing any form of delivery
requiring a signed receipt, addressed to the owner at the owners tax mailing
address as indicated on the county tax duplicate; or (e) by certified mail, or
commercial carrier service utilizing any form of delivery requiring a signed
receipt, addressed to the owner or other responsible person at his or her
address as determined by an examination of public records of Montgomery County,
Ohio or the State of Ohio; or (f) by posting a true copy of the notice in a
conspicuous place on the structure or premises to which it relates.
      (1)   If the registered or certified mail envelope is returned with an
endorsement showing that the service was unclaimed, the notice may be served by
ordinary mail to the owners last known mailing address. This mailing shall be
evidenced by a certificate-of-mailing, and service shall be deemed complete on
that date of mailing.
      (2)   When service is perfected by posting notice on or about the
premises affected, such posting shall be evidenced by a photograph and a
notarized certificate of service.
      (3)   If service of written notice is unable to be perfected by any of
the hereinbefore methods, the City Manager or his or her designee shall cause
the notice to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city,
once each week for two consecutive weeks, and service shall be deemed completed
on the second date of publication.
      (4)   The Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee shall
complete and have notarized a certificate-of-service which shall set forth the
name and address of the person served, the manner of service, and the date
thereof.
   (D)   Unauthorized tampering. Orders, letters, signs, courtesy tags,
placards or seals posted or affixed by the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or
his or her designee shall not be altered, mutilated, tampered with, destroyed
or removed without authorization of the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his
or her designee. Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
of the third degree and charge so under R.C. §2909.07(A)(4). Should a violation
of this section create a risk of physical harm to any person, the charge shall
be upgraded to a misdemeanor of the first-degree.
      (1)   Exception: With regards to orders, letters or courtesy tags, the
owner, owner's agent or person to whom they are directed may remove without the
approval of the Chief Code Enforcement Officer or his or her designee.
   (E)   Penalties. Penalties for noncompliance with orders and notices other
than those in division (D) of this section, §§
158.08(D)(1) and (E),
158.10(D),
158.16(E)(10),
158.44(D) shall be as set forth in §§
158.06(D) and
158.99.
   (F)   Transfer of ownership. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any
dwelling unit, premises, building, equipment or structure who has received a
compliance order or upon whom a notice of violation has been served to sell,
transfer, mortgage, lease or otherwise dispose of such dwelling unit, premises,
building, equipment or structure to another until the provisions of the
compliance order or notice of violation have been complied with, or until such
owner or owner's authorized agent shall first furnish the grantee, transferee,
mortgagee or lessee a true copy of any compliance order or notice of violation
issued by the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee and shall
furnish to the Chief Code Enforcement Officer or his or her designee a signed
and notarized statement from the grantee, transferee, mortgagee or lessee,
acknowledging the receipt of such compliance order or notice of violation and
fully accepting the responsibility without condition for making the corrections
or repairs required by such compliance order or notice of violation.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.08 UNSAFE STRUCTURES AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   General. When a structure or equipment is found by the Chief Code
Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee to be unsafe, or when a structure
is found unfit for human occupancy, or is found unlawful, such structure shall
be condemned pursuant to the provisions of this code.
      (1)   Unsafe structures. An unsafe structure is one that is found to be
dangerous to the life, health, property or safety of the public or the
occupants of the structure by not providing minimum safeguards to protect or
warn occupants in the event of fire, or because such structure contains unsafe
equipment or is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe or of
such faulty construction or unstable foundation, that partial or complete
collapse is possible.
      (2)   Unsafe equipment. Unsafe equipment includes any boiler, heating
equipment, elevator, moving stairway, electrical wiring or device, flammable
liquid containers or other equipment on the premises or within the structure
which is in such disrepair or condition that such equipment is a hazard to
life, health, property or safety of the public or occupants of the premises or
structure.
      (3)   Structure unfit for human occupancy. A structure is unfit for human
occupancy whenever the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee
finds that such structure is unsafe, unlawful or, because of the degree to
which the structure is in disrepair or lacks maintenance, is unsanitary, vermin
or rat infested, contains filth and contamination, or lacks ventilation,
illumination, sanitary or heating facilities or other essential equipment
required by this code, or because the location of the structure constitutes a
hazard to the occupants of the structure or to the public.
      (4)   Unlawful structure. An unlawful structure is one found in whole or
in part to be occupied by more persons than permitted under this code, or was
erected, altered or occupied contrary to law, or has been declared a public
nuisance.
      (5)   Dangerous structure or premises. For the purpose of this code, any
structure or premises that has any or all of the conditions or defects
described below shall be considered dangerous:
         (a)   Any door, aisle, passageway, stairway, exit or other means of
egress that does not conform to the approved building or fire code of the
jurisdiction having authority as related to the requirements for existing
buildings.
         (b)   The walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway, exit or
other means of egress is so warped, worn, loose, torn, obstructed or otherwise
unsafe as to not provide safe and adequate means of egress.
         (c)   Any portion of a building, structure or appurtenance that has
been damaged by fire, earthquake, wind, flood, deterioration, neglect,
abandonment, vandalism or by any other cause to such an extent that it is
likely to partially or completely collapse, or to become detached or dislodged.
         (d)   Any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof that is not of sufficient strength or
stability, or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting natural and artificial loads of one and one-half the
original design value.
         (e)   The building or structure, or part of the building or structure
because of dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction, the removal
or movement of some portion of the ground necessary for the support, or for any
other reason, is likely to partially or completely collapse, or some portion of
the foundation or underpinning of the building or structure is likely to fail
or give way.
         (f)   The building or structure, or any portion thereof, is clearly
unsafe for its use and occupancy.
         (g)   The building or structure is neglected, damaged, dilapidated,
unsecured or abandoned so as to become an attractive nuisance to children who
might play in the building or structure to their danger, becomes a harbor for
vagrants, squatters, criminals or immoral persons, or enables persons to resort
to the building or structure for committing a nuisance or unlawful act.
         (h)   Any building or structure has been constructed, exists or is
maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition applicable
to such building or structure provided by the approved building or fire code of
the jurisdiction, or any law or ordinance to such an extent as to present
either a substantial risk of fire, building collapse or any other threat to
life and safety.
         (i)   A building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate lighting, ventilation,
mechanical or plumbing system, or otherwise, is determined by the Chief Code
Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee to be unsanitary, unfit for human
habitation or in such a condition that it is likely to cause sickness or
disease.
         (j)   Any building or structure, because of a lack of sufficient or
proper fire-resistance-rated construction, fire protection systems, electrical
systems, fuel connections, mechanical system, plumbing system or other cause,
is determined by the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee to
be a threat to life or health.
         (k)   Any portion of a building remains on a site after the demolition
or destruction of the building or structure or whenever any building or
structure is abandoned so as to constitute such a building or portion thereof
as an attractive nuisance or hazard to the public.
   (B)   Closing of vacant structures. If the structure is vacant and unfit for
human habitation and occupancy, and is not in danger of structural collapse,
the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee is authorized to
post a placard of condemnation on the premises and order the structure closed
and secured so as not to be an attractive nuisance. Upon failure of the owner
or the owner's authorized agent to close and secure the premises within the
time specified in the order or should the owner or owner's authorized agent not
be located by reasonable means, the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or
her designee shall cause the premises to be closed and secured through any
available public agency or by contract or arrangement by private persons and
the cost thereof shall be charged against the real estate upon which the
structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real estate and may be
collected by any other legal resource.
   (C)   Notice. Whenever the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her
designee has condemned a structure or equipment under the provisions of this
section, notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about the
structure affected by such notice and served on the owner, owner's authorized
agent or the person or persons responsible for the structure or equipment in
accordance with division (C) of this section. If the notice pertains to
equipment, it shall also be placed on the condemned equipment. The notice shall
be in the form prescribed in §
158.07(B).
   (D)   Placarding. The Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee
shall post on the premises or on defective equipment a placard bearing the word
"Condemned" and a statement of the penalties provided for occupying the
premises, operating the equipment or removing the placard. Any owner or any
person who moves, defaces, damages, or destroys a placard without the approval
of the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee shall be charged
under R.C. §2909.07(A)(4) a misdemeanor of the third degree. Should a violation
of this section create a risk of physical harm to any person, the charge shall
be upgraded to a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (1)   Placard removal. The Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her
designee shall remove the condemnation placard once the defect or defects upon
which the condemnation and placarding action were based have been eliminated.
Any person who moves, defaces, damages, or destroys a placard without the
approval of the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee shall be
subject to the penalties provided by this code.
   (E)   Prohibited occupancy. Any occupied structure, building or premises
condemned and placarded by the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her
designee shall be vacated as ordered by the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or
his or her designee. Any person who enters or occupies a placard premises or
operates placarded equipment, and any owner, owner's authorized agent or any
person responsible for the premises who allows anyone to enter or occupy a
placarded premises or operate placarded equipment shall be charged under R.C.
§2921.31 a misdemeanor of the second degree. Should a violation of this section
create a risk of physical harm to any person, the charge shall be upgraded to a
felony of the fifth degree.
   (F)   Authority to disconnect service utilities. The Chief Code Enforcement
Officer shall have the authority to authorize and order the disconnection of
utility services to a building, structure or system regulated by this code and
the referenced codes and standards set forth in §
158.08(G) in the case of emergency where necessary to eliminate an immediate
hazard to life or property, or when a building, structure or system has been
ordered condemned and it is the judgement of the Chief Code Enforcement Officer
that this action is necessary to protect life or property, or where such
utility connection has been made without approval. In cases where either the
electrical and/or gas service to a structure or building has been discontinued,
the Chief Code Enforcement Officer shall order the water service shut-off at
the curb stop so to protect said structure or building from damage due to
broken or frozen pipes. The Chief Code Enforcement Officer shall notify the
servicing utility and, whenever possible, the owner or owner's authorized agent
and occupant of the building, structure or service system of the decision to
disconnect prior to taking such action. If the Chief Code Enforcement Officer,
or his or her designee is unable to make notification prior to disconnection,
the owner, owner's authorized agent or occupant of the building, structure or
service system shall be notified in writing as soon as practical thereafter.
   (G)   Entry authorization. An entry authorization to abate unsafe and/or
unfit conditions shall only be issued to the owner or owner's authorized agent.
Entry authorizations may be issued to other persons only upon receipt of a
notarized affidavit from the owner or owner's authorized agent granting
permission to the other person(s) to enter on behalf of the owner to abate such
unsafe and/or unfit conditions. Authorization extensions may be issued at the
discretion of the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, and/or his or her designee.
An entry authorization shall contain the following:
      (1)   The date when the authorization was issued;
      (2)   The address of the condemned structure or building;
      (3)   The condemnation order number;
      (4)   The name(s) of the person(s) being granted permission to enter;
      (5)   The date and time the person(s) may enter the condemned structure
or building;
      (6)   A list of what actions are to be completed to bring the structure
or building into compliance with the order;
      (7)   A statement advising the entering person(s) of the legal
ramifications should they enter at times other than listed within the
authorization;
      (8)   A statement advising the entering person(s) of the legal
ramifications should they be found inside the structure not actively completing
the abatement;
      (9)   The date and time upon which the authorization expires; and
      (10)   Signature line for the owner, owner's authorized agent or other
person and city representative.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.09 EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   (A)   Imminent danger. When, in the opinion of the Chief Code Enforcement
Officer, or his or her designee, there is imminent danger of failure or
collapse of a building or structure which endangers life, or when any structure
or part of a structure has fallen and life is endangered by the occupation of
the structure, or when there is actual or potential danger to the building
occupants or those in the proximity of any structure because of explosives,
explosive fumes or vapors or the presence of toxic fumes, gases or materials,
or operation of defective or dangerous equipment, the Chief Code Enforcement
Officer, or his or her designee is hereby authorized and empowered to order and
require the occupants to vacate the premises forthwith. The Chief Code
Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee shall post at each entrance to such
structure a notice reading as follows: "This Structure Is Unsafe and Its
Occupancy Has Been Prohibited by the Code Official." It shall be unlawful for
any person to enter such structure except with the approval of the Chief Code
Enforcement Officer, his or her designee for the purpose of securing the
structure, making the required repairs, removing the hazardous condition or of
demolishing the same. Any person who enters or occupies a premises placarded
with a notice or operates equipment placarded with a notice, and any owner or
any person responsible for the premises who lets anyone enter or occupy a
premises placarded with a notice or operate equipment placarded with a notice
without authorization of the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her
designee shall be charged under R.C. §2921.31 a misdemeanor of the second
degree. Should a violation of this section create a risk of physical harm to
any person, the charge shall be upgraded to a felony of the fifth degree. Any
person who moves, defaces, damages, or destroys a placard without the approval
of the Chief Code Enforcement Officer or his or her designee shall be charged
under R.C. §2909.07(A)(4) a misdemeanor of the third degree. Should a violation
of this section create a risk of physical harm to any person, the charge shall
be upgraded to a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (B)   Temporary safeguards. Notwithstanding other provisions of this code,
whenever, in the opinion of the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her
designee, there is imminent danger due to an unsafe condition, the Chief Code
Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee shall order the necessary work to
be done, including the boarding up of openings, to render such structure
temporarily safe whether or not the legal procedure herein described has been
instituted; and shall cause such other action to be taken as the Chief Code
Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee deems necessary to meet such
emergency.
   (C)   Closing streets. When necessary for public safety, the Chief Code
Enforcement Officer shall temporarily close structures and close or order the
authority having jurisdiction to close, sidewalks, streets, public ways and
places adjacent to unsafe structures, and prohibit the same from being
utilized.
   (D)   Emergency repairs. For the purposes of this section, the Chief Code
Enforcement Officer shall employ the necessary labor and materials to perform
the required work as expeditiously as possible.
   (E)   Costs of emergency repairs. Costs incurred in the performance of
emergency work shall be paid by the jurisdiction. The legal counsel of the
jurisdiction shall institute appropriate action against the owner of the
premises where the unsafe structure is or was located for the recovery of such
costs, including an administrative fee as specified in
Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the City of
West Carrollton.
   (F)   Hearing. Any person ordered to take emergency measures shall comply
with such order forthwith. Any affected person shall thereafter, upon petition
directed to the Board of Zoning Appeals, be afforded a hearing as described in
this code.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.10 STOP WORK ORDER.
   (A)   Authority. Whenever the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her
designee finds any work regulated by this code being performed in a manner
contrary to the provisions of this code, without approval as required by the
Ohio Building Code, Residential Code of Ohio, Ohio Fire Code, City of West
Carrollton Zoning Code, Ohio Mechanical Code, Energy Conservation Code of Ohio,
Ohio Fuel Gas Code, Ohio Plumbing Code, and NFPA 70 or the City of West
Carrollton Public Works Code,
Chapter 152: Subdivision Code,
Chapter 153: Sign Code, or Chapter 156: Flood Damage Prevention Code in an
unapproved dangerous or unsafe manner, the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or
his or her designee is authorized to issue a stop work order.
   (B)   Issuance. A stop work order shall be issued as set forth in §
158.07(B) and (C) and shall be given to the owner, owner's authorized agent, or
to the person(s) doing the work. Upon issuance of a stop work order, the cited
work shall immediately cease. The stop work order shall state the reason for
the order and the conditions under which the cited work is authorized to
resume.
   (C)   Emergencies. When an emergency exists, the Chief Code Enforcement
Officer, or his or her designee shall not be required to give written notice
prior to stopping work.
   (D)   Failure to comply. Any person who continues any work after having been
served with a stop work order, except such work as the person is directed to
perform to remove such violation or unsafe condition, shall be charged under
R.C. §2921.31 a misdemeanor of the second degree. Should a violation of this
section create a risk of physical harm to any person, the charge shall be
upgraded to a felony of the fifth degree.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.11 DEMOLITION.
   (A)   General. The Chief Code Enforcement Officer shall order the owner or
owner's authorized agent of any premises upon which is located any structure,
which in the Chief Code Enforcement Officer's judgment is so old, deteriorated,
dilapidated or has been declared a public nuisance, or has become so out of
repair as to be dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary, or otherwise unfit for human
habitation or occupancy, and such that it is unreasonable to repair the
structure, to demolish and remove such structure; or if in the opinion of the
owner, such structure is capable of being made safe and sanitary by repair and
renovation, said owner shall enter into a compliance agreement with the city
whereby, the owner shall agree to complete the repairs and renovation in a time
period not to exceed 30 days of receipt of notice to demolish. The compliance
agreement shall include a statement that failure upon the owner to fulfill the
terms of the agreement may result in the city commencing abatement by means of
demolition; or where there has been a cessation of normal construction of any
structure for a period of more than six months, to demolish and remove such
structure.
   (B)   Notices and orders. All notices and orders shall comply with §
158.07.
   (C)   Failure to comply. If the owner of a premises fails to comply with a
demolition order or compliance agreement within the time prescribed, the Chief
Code Enforcement Officer shall cause the structure to be demolished and
removed, either through an available public agency or by contract or
arrangement with private persons, and the cost of such demolition and removal
shall be charged against the real estate upon which the structure is located
and shall be a lien upon such real estate. The Chief Code Enforcement Officer
may upon request of the owner extend the time limit outlined in the compliance
agreement as specified in division (A) of this section provided upon inspection
by the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee that significant
improvement has been made and is continuing to be made in abating the nuisance
structure. Extensions in time shall be limited to 30 day increments.
   (D)   Salvage materials. When any structure has been ordered demolished and
removed, the governing body or other designated officer under said contract or
arrangement aforesaid shall have the right to sell the salvage and valuable
materials at the highest price obtainable. The net proceeds of such sale, after
deducting the expenses of such demolition and removal, shall be promptly
remitted with a report of such sale or transaction, including the items of
expense and the amounts deducted, for the person who is entitled thereto,
subject to any order of a court. If such a surplus does not remain to be turned
over, the report shall so state.
   (E)   Permit required; disconnection of utilities.
      (1)   No person shall demolish any building or structure without securing
a permit from the City of West Carrollton Planning and Community Development
Department.
      (2)   As a condition of receiving a demolition permit, the owner or
owner's authorized agent of a building or structure to be demolished shall
notify the appropriate utilities serving the building or structure to be
demolished and request that the utilities be terminated. The owner or owner's
authorized of the building, or structure to be demolished, shall provide
evidence to the City of West Carrollton Planning and Community Development
Department that the utilities have been terminated. A permit shall not be
issued until all proper verifications have been received. Proof of verification
that services have been terminated can be found on the application for a
demolition permit.
   (F)   Bond or other surety required. Prior to the issuance of a demolition
permit, the owner or owner's authorized agent of the property subject to
demolition may be required to post with the city a performance bond, or other
surety approved by the City Manager, or his or her designee to assure the city
that the demolition work will proceed as permitted to its conclusion. The value
of the surety shall not exceed the cost associated with the demolition and site
restoration. The terms of the surety shall provide that the city may retain or
claim the surety proceeds if the permit holder fails to perform the demolition
activities in accordance with the permit granted. The value of the surety may
be reduced in the course of the demolition work, at the sole discretion of the
City Manager, if in the estimation that the City Manager, sufficient surety
remains to assure completion of the demolition and site restoration activity.
   (G)   General conditions.
      (1)   The owner shall adhere to the following codes, standards and
general conditions that apply during the demolition process:
         (a)   Ohio Building Code (OBC);
         (b)   City of West Carrollton Property Maintenance Code (PMC);
         (c)   Regional Air Pollution Control Agency (RAPCA);
         (d)   Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (OEPA);
         (e)   Dayton Montgomery County Public Health Department (DMCPH);
         (f)   Ohio Department of Health (ODH);
         (g)   Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA); and
         (h)   Any other local, state, or federal code or requirement not
previously mentioned regarding the demolition of structures.
      (2)   The following general conditions shall be adhered to during the
demolition process:
         (a)   The owner shall be required to demolish and remove all above and
below grade elements to the satisfaction of the city. Burning of structures to
be demolished shall not be permitted. The use of explosives for demolition
purposes may be permitted but only upon receiving prior approval of the city
and any state and/or federal regulatory agency who regulates such activity.
         (b)   When required, all asbestos containing material (ACM) shall be
properly removed and disposed of in accordance with any and all RAPCA, DMCPH,
OEPA and ODH regulations prior to the commencement of demolition activities. No
permit will be issued until such verification has been received by the city
stating that all known ACM has been properly abated and disposed of.
         (c)   The party securing the demolition permit shall provide for the
disposal of the debris associated with the demolition. The debris must be
placed in an appropriate container for removal by a private contractor, or
other arrangements shall be made for the disposal of the debris on at least a
weekly basis. All debris and material associated with the demolition work must
be removed from the property and properly disposed of in accordance with RAPCA,
OEPA, DMCPHD and ODH regulations.
         (d)   All sanitary sewer laterals, and water services that serve the
subject building or structure must be effectively abandoned in accordance with
city regulations.
         (e)   The contractor shall provide positive drainage to eliminate
ponding within the site. Should sediment issues arise, the owner shall be
required to complete the following:
            1.   Install a sediment fence so to contain all sediment on-site;
            2.   Inspect the sediment controls weekly and after any rain event;
            3.   Maintain the sediment controls by removing excess sediment;
            4.   Maintain silt controls around all catch basins and the site
and immediately adjacent to the site; and
            5.   Maintain streets and sidewalks free of dirt, mud and debris as
a result of the demolition process. Any dirt, mud and debris tracked onto
public streets shall be removed immediately. Failure to do so may result in the
city taking such corrective action to maintain the streets and sidewalks free
of dirt, mud and debris caused by the demolition activity. All costs involved
will be charged against the general contractor or permit holder or property
owner. Also, the general contractor, permit holder or property owner may be
charged under §
134.04 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of West Carrollton.
         (f)   The owner shall fill holes, pits, and excavations generated as a
result of demolition operations. The following referenced standards shall be
employed for the compaction of said fill:
            1.   ASTM D-698 - (Standard Proctor) Standard Test Methods for
Laboratory Compaction Characteristics of Soil Using Standard Effort;
            2.   ASTM D 2167 - Standard Test Method for Density and Unit Weight
of Soil in Place by the Rubber Balloon Method; 2008;
            3.   ASTM D 2922 - Standard Test Methods for Density of Soil and
Soil-Aggregate in Place by Nuclear Methods (Shallow Depth); 2005;
            4.   ASTM 3017 - Standard Test Method for Water Content of Soil and
Rock in Place by Nuclear Methods (Shallow Depth); 2005;
            5.   State of Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT),
Construction and Materials Specifications, 2012; or
            6.   State of Ohio Department of Transportation Supplement 1015
Compaction of Unbound Materials.
         (g)   The owner shall also fill holes, pits, and excavations as
follows:
            1.   Fill using unfrozen materials;
            2.   Utilize general fill in successive horizontal loose lifts;
            3.   Compact general fill in maximum eight-inch lifts to a minimum
95% maximum dry density as determined by ASTM D-698 (Standard Proctor). If
using sand, gravel, or unbound materials, use ODOT Supplement 1015 for
compaction requirements;
            4.   Maintain optimum moisture content of fill material to attain
required compaction density. Soils shall be aerated or wetted to condition them
to within 3% of optimum moisture content prior to compaction to within six
inches of final grade;
            5.   Employ a placement method that does not disturb or damage
other work;
            6.   Grade entire site to match surrounding, undisturbed grade
elevations, and grade to drain, all to the satisfaction of the city;
            7.   Establish a smooth ground surface upon which grass seed can be
sown; and
            8.   Ensure all areas to be seeded shall be free of rock larger
than three inch and other foreign material and shall be satisfactorily shaped
and finished. Hand raking will be required for areas if machines do not provide
results equivalent to hand raking.
         (h)   The owner shall be required to fertilize and seed filled,
disturbed, and/or barren areas as follows:
            1.   The reference standard for this division shall be the State of
Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT), Construction and Materials
Specifications, 2012;
            2.   Water utilized in the fertilizing and seeding process shall be
clean, fresh, and free of substances or matter that could inhibit vigorous
growth of grass;
            3.   Prior to fertilizing and seeding verify that prepared soil
base is ready to receive the work;
            4.   Fertilizer shall be in accordance with ODOT Item 659.04. Apply
fertilizer in accordance with manufacturer's instructions. Apply after smooth
raking of top soil and prior to roller compaction. Do not apply fertilizer at
same time or with same machine as will be used to apply seed. Mix thoroughly
into upper two inches of top soil. Lightly water to aid the dissipation of
fertilizer;
            5.   Seed mixture type and application shall be in accordance with
ODOT Item 659, Seeding and Mulching (Roadside Mixture). Do not seed areas in
excess of that which can be mulched on the same day. Do not sow immediately
following rain, when ground is too dry, or during windy periods;
            6.   Mulch type and application shall be in accordance with ODOT
Item 659;
            7.   Water to prevent grass and soil from drying out;
            8.   Control growth of weeds. Apply herbicides in accordance with
manufacturer's instructions. Remedy damage resulting from improper use of
herbicides;
            9.   Immediately re-seed areas that show bare spots; and
            10.   Protect seeded areas with warning signs during maintenance
period. The city will inspect all seeded areas no earlier than six months and
no later than 12 months after final seeding. For areas identified without a
uniform density of at least 70% grass cover, the owner will be required to
repair deficient areas identified by such inspection.
   (H)   Time limit for permit. The party receiving the demolition permit must
complete the demolition activity within six months from the receipt of the
permit or such other time period as designated by the Chief Code Enforcement
Officer. The time limit may be extended at the discretion of the Chief Code
Enforcement Officer or his or her designee. The petitioner must provide
evidence to show that extenuating circumstances prohibited the completion of
the demolition work in the six month period.
   (I)   Demolition permit fee. The demolition permit fee shall be as set forth
in
Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the City of
West Carrollton.
   (J)   Traffic maintenance and protection. No closure of streets, highways,
sidewalks, or other public facilities shall occur without the expressed written
consent of the city.
   (K)   Work hours. No work related to demolition shall be conducted between
the hours of 8:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m., weekends, and/or holidays unless approved
by the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.12 RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   (A)   Board of Zoning Appeals. In order to execute the purpose of this code,
the Board of Zoning Appeals, hereafter referred to as the Board, shall have the
following duties:
      (1)   To decide appeals where it is alleged that there is an error in any
interpretation, judgment, determination, or decision made by the Chief Code
Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee in the administration or
enforcement of this Property Maintenance Code. Filing of an appeal shall stay
further enforcement action pursuant to the order or notice being appealed until
the appeal is heard by the Board and a written decision issued.
   (B)   Hearings. Any person affected by a notice of violation, order,
revocation or denial of a permit which has been issued in connection with the
enforcement of any provision of this code may request and shall be granted a
hearing on the matter before the Board, provided that such person shall file in
the office of the Chief Code Enforcement Officer a written petition requesting
such hearing and set forth the name, address and phone number of the petitioner
and a brief statement of the ground for such a hearing or for the mitigation of
any item appearing on any notice, order, revocation or denial of a permit of
the Chief Code Enforcement Officer. Such petition shall be filed within ten
working days after receipt of the notice, order, revocation or denial of
permit. Upon receipt of such a petition, the Board shall set a time and place
for hearing and shall give the petitioner written notice thereof. The hearing
shall be commenced within a reasonable time after a petition has been filed. In
case of an appeal being requested for an emergency order of the Chief Code
Officer, the Board shall schedule a hearing within ten working days of the
filing of a petition for such hearing. At such hearing the petitioner shall be
given an opportunity to be heard and to show cause, why any item appearing on
such notice and order should be modified or withdrawn. The failure of the
petitioner or his or her representative to appear and state his case at such
hearing shall have the same effect as if no petition were filed.
      (1)   Findings. After a hearing, the Board shall sustain, modify or
withdraw any items appearing on the notice and order by majority vote,
depending upon its findings as to whether the provisions of this chapter have
been complied with, and the petitioner and the Chief Code Enforcement Officer
shall be notified in writing of such findings.
      (2)   Record. The proceedings at such hearings, including the findings
and decisions of the Board and reasons therefore, shall be summarized and
reduced to writing and entered as a matter of public record in the office of
the Chief Code Enforcement Officer. Such record shall also include a copy of
every notice and order issued in connection with the matter.
      (3)   Appeal of decision. Appeals from the Board shall be to the
Montgomery County Court of Common Pleas, as provided by the state statutes.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.13 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE RE-INSPECTION FEE.
   A re-inspection fee as set forth in
Chapter 37: General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the City of
West Carrollton shall be instituted for any re-inspection subsequent to the
first inspection, and shall be paid by the owner, owner's authorized agent,
tenant or person responsible for correction of violations of this chapter.
Notice shall be accompanied by a statement of the amount cost incurred, and in
the event the same is not paid within 30 calendar days after the mailing of the
notice, then such amount shall be certified to the County Auditor for
collection the same as other taxes and assessments are collected.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.14 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Scope. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms shall,
for the purposes of this code, have the meanings shown in this chapter.
   (B)   Interchangeability. Words stated in the present tense include the
future; words stated in the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter;
the singular number includes the plural and the plural, the singular.
   (C)   Terms defined in other codes. Where terms are not defined in this code
and are defined in the codes referenced in §158.98, such terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them as in those codes.
   (D)   Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined through the methods
authorized by this section, such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings
such as the context implies.
   (E)   Parts. Whenever the words "dwelling unit' "dwelling," "premises,"
"building," "rooming house," "rooming unit" "housekeeping unit" or "story" are
stated in this code, they shall be construed as though they were followed by
the words "or any part thereof."
   (F)   General definitions.
      ANCHORED. Secured in a manner that provides positive connection.
      APPROVED. Approved by the Chief Code Enforcement Officer.
      APPROVED PAVED SURFACE. Shall be asphalt, concrete, or paver brick and
shall encompass the entire footprint of the vehicle stored, placed or allowed
to remain upon said approved paved surface.
      AUTHORITY HAVING JURISDICTION. Shall be the City of West Carrollton.
      AUTOMOBILE PARTS. Any portion or part of any motor-driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
      BASEMENT. That portion of a building which is partly or completely below
grade.
      BATHROOM. A room containing plumbing fixtures including a bathtub or
shower.
      BEDROOM. Any room or space used or intended to be used for sleeping
purposes in either a dwelling or sleeping unit.
      BLIGHT. Shall mean:
         (a)   A parcel of real estate, lot, or premises that has one or more
of the following conditions:
            1.   A structure or building that is dilapidated, unsanitary,
unsafe, or vermin infested and that because of its condition has been
designated by the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee as
unfit for human habitation or use;
            2.   The property poses a direct threat to the public health or
safety in its present condition by reason of environmentally hazardous
conditions, solid waste pollution, or contamination;
            3.   Tax or special assessment delinquencies exceeding the fair
market value of the land.
         (b)   A parcel of real estate, lot, or premises that has two or more
of the following conditions that, collectively considered, adversely affect
surrounding or community property values or entail land use relationships that
cannot reasonably be corrected through the City of West Carrollton Zoning Code:
            1.   Dilapidation and deterioration;
            2.   Age and obsolescence;
            3.   Inadequate provisions for ventilation, light, air, sanitation,
or open spaces;
            4.   Unsafe and unsanitary conditions;
            5.   Hazards that endanger lives or property by fire or other
causes;
            6.   Non-compliance with this code, Ohio Building Code, Residential
Code of Ohio, Ohio Fire Code, West Carrollton Zoning Code, or West Carrollton
Property Maintenance Code;
            7.   Nonworking or disconnected utilities;
            8.   Vermin infestation;
            9.   Is vacant or contains an abandoned structure or building;
            10.   Extensive damage or destruction caused by a major disaster
when the damage has not been remediated within a reasonable time;
            11.   Identified hazards to health and safety that are conducive to
ill health, transmission of disease, juvenile delinquency, or crime;
            12.   Ownership or multiple ownership of a single parcel when the
owner, or a majority of the owners of a parcel in the case of multiple
ownership, cannot be located;
            13.   One or more vehicles and/or recreational vehicles improperly
stored;
            14.   An accumulation of litter; and/or
            15.   Is unsightly and/or unkept.
      CITY. The City of West Carrollton.
      CLEAN HARD FILL. Construction and demolition debris which consists only
of reinforced or non-reinforced concrete, brick, block, tile and/or stone which
can be re-utilized as construction material. Brick in clean hard fill includes
but is not limited to refractory brick and mortar. CLEAN HARD FILL does not
include materials contaminated with hazardous wastes, solid wastes, or
infectious wastes.
      CHIEF CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Shall be the City Manager or his or her
designee who is charged with the administration and enforcement of this code as
prescribed in §
33.72 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of West Carrollton.
      CONDEMN. To adjudge unfit for occupancy.
      COST OF SUCH DEMOLITION OR EMERGENCY REPAIRS. The costs shall include the
actual costs of the demolition or repair of the structure less revenues
obtained if salvage was conducted prior to demolition or repair. Costs shall
include, but not be limited to, expenses incurred or necessitated related to
demolition or emergency repairs, such as asbestos survey and abatement if
necessary; costs of inspector, testing agencies or experts retained relative to
the demolition or emergency repairs; costs of testing; surveys for other
materials that are controlled or regulated from being dumped in a landfill;
title searches; mailing(s); posting(s); recording; and attorney fees expended
for recovering of the cost of emergency repairs or to obtain or enforce an
order of demolition made by the Code Official, the governing body or Board of
Zoning Appeals.
      CULTIVATE. To loosen or dig (soil) around growing plants.
      DETACHED. When a structural element is physically disconnected from
another and that connection is necessary to provide a positive connection.
      DETERIORATION. To weaken, disintegrate, corrode, rust or decay and lose
effectiveness.
      DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
      EASEMENT. That portion of land or property reserved for present or future
use by a person or agency other than the legal fee owner(s) of the property.
The easement shall be permitted to be for use under, on or above a said lot or
lots.
      EQUIPMENT SUPPORT. Those structural members or assemblies of members or
manufactured elements, including braces, frames, lugs, snuggers, hangers or
saddles, that transmit gravity load, lateral load and operating load between
equipment and structure.
      EXTERIOR PROPERTY. The open space on the premises and on adjoining
property under the control of owners or operators of such premises.
      EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rats or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that serve as their food; by poison spraying, fumigating, trapping or
by any other approved pest elimination methods.
      GARBAGE and OFFAL. All refuse and waste of animals, fish, fowl, fruit,
and vegetable matter, and other material or materials so designated by the
Department of Health of Montgomery County or the State of Ohio, liquefied or
otherwise, which accumulated in the use and preparation of food for the table,
that has been discarded and abandoned and is no longer of value to the owner
for ordinary purposes of domestic consumption and also includes all refuse
arising from the dealing in or storing of the substances.
      GUARD. A building component or a system of building components located at
or near the open sides of elevated walking surfaces that minimizes the
possibility of a fall from the walking surface to a lower level.
      HABITABLE SPACE. Space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating or
cooking. Bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls, garages, sheds, storage or
utility spaces, and similar areas are not considered habitable spaces.
      HISTORICAL BUILDING. Any building or structure that is one or more of the
following:
         (a)   Listed or certified as eligible for listing, by the State
Historical Preservation Officer or keeper of the National Register of
Historical Places in the National Register of Historical Places.
         (b)   Designated as historical under an applicable state or local law.
         (c)   Certified as a contributing resource within a National Register
or state or local designated historical district.
      HOUSEKEEPING UNIT. A room or group of rooms forming a single habitable
space equipped and intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating
which does not contain, within such a unit, a toilet, lavatory and bathtub or
shower.
      IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which could cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
      INFESTATION. The presence, within or contiguous to, a structure or
premises of insects, rats, vermin or other pests.
      LABELED. Devices, equipment, appliances, or materials to which has been
affixed a label, seal, symbol or other identifying mark of a nationally
recognized testing laboratory, inspection agency or other organization
concerned with product evaluation that maintains periodic inspection of the
production of the above-labeled items and by whose label the manufacturer
attests to compliance with applicable nationally recognized standards.
      LET FOR OCCUPANCY OR LET. To permit, provide or offer possession or
occupancy of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, building, premise or
structure by a person who is or is not the legal owner of record thereof,
pursuant to a written or unwritten lease, agreement or license, or pursuant to
a recorded or unrecorded agreement of contract for the sale of land.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Means any type of motor vehicle or motor driven vehicle
used or useful for the conveyance of persons or property.
      MOTOR VEHICLE - BODY REPAIR. Means any activity involving the application
or removal of paint, epoxy, body filler or other similar product or material,
of effect modifications to the exterior or interior of a vehicle.
      MOTOR VEHICLE - MAJOR REPAIR. Means any repair which requires the engine
drive train, transmission assembly, exhaust system or drive train pails to be
removed from the vehicle, and/or requires removal of any interior parts.
      NEGLECT. The lack of proper maintenance for a building or structure.
      OCCUPANCY. The purpose for which a building or portion thereof is
utilized or occupied.
      OCCUPANT. Any individual occupying, living or sleeping in a building or
structure, or having possession of a space within a building or structure.
      OPENABLE AREA. That part of a window, skylight or door which is available
for unobstructed ventilation and which opens directly to the outdoors.
      OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a building,
structure or premises which is let or offered for occupancy.
      OWNER. Shall mean: (a) any owner of record of the fee of the premises or
lesser estate therein, mortgagee, vendee in possession, land contract
purchaser, assignee of rents, receiver, executor, administrator, trustee, or
lessee as determined by an examination of public records of Montgomery County
Ohio; (b) any owner of record of any building or structure on a premises,
including any mobile or manufactured home, or any lesser estate therein,
mortgagee, vendee in possession, land contract purchaser, assignee of rents,
receiver, executor, administrator, trustee, or lessee as determined by an
examination of public records of Montgomery County Ohio or the State of Ohio;
and (c) any other person, firm or corporation in control of a building,
structure or premises, or their duly authorized agents.
      PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership or any other group acting
as a unit.
      PEST ELIMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or
other pests by eliminating  their harborage places; by removing or making
inaccessible materials that serve as their food or water; by other approved
pest elimination methods.
      PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, easement or public way,
including any structures thereon.
      PUBLIC AREA. All public ways, parks, and other lands owned or leased by
the city.
      PUBLIC NUISANCE or NUISANCE. Shall be as defined in Chapter 160 of the
Codified Ordinances of the City of West Carrollton.
      PUBLIC WAY. Any public street, road, boulevard, alley, sidewalk, right-
of-way, or similar parcel of land essentially unobstructed from the ground to
the sky, which is deeded, dedicated or otherwise permanently appropriated to
the public for public use.
      REASONABLE. Shall mean fair, proper, or moderate under the circumstances.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Shall mean and include the following:
         (a)   Travel trailer, which is a portable structure built on a chassis
designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation, vacation
and/or other uses, and is pulled by another motorized vehicle;
         (b)   Pick-up camper, which is a structure designed primarily to be
mounted on or removed from a motor vehicle chassis and maintains sufficient
equipment to render it suitable for use as a temporary dwelling for travel,
recreation, vacation and/or other uses;
         (c)   Motorized mobile home, which is a self-contained motorized
dwelling designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation,
vacation and/or other uses;
         (d)   Boat trailer, means an open or enclosed trailer that transports
any type of watercraft;
         (e)   Utility trailers, means any type or style of open or enclosed
trailer used to transport any item, material or vehicle;
         (f)   Fold-out or pop-up tent trailers, means a type of recreational
vehicle that can be collapsed for ease of transportation or storage;
         (g)   Any combination of the above.
      RENTAL PROPERTY. Shall mean any individual parcel of land for residential
use and occupancy, the facilities and appurtenances in and on it, and the
grounds, area, and facilities that is let for occupancy, let or leased, rental
property does not include any of the following:
         (a)   State and/or federal prisons, jails, workhouses, and other
places of incarceration or correction, and halfway houses.
         (b)   Hospitals or similar institutions.
         (c)   Hotels or motels.
         (d)   State- and/or county-sanctioned shelters for juvenile runaways,
victims of domestic violence, or homeless persons.
         (e)   State- and/or county-sanctioned foster care homes, community-
oriented residential social service facilities.
         (f)   Any form of the word "Group Home" as defined in Chapter 154 of
the City of West Carrollton Zoning Code.
      REFUSE. Only the matters which are in fact noxious or have been refused
and abandoned by the owner as worthless.
      ROOMING HOUSE. A building arranged or occupied for lodging, with or
without meals, for compensation and not occupied as a one- or two-family
dwelling.
      ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
occupied or intended to be occupied for sleeping or living, but not for cooking
purposes.
      RUBBISH. Automobile parts, refuse, scrap metal, used building materials,
waste, ashes, cans, paper,  cartons, furniture, appliances, plastic, coal,
coke, rubber, leather, yard trimmings, excelsior, mineral matter, oil of an
unsightly or unsanitary nature, wire, chips, shavings, bottles, glass,
crockery, tin, wood, boxes, rags, dead weeds, brush, tree branches, bushes,
other combustible material or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary
nature other than garbage and offal.
      SCRAP METAL. Pieces of or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper,
aluminum, or any alloy thereof, whether intact or in parts, which has served
its usefulness in its original form and can no longer be used or is useful for
its originally intended purpose.
      SLEEPING UNIT. A room or space in which people sleep, which can also
include permanent provisions for living, eating and either sanitation or
kitchen facilities, but not both. Such rooms and spaces that are also part of a
dwelling unit are not sleeping units.
      STRICT LIABILITY OFFENSE. An offense in which the prosecution in a legal
proceeding is not required to prove criminal intent as a part of its case. It
is enough to prove that the defendant either did an act which was prohibited,
or failed to do an act which the defendant was legally required to do.
      STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed or a portion thereof.
      TENANT. A person, corporation, partnership or group, whether or not the
legal owner of record, occupying a building or portion thereof as a unit.
      TREE AND/OR SHRUBS. All woody vegetation presently or hereafter planted
on any public areas.
      TOILET ROOM. A room containing a water closet or urinal but not a bathtub
or shower.
      ULTIMATE DEFORMATION. The deformation at which failure occurs and which
shall be deemed to occur if the sustainable load reduces to 80% or less of the
maximum strength.
      VENTILATION. The natural or mechanical process of supplying conditioned
or unconditioned air to, or removing such air from, any space.
      WEEDS. Weeds shall include all grasses, annual, biennial and perennial
plants and vegetation. However, this term shall not include trees, shrubs,
bushes, cultivated flowers and gardens, ornamental grasses, cultivated gardens
and crops planted and cultivated for sale or in connection with an agricultural
business.
      WORKING DAYS. Shall be Monday through Friday excluding holidays.
      WORKMANLIKE. Executed in a skilled manner; e.g., generally plumb, level,
square, in line, undamaged and without marring adjacent work.
      YARD. An open space on the same lot with a structure.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
§158.15 GENERAL.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum
conditions and the responsibilities of persons for maintenance of structures,
equipment and exterior property.
   (B)   Responsibility. The owner of the premises shall maintain the
structures and exterior property in compliance with these requirements, except
as otherwise provided for in this code. A person shall not occupy as owner-
occupant or permit another person to occupy premises which are not in a
sanitary and safe condition and which do not comply with the requirements of
this chapter. Occupants of a dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit
are responsible for keeping in a clean, sanitary and safe condition that part
of the dwelling unit, rooming unit, housekeeping unit or premises which they
occupy and control.
   (C)   Vacant structures and land. All vacant structures and premises thereof
or vacant land shall be maintained in a clean, safe, secure and sanitary
condition as provided herein so as not to cause a blighting problem or
adversely affect the public health or safety.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.16 EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS.
   (A)   Sanitation. All exterior property and premises shall be maintained in
a clean, safe and sanitary condition. The occupant shall keep that part of the
exterior property which such occupant occupies or controls in a clean and
sanitary condition.
   (B)   Grading and drainage. All premises shall be graded and maintained to
prevent the erosion of soil and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water
thereon, or within any structure located thereon. The drainage of water or
stormwater from a property shall not be discharged in such a manner to create a
public nuisance to neighboring properties, public rights-of-way or public ways.
      (1)   Exception: Approved retention areas, detention basins and
reservoirs, provided their operation does not create a public nuisance to
neighboring properties, public rights-of-way or public ways.
   (C)   Sidewalks, curbs and driveways. All sidewalks, curbs, walkways,
stairs, driveways, parking spaces and similar areas shall be kept in a proper
state of repair, free of grass or other vegetation, and maintained free from
hazardous conditions.
   (D)   Weeds.
      (1)   Premises and exterior property shall be maintained free of weeds in
excess of eight inches in height or length. Noxious weeds shall be prohibited.
For the purposes of this section, weeds shall be as defined in §
158.14. For the purposes of this section, noxious weeds shall be the same as
currently defined in Section 901:5-37-01 of the Ohio Administrative Code.
      (2)   The Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee shall
annually, cause a notice to be published in a newspaper of general circulation
within the city, stating that weeds and noxious weeds are growing on lands
within the limits of the city. Such notice shall not be required to describe
the lands or to specify the name of the owner of such property. However, such
notice shall constitute notice to any owner, lessee, agent, or tenant having
charge of any land upon which weeds and noxious weeds are grown and that the
same must be cut and destroyed within five calendar days after such
publication. Such notice shall further specify that weeds and noxious weeds
shall be cut every subsequent time the height exceeds eight inches thereafter
without further notice or publication in order to prevent spreading, maturing
of weeds and noxious weeds. Such notice shall be published one time in order to
constitute notice hereafter.
      (3)   When any person being the owner, lessee, agent, or tenant having
charge of the lands mentioned in division (D)(1) of this section, fails to
comply with the notice set forth in division (D)(2) of this section, the Chief
Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee is hereby authorized to cause
such weeds and noxious weeds to be cut and destroyed. The Chief Code
Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee call upon any department, or
division of the city, or by private contract for whatever assistance may be
necessary to cause such weeds and noxious weeds to be cut and destroyed. All
expense incurred shall, when approved by the City Manager, be paid out of any
money in the City Treasury not otherwise appropriated.
      (4)   The Director of Finance or his or her designee, shall make a
written return to the County Auditor with a statement of charges for service in
cutting such weeds and noxious weeds, together with a proper description of the
premises. Such amounts shall be entered upon the tax duplicate, shall
constitute a lien upon such lands from the date of the entry, and shall be
collected as other taxes and returned to the city with the general fund.
   (E)   Trees and shrubs within private and public areas.
      (1)   Purpose. It is the policy of the city to regulate and control the
planting, removal, maintenance, and protection of trees and shrubs in the
public area: to eliminate and guard against dangerous conditions which may
result in injuries to persons on private property and in public areas of the
city; to promote and enhance the beauty of the city; to prevent damage to any
utility, street, sidewalk, or other public or private property; to protect
trees and shrubs located in public and private areas from undesirable and
unsafe planting, removal, maintenance, and protection practices; and to guard
all trees and shrubs within the city against the spread of disease or pest. The
provisions of this section shall apply to all trees and shrubs planted in or
upon public areas and private premises which shall endanger the life, health or
safety of persons or property using public areas of the city and private
premises.
         (a)   The Chief Code Enforcement Officer shall annually, cause a
notice to be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the city,
stating that trees and shrubs are growing on lands within the limits of the
city and such trees and/or shrubs are interfering with the use of a public area
and shall be trimmed to a clearance height of at least 14 feet from any public
road or alley surface; eight feet from any public sidewalk; and a minimum of 12
inches horizontally away from a public road, alley or sidewalk. Such notice
shall not be required to describe the lands or to specify the name of the owner
of such property. However, such notice shall constitute notice to any owner,
lessee, agent, or tenant having charge of any land upon which trees and/or
shrubs are grown and that the same must be trimmed within five calendar days
after such publication. Such notice shall further specify that trees and/or
shrubs shall be trimmed every subsequent time they encroach a public road,
alley or sidewalk thereafter without further notice or publication in order to
preserve public health, safety and welfare. Such notice shall be published one
time in order to constitute notice hereafter.
         (b)   When any person being the owner, lessee, agent, or tenant having
charge of the lands mentioned in division (E)(1) of this section, fails to
comply with the notice set forth in division (E)(1)(a) of this section, the
Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee is hereby authorized to
cause such weeds and noxious weeds to be cut and destroyed. The Chief Code
Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee may call upon any department, or
division of the city, or by private contract for whatever assistance may be
necessary to cause such weeds and noxious weeds to be cut and destroyed. All
expense incurred shall, when approved by the City Manager, be paid out of any
money in the City Treasury not otherwise appropriated.
         (c)   The Director of Finance, or his or her designee, shall make a
written return to the County Auditor with a statement of charges for service in
cutting such weeds and noxious weeds, together with a proper description of the
premises. Such amounts shall be entered upon the tax duplicate, shall
constitute a lien upon such lands from the date of the entry, and shall be
collected as other taxes and returned to the city with the general fund.
      (2)   Powers and duties. The City Manager, or his or her designee is
hereby authorized and empowered to:
         (a)   Direct and control the city street tree program to include all
planting, removal, maintenance, and protection of trees and shrubs on public
areas.
         (b)   Guard all trees and shrubs in the city so as to prevent the
spread of disease or pest and to eliminate dangerous conditions which may
affect life, health, or safety of person or property.
      (3)   Damage to trees and shrubs. No person shall in any public area of
the city: break, injure, mutilate, kill, or destroy any tree or shrub; permit
any animal under his or her control to do so; permit any fire to injure any
tree or shrub; or permit any toxic chemical to seep, drain, or be emptied on or
about any tree or shrub. During building operations, the builder shall erect
suitable protective barriers around public trees and shrubs which may be
injured.
      (4)   Fastening materials to trees and shrubs. No person shall fasten any
sign, rope, wire, or other material to, around, or through any public tree or
shrub without obtaining written permission from the city, except in emergencies
such as storms or accidents, or when guying a newly planted tree in a
professional manner.
      (5)   Public utilities. Public work affecting trees or shrubs shall be
limited to the actual necessities of the services of the company and such work
shall be done in a neat and professional manner and according to the
arboricultural specifications and standards set forth in division (E)(11) of
this section. The City Manager or his or her designee may supervise the work
performed.
      (6)   Planting, removal, maintenance, and protection of trees and shrubs.
All trees or shrubs in any public way and planted by or on behalf of the city
shall be planted, removed, maintained, and protected according to the most
recent editions of the following: "National Arborists Association Standard for
Pruning, Guying, Fertilizing, Spraying and Lightning Protection of Shade
Trees;" "American National Standards Institute (ANSI), 3133.1 - Safety
Requirements for Tree Care and Removing Trees and Cutting Brush;" and standards
set forth under division (E)(11) of this section.
      (7)   Power to plant, remove, protect, and maintain trees and shrubs. The
City Manager or his or her designee shall have the authority to plant, remove,
maintain, and protect trees and shrubs on all public areas as may be necessary
to ensure safety or preserve the symmetry and beauty of such grounds.
      (8)   Public nuisance. Any tree shrub or part thereof growing upon
private or public property which is interfering with the use of any public area
or endangers life, safety or health of persons or property in a private or
public area is declared a public nuisance.
      (9)   Abatement of nuisance.
         (a)   Trees and shrubs on public or private areas. Should the Chief
Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee determine, with reasonable
certainty upon inspection or examination, any nuisance tree or shrub, as herein
defined, exists in or upon any public or private area in the city, he or she
shall immediately cause it to be treated, trimmed, removed, or otherwise abated
in such a manner as to destroy or prevent the spread of such nuisance. The
manner, in which the nuisance shall be abated, shall be determined by the Chief
Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee. The Chief Code Enforcement
Officer, or his or her designee under the provisions outlined in §
158.04(C) shall be authorized at any time to enter on the premises in order to
remove or to lessen the severity of the public nuisance. The Chief Code
Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee may call on any department, or
division of the city, or by private contract for whatever assistance may be
necessary to remove or to lessen the severity of the public nuisance.
Photographs of the nuisance shall be taken prior to and after abatement. Those
photographs shall be filed with the City of West Carrollton Planning and
Community Development Department.
         (b)   Either before, or as soon as practical after the abatement of
the nuisance, the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee shall
serve a written notice on the owner in the manner provided in §
158.07. The notice shall also inform the owner of:
            1.   The date on which the nuisance was found;
            2.   The cost incurred to include an administrative fee in abating
the nuisance and that the city will recover such costs in the manner provided
in §
158.99(E); and
            3.   The right to appeal as provided for in §
158.12.
         (c)   All trees located in any public way that border private property
shall be maintained by the adjoining property owners in accordance with this
section. This duty of maintenance shall be binding upon all subsequent owners
and occupiers of the adjoining property.
         (d)   The city shall take the responsibility for the maintenance of
trees, shrubs or decorative vegetation planted by the city on the following
streets. This maintenance shall include repairs for damaged curbs and sidewalks
caused by the tree roots of these trees. For trees or shrubs other than those
listed below, the city shall maintain no liability for maintenance, removal or
damage caused by any tree or shrub to persons or property planted by the city
with the approval of the private property owner upon the property of said
private property owner in which said tree or shrub was planted:
            1.   Miami Avenue - Central Avenue to Hydraulic Road.
            2.   Water Tower Lane - Alex Road to Imperial Road.
            3.   S. Alex Road - Dixie Drive to Elm Street.
            4.   Central Avenue - Cedar Street to Elm Street (north side).
            5.   N. Elm Street - Main Street to Shannon Avenue.
            6.   Royal Ridge Dr. - S. Alex Road to Minstrel Drive.
            7.   Alex-Bell Road - Dixie Drive to S.R. 741.
            8.   Kimberly Lane - Alex Road to Alex-Bell Road.
            9.   Bowman Lane - Alex Road to Omad Court.
            10.   E. Dixie Drive - Cedar Street to Alex-Bell Road.
            11.   E. Central Avenue - Alex Bell Road to Cedar Street.
         (e)   Private property owners shall trim or remove any tree, plant, or
shrubbery, or any part thereof, as may be necessary to provide a clear and
unobstructed view of traffic from all directions at any street intersection, or
to abate a nuisance necessary to protect the life, limb, or property of
persons, drivers of any vehicles, or pedestrians using the street or sidewalk.
      (10)   Interference with the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or
her designee. No person shall prevent, delay or interfere with the Chief Code
Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee in the execution or enforcement of
this section. Any person who interferes with the Chief Code Enforcement
Officer, or his or her designee in the carrying out of their duties as required
by this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree and
charged so under R.C. §2921.31.
      (11)   Arboricultural specifications and standards. The following
specifications and standards are hereby established for the planting, trimming
and removal of trees and shrubs in the streets, parks, and public areas of the
city:
         (a)   Planting. The planting of any tree, shrub or vegetation shall
conform to those requirements of §
154.13.01 of the City of West Carrollton Zoning Code;
         (b)   Trimming.
            1.   All trees, vegetation and shrubs, on public or private
property which have branches overhanging a public street or alley shall have
said branches trimmed to a clearance height of 14 feet from the road surface;
all trees, vegetation and shrubs, on public or private property, which have
branches overhanging a public sidewalk, shall have said branches trimmed to a
clearance height of eight feet from the surface of said sidewalk; all trees,
vegetation and shrubs encroaching public streets, alleys and/or sidewalks shall
be horizontally trimmed back 18 inches from said street, alley and/or sidewalk.
The Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee may waive the
provisions of this section for newly planted trees if he or she determines they
do not interfere with public travel, obstruct the light of any street light, or
endanger public safety. Trees and/or shrubs in violation of this section shall
be declared a public nuisance and shall be abated as provided for herein.
            2.   All dead wood, studs, broken branches, badly formed branches,
disease-infected and insect infested branches and branches interfering with
public travel, lighting, existing buildings, and traffic signs shall be removed
during the trimming operation, with consideration given to the symmetry and
beauty of the tree or shrub.
            3.   No tree in a public way planted by or on the behalf of the
city shall be "topped" or cut back so as to remove the trees crown or normal
canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other
causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where
pruning standards are impractical, may be exempted from this section by the
Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee.
         (c)   Removing.
            1.   All public trees and shrubs which are marked for cutting shall
be completely removed from the growing site and disposed of in an authorized
manner. The stumps shall be ground out to a depth suitable for future planting
of trees or turf.
            2.   All trees planted by or on the behalf of the city and removed
by abutting property owners without permission from the City Manager, or his or
her designee shall be replaced by the property owner with a tree of the same
size and species.
   (F)   Rodent harborage. All structures and exterior property shall be kept
free from rodent harborage and infestation. Where rodents are found, they shall
be promptly exterminated by approved processes which will not be injurious to
human health. After extermination, proper precautions shall be taken to
eliminate rodent harborage and prevent re-infestation.
   (G)   Exhaust vents. Pipes, ducts, conductors, fans or blowers shall not
discharge gases, steam, vapor, hot air, grease, smoke, odors or other gaseous
or particulate wastes directly upon abutting or adjacent public or private
property or that of another tenant.
   (H)   Accessory structures. All accessory structures, including but not
limited to detached garages, fences, sheds and walls, shall be maintained
structurally sound and in good repair.
   (I)   Motor and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   Placement. Except as provided for by another code or regulation of
the City of West Carrollton, Ohio, no person shall park, keep, store or allow
to remain outdoors on any premises, property or city owned property a motor
vehicle or recreational vehicle that:
         (a)   Is inoperable, unregistered, or not displaying a license plate
that is current and properly titled to said vehicle;
         (b)   Is missing parts so as to prohibit said vehicle from legally
operating on any public street, road, drive, avenue, alley, highway, public
throughway or private drive;
         (c)   Is in a state of major disrepair, or in the process of being
stripped or dismantled;
         (d)   Is being painted or undergoing major repair or body work;
         (e)   Is covered or tarped; or
         (f)   Meets any of the criteria noted in division (I)(1)(a), (I)(1)
(b), (I)(1)(c), (I)(1)(d) or (I)(1)(e) of this section while remaining on an
open trailer, truck or other vehicle.
      (2)   Towing. The towing of any vehicle mentioned within this section
upon complaint of the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee to
the Chief of Police shall be conducted pursuant to R.C. §§4513.60, 4513.63,
4513.64, and 4513.65 or any other relevant code, statute, or law of the City of
West Carrollton or the State of Ohio.
      (3)   Exceptions:
         (a)   Automobile service stations and/or repair garages shall be
exempt from division (I)(1)(a) of this section except for the license
requirement, division (I)(1)(b), (I)(1)(c), (I)(1)(d) and (I)(1)(f) of this
section.
         (b)   New/used car dealerships as approved by the City of West
Carrollton Zoning Code and any condition placed upon them by the Planning
Commission shall be exempt from the license plate restriction in division (I)
(1)(a).
   (J)   Parking. No person shall store, place, or allow to remain, motor and/
or motorized recreational vehicles on non-approved paved surfaces. Reference §
158.14 for a list of approved paved surfaces.
   (K)   Defacement of property. No person shall willfully or wantonly damage,
mutilate or deface any exterior surface of any structure or building on any
private or public property by placing thereon any marking, carving or graffiti.
It shall be the responsibility of the owner to restore said surface to an
approved state of maintenance and repair.
   (L)   Ground cover. Grass, plantings or other suitable ground cover shall be
provided to prevent soil erosion which is or may become a blighting influence
to the neighborhood or detrimental to the structures, lot use or adjacent lots
and structures.
   (M)   Traffic markings, signs and signals. All traffic markings, signs and
signals to include but not limited to, public and private traffic markings,
signs and signals shall be maintained so as to be clearly visible and easily
recognized by motorist and pedestrians. Unless approved otherwise, all public
and private traffic markings, signs and signals shall abide by the Ohio
Department of Transportation regulations for said public and private traffic
markings, signs and signals.
   (N)   Lighting. All lighting used to illuminate the exterior of any
property, off-street parking or loading area shall be equipped with suitable
shielding or be so arranged as to reflect light away from adjacent properties,
and to prevent a glare at eye level on surrounding public property, streets or
private property.
   (O)   Time limit for storing construction materials. Construction materials
may be placed or stored on any property when the materials are being used in an
active construction project on the same property. The construction materials
shall not remain on the property for a period of more than 30 days unless the
construction activity has commenced and is active. Construction materials shall
be removed from the premises within ten days of the completion of the
construction project.
   (P)   Outside storage - occupied properties. No owner or occupant of any
premises shall maintain or permit to be maintained, the exterior property areas
of such premises in a condition that deteriorates or debases the appearance of
the neighborhood or creates a blighting influence. Furniture, equipment and
other items located on exterior property areas shall be listed and labeled for
outdoor use and shall be maintained and stored in a neat and orderly manner,
all other items shall be stored within enclosed structures or screened from the
public view and from the view of neighboring properties.
   (Q)   Outside storage - vacant properties. Vacant, abandoned or condemned
premises or structures in which portable items are left stored outside shall be
placed within an enclosed structure or stored in an organized manner behind the
structure. Items identified as rubbish shall be abated as per the requirements
outlined in §
158.21.
      (1)   Upon a finding by the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her
designee that portable items have been left stored on vacant exterior
properties in the city and have not been removed or properly stored, the Chief
Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee shall cause written notice to
be served upon the owner or owner's authorized agent of the property or premise
that contains portable items notifying him or her that portable items are on
exterior properties, premises, and that they must be properly stored or removed
within five days of the date upon which the notice was issued. Service of such
notice shall comply with §
158.07.
      (2)   In the event the owner, lessee, agent, or tenant having charge of
the property, premise or structure that contains portable items fails to
properly store or remove such portable items from the property within five days
from service of notice to do so, the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or
her designee is hereby authorized to have such portable items stored and to
invoice the owner or owner's authorized agent for the cost incurred by the city
in having such portable items stored, including an administrative fee assessed
at the current rate as set forth in
Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the City of
West Carrollton. In the event the costs are not paid within 30 days after
mailing of the invoice, then such amount shall be certified to the County
Auditor for collection, the same as other taxes or assessments are collected.
   (R)   Firewood. The storage of firewood shall be restricted to rear or side
yard areas only, stacked in a reasonably compact orderly manner not to exceed
four feet in height and shall encompass no more than 200 square feet in area.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.17 SWIMMING POOLS, SPAS AND HOT TUBS.
   (A)   Swimming pools. Swimming pools shall be maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition, and in good repair so as not to pose a threat to public
safety, health and welfare.
      (1)   The Chief Code Enforcement Officer or his or her designee shall
annually, cause a notice to be published in a newspaper of general circulation
within the city, stating that there are unsanitary swimming pools within the
limits of the city. Such notice shall not be required to describe the lands or
to specify the name of the owner of such property. However, such notice shall
constitute notice to any owner, lessee, agent, or tenant having charge of any
land upon which there are swimming pools in an unsanitary condition that the
same must be made sanitary within five calendar days after such publication.
Such notice shall further specify that said unsanitary swimming pools shall be
maintained sanitary thereafter without further notice or publication in order
to prevent the breeding of insect larvae and mosquitoes. Such notice shall be
published one time in order to constitute notice hereafter.
      (2)   When any person being the owner, lessee, agent, or tenant having
charge of the land(s) mentioned in division (A)(1) of this section, fails to
comply with the notice set forth in such publication, the Chief Code
Enforcement Officer or his or her designee shall cause such unsanitary pool be
made sanitary, and may employ the necessary labor to perform such task. All
expense incurred shall, when approved by the Chief Code Enforcement Officer or
his or her designee, be paid out of any money in the city sources not otherwise
appropriated.
      (3)   The City Director of Finance or his or her designee, shall make a
written return to the County Auditor with a statement of charges for service in
sanitizing any swimming pool, spa or hot tub, together with a proper
description of the premises. Such amounts shall be entered upon the tax
duplicate, shall constitute a lien upon such land(s) from the date of the
entry, and shall be collected as other taxes and returned to the city with the
general fund.
   (B)   Enclosures. Swimming pools, hot tubs and spas, containing water more
than 24 inches (610 mm) in depth shall be completely surrounded by a fence or
barrier at least 48 inches (1,219 mm) in height above the finished ground level
measured on the side of the barrier away from the pool, spa or tub. Gates and
doors in such barriers shall be self-closing and self-latching. Where the self-
latching device is less than 54 inches (1,372 mm) above the bottom of the gate,
the release mechanism shall be located on the pool side of the gate. Self-
closing and self-latching gates shall be maintained such that the gate will
positively close and latch when released from an open position of 6 inches (152
mm) from the gatepost. No existing pool enclosure shall be removed, replaced or
changed in a manner that reduces its effectiveness as a safety barrier.
      (1)   Exceptions.
         (a)   Spas or hot tubs with a safety cover that complies with ASTM
1346 shall be exempt from the provisions of subsection.
         (b)   Above ground swimming pools with walls equal to or greater than
48 inches in height above the ground and having detachable ladders shall be
exempt from the provisions of division (B) of this section provided, that when
not in use the ladder is removed from the pool and secured by lock away from
the pool.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.18 EXTERIOR STRUCTURE.
   (A)   General. The exterior of a structure or building shall be maintained
in good repair, structurally sound and sanitary so as not to pose a threat to
the public health, safety or welfare. The following conditions shall be deemed
to be as unsafe and shall be repaired or replaced to comply with the Ohio
Building Code or the Residential Code of Ohio:
      (1)   The nominal strength of any structural member is exceeded by
nominal loads, the load effects or the required strength;
      (2)   The anchorage of the floor or roof to walls and columns to
foundations is not capable of resisting all nominal loads or load effects;
      (3)   Structures or components thereof that have reached their limit
state;
      (4)   Siding and masonry joints including joints between the building
envelope and the perimeter of windows, doors and skylights are not maintained,
weather resistant or water tight;
      (5)   Structural members that have evidence of deterioration or that are
not capable of safely supporting all nominal loads and load effects;
      (6)   Foundation systems that are not firmly supported by footings, are
not plumb and free from open cracks and breaks, are not properly anchored or
are not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects;
      (7)   Exterior walls that are not anchored to supporting and supported
elements or are not plumb and free of holes, cracks or breaks and loose or
rotting materials, are not properly anchored or are not capable of supporting
all nominal loads and resisting all load effects;
      (8)   Roofing or roofing components that have defects that admit rain,
roof surfaces with inadequate drainage, or any portion of the roof framing that
is not in good repair with signs of deterioration, fatigue or without proper
anchorage and incapable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load
effects;
      (9)   Floor and flooring components with defects that affect
serviceability or flooring components that show signs of deterioration or
fatigue, are not properly anchored or are incapable of supporting all nominal
loads and resisting all load effects;
      (10)   Veneer, cornices, belt courses, corbels, trim, wall facings and
similar decorative features not properly anchored or that are anchored with
connections not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load
effects;
      (11)   Overhang extensions or projections including, but not limited to,
trash chutes, canopies, marquees, signs, awnings, fire escapes, standpipes and
exhaust ducts not properly anchored or that are anchored with connections not
capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects;
      (12)   Exterior stairs, decks, porches, balconies and all similar
appurtenances attached thereto, including guards and handrails, are not
structurally sound, not properly anchored or that are anchored with connections
not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects; or
      (13)   Chimneys, cooling towers, smokestacks and similar appurtenances
not structurally sound or not properly anchored or that are anchored with
connection not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load
effects.
      (14)   Exceptions:
         (a)   Where substantiated otherwise by an approved method.
         (b)   Demolition of unsafe conditions shall be permitted after
submission of a permit application and approval or where approved by the Chief
Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Protective treatment. All exterior surfaces, including but not limited
to, doors, door and window frames, cornices, porches, trim, balconies, decks
and fences shall be maintained in good condition. Exterior wood surfaces, other
than decay-resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements and decay by
painting or other protective covering or treatment. Peeling, flaking and
chipped paint shall be eliminated and surfaces repainted. All siding and
masonry joints as well as those between the building envelope and the perimeter
of windows, doors, and skylights shall be maintained weather resistant and
water tight. All metal surfaces subject to rust or corrosion shall be coated to
inhibit such rust and corrosion and all surfaces with rust or corrosion shall
be stabilized and coated to inhibit future rust and corrosion. Oxidation stains
shall be removed from exterior surfaces. Surfaces designed for stabilization by
oxidation are exempt from this requirement.
   (C)   Premises identification. No person shall remove, alter, or deface any
street address number or numbers properly assigned and placed on or near a
house, structure or building or to place or retain on any house, structure or
buildings any street address number or numbers other than those duly assigned.
The following describes placement, type and size of address numbers:
      (1)   The owner of any house, structure or building which has an assigned
street address shall cause the assigned street address number or numbers to be
placed and continuously maintained, in a conspicuous location either to the
left, right, or immediately above the entrance doorway to the house, structure
or building. If obstruction prohibits placement, the street address number or
numbers shall be placed at or near the entrance to the walk or driveway in an
appropriate place so as to be easily legible from the street or public way. On
any corner lot, the street address number or numbers shall face the street
named in the official address;
      (2)   If a house, structure or building is set back more than 50 feet
from the street line, the street address number or numbers shall be
conspicuously displayed at or near the entrance of the walk or driveway to the
house, structure or building in an appropriate place so as to be easily legible
from the street or public way;
      (3)   The street address number or numbers shall be Arabic numerals not
less than four inches in height (102 mm), with a minimum stroke width of 0.5
inches (12.7 mm). Numbers shall not be spelled out.
   (D)   Structural members. All structural members shall be maintained free
from deterioration, and shall be capable of safely supporting the imposed dead
and live loads.
   (E)   Foundation walls. All foundation walls shall be maintained plumb and
free from open cracks and breaks and shall be kept in such condition so as to
prevent the entry of rodents and other pests.
   (F)   Exterior walls. All exterior walls to include facias and soffits shall
be free from holes, breaks, and loose or rotting materials; and maintained
weatherproof and properly surface coated where required to prevent
deterioration.
   (G)   Roofs and drainage. The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight and
not have defects that admit rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent
dampness or deterioration in the walls or interior portion of the structure.
Roof drains, gutters and downspouts shall be maintained in good repair and free
from obstructions. Roof water shall not be discharged in a manner that creates
a public nuisance.
   (H)   Decorative features. All cornices, belt courses, corbels, terra cotta
trim, wall facings and similar decorative features shall be maintained in good
repair with proper anchorage and in a safe condition.
   (I)   Overhang extensions. All overhang extensions including, but not
limited to canopies, marquees, signs, metal awnings, fire escapes, standpipes
and exhaust ducts shall be maintained in good repair and be properly anchored
so as to be kept in a sound condition. When required, all exposed surfaces of
metal or wood shall be protected from the elements and against decay or rust by
periodic application of weather-coating materials, such as paint or similar
surface treatment.
   (J)   Stairways, decks, porches and balconies. Every exterior stairway,
deck, porch and balcony, and all appurtenances attached thereto, shall be
maintained structurally sound, in good repair, with proper anchorage and
capable of supporting the imposed loads.
   (K)   Chimneys and towers. All chimneys, cooling towers, smoke stacks, and
similar appurtenances shall be maintained structurally safe and sound, and in
good repair. All exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from the
elements and against decay or rust by periodic application of weather-coating
materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment.
   (L)   Handrails and guards. Every exterior handrail and guard shall be
firmly fastened and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and shall be
maintained in good condition. Specific requirements for the placement of
handrails and guards relating to one, two and three family dwelling units shall
be as outlined in the Residential Code of Ohio. Specific requirements for the
placement of handrails and guards in all other structures other than one, two
and three family dwelling units shall be as outlined in the Ohio Building Code.
   (M)   Window, skylight and door frames. Every window, skylight, door and
frame shall be kept in sound condition, good repair and weather tight.
      (1)   Glazing. All glazing materials shall be maintained free from cracks
and holes.
      (2)   Openable windows. Every window, other than a fixed window, shall be
easily openable and capable of being held in position by window hardware.
   (N)   Insect screens. Every door, window and other outside opening required
for ventilation of habitable rooms, food preparation areas, food service areas
or any areas where products to be included or utilized in food for human
consumption are processed, manufactured, packaged or stored, shall be supplied
with approved tightly fitting screens of not less than 16 mesh per inch (16
mesh per 25 mm) and every swinging door shall have a self-closing device in
good working condition.
      (1)   Exception: Screens shall not be required where other approved
means, such as air curtains or insect repellent fans, are employed.
   (O)   Doors. All exterior doors, door assemblies, operator systems if
provided, and hardware shall be maintained in good condition. Locks at all
entrances to dwelling units and sleeping units shall tightly secure the door.
Locks on means of egress doors shall be in accordance with §158.42(C).
   (P)   Basement hatchways. Every basement hatchway shall be maintained to
prevent the entrance of rodents, rain and surface drainage water.
   (Q)   Guards for basement windows. Every basement window that is openable
shall be supplied with rodent shields, storm windows or other approved
protection against the entry of rodents.
   (R)   Building security. Doors, windows or hatchways for dwelling units,
room units or housekeeping units shall be provided with devices designed to
provide security for the occupants and property within.
      (1)   Doors. Doors providing access to a dwelling unit, rooming unit or
housekeeping unit that is rented, leased or let shall be equipped with a
deadbolt lock designed to be readily openable from the side which egress is to
be made without the need for keys, special knowledge or effort and shall have a
lock throw of not less than one inch (25 mm). Such deadbolt locks shall be
installed according to the manufacturers specifications and maintained in good
working order. For the purposes of this section, a sliding bolt shall not be
considered an acceptable deadbolt lock.
      (2)   Windows. Operable windows located in whole or in part within six
feet (1,828 mm) above ground level or a walking surface below that provide
access to a dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit that is rented,
leased or let shall be equipped with a window sash locking device.
      (3)   Basement hatchways. Basement hatchways that provide access to a
dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit that is rented, leased or let
shall be equipped with devices that secure the units from unauthorized entry.
   (S)   Gates. Exterior gates, gate assemblies, operator systems if provided,
and hardware shall be maintained in good condition. Latches at all entrances
shall tightly secure the gates.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.19 INTERIOR STRUCTURE.
   (A)   General. The interior of a structure and equipment therein shall be
maintained in good repair, structurally sound and in a sanitary condition.
Occupants shall keep that part of the structure which they occupy or control in
a clean and sanitary condition. Every owner of a structure containing a rooming
house, housekeeping units, a hotel, a dormitory, two or more dwelling units or
two or more nonresidential occupancies, shall maintain, in a clean and sanitary
condition, the shared or public areas of the structure and exterior property.
The following conditions shall be determined as unsafe and shall be repaired or
replaced to comply with the Ohio Building Code or the Residential Code of Ohio:
      (1)   The nominal strength of any structural member is exceeded by the
nominal loads, the load effects or the required strength;
      (2)   The anchorage of the floor or roof to wall or columns, and of walls
and columns to foundations is not capable of resisting all nominal loads or
load effects;
      (3)   Structures or components thereof that have reached their limit
state;
      (4)   Structural members are incapable of supporting nominal loads and
load effects;
      (5)   Stairs, landing, balconies and all similar walking surfaces,
including guards and handrails, are not structurally sound, not properly
anchored or are anchored with connections not capable of supporting all nominal
loads and resisting all load effects;
      (6)   Foundations systems that are not firmly supported by footings, are
not plumb and free from open cracks and breaks, are not properly anchored or
are not capable of supporting all nominal loads.
      (7)   Exceptions:
         (a)   Where substantiated otherwise by an approved method.
         (b)   Demolition of unsafe conditions shall be permitted when approved
by the Chief Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Structural members. All structural members shall be maintained
structurally sound, and be capable of supporting the imposed loads.
   (C)   Interior surfaces. All interior surfaces, including but not limited to
windows and doors, shall be maintained in good, clean and sanitary condition.
Peeling, chipping, flaking or abraded paint shall be repaired, removed or
covered. Cracked or loose plaster, dry wall, decayed wood and other defective
surface conditions shall be corrected.
   (D)   Stairs and walking surfaces. Every stair, ramp, landing, balcony,
porch, deck or other walking surface shall be maintained in sound condition and
good repair.
   (E)   Handrails and guards. Every interior handrail and guard shall be
firmly fastened and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and shall be
maintained in good condition. Specific requirements for the placement of
handrails and guards relating to one, two and three family dwelling units shall
be as outlined in the Residential Code of Ohio. Specific requirements for the
placement of handrails and guards in all other structures other than one, two
and three family dwelling units shall be as outlined in the Ohio Building Code.
   (F)   Interior doors. Every interior door shall fit reasonably well within
its frame and shall be capable of being opened and closed by being properly and
securely attached to jambs, headers or tracks as intended by the manufacturer
of the attachment hardware.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.20 COMPONENT SERVICEABILITY.
   (A)   General. The components of a structure and equipment therein shall be
maintained in good repair, structurally sound and in a sanitary condition.
Where any of the following conditions cause the component or system to be
beyond its limit state, the component or system shall be deemed to be as unsafe
and shall be repaired or replaced to comply with the Residential Code of Ohio
or the Ohio Building Code:
      (1)   Soils that have been subjected to any of the following conditions:
         (a)   Collapse of footing or foundation system;
         (b)   Damage to footing, foundation, concrete or other structural
element due to soil expansion;
         (c)   Adverse effects to the design strength of the footing,
foundation, concrete or other structural element due to a chemical reaction
from the soil;
         (d)   Inadequate soil as determined by a geotechnical investigation;
         (e)   Where the allowable bearing capacity of the soil is in doubt; or
         (f)   Adverse effects to the footing, foundation, concrete or other
structural element due to the ground water table.
      (2)   Concrete that has been subjected to any of the following
conditions:
         (a)   Deterioration;
         (b)   Ultimate deformation;
         (c)   Fractures;
         (d)   Fissures;
         (e)   Spalling;
         (f)   Exposed reinforcement; or
         (g)   Detached, dislodged or failing connections.
      (3)   Aluminum that has been subjected to any of the following
conditions:
         (a)   Deterioration;
         (b)   Corrosion;
         (c)   Elastic deformation;
         (d)   Ultimate deformation;
         (e)   Stress or strain cracks;
         (f)   Joint fatigue; or
         (g)   Detached, dislodged or failing connections.
      (4)   Masonry that has been subjected to any of the following conditions:
         (a)   Deterioration;
         (b)   Ultimate deformation;
         (c)   Fractures in masonry or mortar joints;
         (d)   Fissures in masonry or mortar joints;
         (e)   Spalling;
         (f)   Exposed reinforcement; or
         (g)   Detached, dislodged or failing joints.
      (5)   Steel that has been subjected to any of the following conditions:
         (a)   Deterioration;
         (b)   Elastic deformation;
         (c)   Ultimate deformation;
         (d)   Metal fatigue; or
         (e)   Detached, dislodged or failing connections.
      (6)   Wood that has been subjected to any of the following conditions:
         (a)   Ultimate deformation;
         (b)   Deterioration;
         (c)   Damage from insects, rodents and other vermin;
         (d)   Fire damage beyond charring;
         (e)   Significant splits and cracks;
         (f)   Horizontal shear cracks;
         (g)   Vertical shear cracks;
         (h)   Inadequate support;
         (i)   Detached, dislodged or failing connections; or
         (j)   Excessive cutting or notching.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.21 RUBBISH AND GARBAGE.
   (A)   Accumulation of rubbish or garbage. All exterior property, premise,
and the interior of every building and structure shall be free from the
accumulation of rubbish or garbage. Upon a finding by the Chief Code
Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee that rubbish or garbage has been
placed on the exterior property, premise and/or the interior of any building or
structure in the city and has not been removed, the Chief Code Enforcement
Officer, or his or her designee shall cause written notice to be served upon
the owner and if different, upon the lessee, agent, or tenant having charge of
the property, premise or structure that contains rubbish or garbage notifying
him or her that rubbish or garbage is on exterior properties, premises and or
the interior of any structure, and that it must be collected and removed
immediately or up to five days depending on the severity of the violation.
Service of such notice shall comply with §158.07.
      (1)   Exception: This section does not apply to properties, premises or
structures being used under a city building or construction permit or license,
a city permit or license, or a conditional zoning permit or variance to operate
a junk yard, scrap metal operating facility, or similar businesses or a permit
issued pursuant to the provisions of state law.
   (B)   Disposal of rubbish. Every occupant of a structure shall dispose of
all rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by placing such rubbish in approved
containers.
      (1)   Rubbish storage facilities. The owner of every occupied premises
shall supply approved covered containers for rubbish, and the owner of the
premises shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
      (2)   Refrigerators and equipment. Refrigerators and similar equipment
shall not be discarded, abandoned or stored on exterior premises without either
first removing the doors or ensuring that the doors cannot be open by children.
Refrigerator or equipment shall be removed from the property within 72 hours of
being placed outside.
   (C)   Disposal of garbage. Every occupant of a structure shall dispose of
garbage in a clean and sanitary manner by placing such garbage in an approved
garbage disposal facility or approved garbage containers.
      (1)   Garbage facilities. The owner of every dwelling shall supply one of
the following: an approved mechanical food waste grinder in each dwelling unit
or an approved leakproof, covered, outside garbage container.
      (2)   Containers. The operator of every establishment producing garbage
shall provide, and at all times cause to be utilized, approved leak proof
containers provided with close-fitting covers for the storage of such materials
until removed from the premises for disposal.
   (D)   In the event the owner, lessee, agent, or tenant having charge of the
property, premise or structure that contains rubbish or garbage fails to remove
such rubbish or garbage from the property within immediately or up to five days
from service of notice to do so, the City Manager or his or her designee is
hereby authorized to have such rubbish or garbage removed from the property and
to bill the owner for the cost incurred by the city in having such rubbish or
garbage removed, including an administrative fee assessed at the current rate
as set forth in Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of
the City of West Carrollton. In the event the costs are not paid within 30 days
after mailing of the bill, then such amount shall be certified to the County
Auditor for collection, the same as other taxes or assessments are collected.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.22 EXTERMINATION.
   (A)   Infestation. All buildings and structures shall be kept free from
insect and rodent infestation. All structures in which insects or rodents are
found shall be promptly exterminated by approved processes that will not be
injurious to human health. After extermination, proper precautions shall be
taken to prevent re-infestation.
   (B)   Owner. The owner of any building or structure shall be responsible for
extermination within the structure prior to renting or leasing the structure.
   (C)   Single occupant. The occupant of a one-family dwelling or of a single-
tenant nonresidential structure shall be responsible for extermination on the
premises.
   (D)   Multiple occupancy. The owner of a structure containing two or more
dwelling units, a multiple occupancy, a rooming house or a nonresidential
structure shall be responsible for extermination in the public or shared areas
of the structure and exterior property. If infestation is caused by failure of
an occupant to prevent such infestation in the area occupied, the occupant
shall be responsible for extermination.
   (E)   Occupant. The occupant of any structure shall be responsible for the
continued rodent and pest-free condition of the structure.
      (1)   Exception: Where the infestations are caused by defects in the
structure, the owner shall be responsible for extermination.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
LIGHT, VENTILATION AND
OCCUPANCY LIMITATIONS
§158.23 GENERAL.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum
conditions and standards for light, ventilation and space for occupying a
structure.
   (B)   Responsibility. The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain
light, ventilation and space conditions in compliance with these requirements.
A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant, or permit another person to
occupy, any premises that do not comply with the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Alternative devices. In lieu of the means for natural light and
ventilation herein prescribed, artificial light or mechanical ventilation
complying with the Ohio Building Code or Residential Code of Ohio whichever is
applicable shall be permitted.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.24 LIGHT.
   (A)   Habitable spaces. Every habitable space shall have at least one window
of approved size facing directly to the outdoors or to a court. The minimum
total glazed area for every habitable space shall be 8% of the floor area of
such room. Wherever walls or other portions of a structure face a window of any
room and such obstructions are located less than three feet (914 mm) from the
window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room, such window
shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors nor to a court and shall
not be included as contributing to the required minimum total window area for
the room.
      (1)   Exception: Where natural light for rooms or spaces without exterior
glazing areas is provided through an adjoining room, the unobstructed opening
to the adjoining room shall be at least 8% of the floor area of the interior
room or space, but not less than 25 square feet (2.33 m2). The exterior glazing
area shall be based on the total floor area being served.
   (B)   Common halls and stairways. Every common hall and stairway in
residential occupancies, other than in one- and two-family dwellings, shall be
lighted at all times with not less than a 60-watt standard incandescent light
bulb for each 200 square feet (19 m2) of floor area or equivalent illumination,
provided that the spacing between lights shall not be greater than 30 feet
(9144 mm). In other than residential occupancies, means of egress, including
exterior means of egress stairways shall be illuminated at all times the
building space served by the means of egress is occupied with a minimum of one
footcandle (11 lux) at floors, landings and treads.
   (C)   Other spaces. All other spaces shall be provided with natural or
artificial light sufficient to permit the maintenance of sanitary conditions,
and the safe occupancy of the space and utilization of the appliances,
equipment and fixtures.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.25 VENTILATION.
   (A)   Habitable spaces. Every habitable space shall have at least one
openable window. The total openable area of the window in every room shall be
equal to at least 45% of the minimum glazed area required in §
158.24(A).
      (1)   Exception: Where rooms and spaces without openings to the outdoors
are ventilated through an adjoining room, the unobstructed opening to the
adjoining room shall be at least 8% of the floor area of the interior room or
space, but not less than 25 square feet (2.33 m2). The ventilation openings to
the outdoors shall be based on a total floor area being ventilated.
   (B)   Bathrooms and toilet rooms. Every bathroom and toilet room shall
comply with the ventilation requirements for habitable spaces as required by
division (A) of this section, except that a window shall not be required in
such spaces equipped with a mechanical ventilation system. Air exhausted by a
mechanical ventilation system from a bathroom or toilet room shall discharge to
the outdoors and shall not be re-circulated.
   (C)   Cooking facilities. Unless approved through the certificate of
occupancy, cooking shall not be permitted in any rooming unit or dormitory
unit, and a cooking facility or appliance shall not be permitted to be present
in a rooming unit or dormitory unit.
      (1)   Exceptions:
         (a)   Where specifically approved in writing by the Chief Code
Enforcement Officer.
         (b)   Coffee pots and microwave ovens shall not be considered cooking
appliances.
   (D)   Process ventilation. Where injurious, toxic, irritating or noxious
fumes, gases, dusts or mists are generated, a local exhaust ventilation system
shall be provided and maintained in good working order to remove the
contaminating agent at the source. Air shall be exhausted to the exterior and
not be re-circulated to any space.
   (E)   Clothes dryer exhaust. Clothes dryer exhaust systems shall be
maintained in good working order and free of lint build-up. Clothes dryer
exhaust systems shall be independent of all other systems and shall be
exhausted in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
      (1)   Exception: Listed and labeled condensing (ductless) clothes dryers.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.26 OCCUPANCY LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Privacy. Dwelling units, hotel units, housekeeping units, rooming
units and dormitory units shall be arranged to provide privacy and be separate
from other adjoining spaces.
   (B)   Minimum room widths. A habitable room, other than a kitchen, shall not
be less than seven feet (2,134 mm) in any plan dimension. Kitchens shall have a
clear passageway of not less than three feet (914 mm) between counter-fronts
and appliances or counter-fronts and walls.
   (C)   Minimum ceiling heights. Habitable spaces, hallways, corridors,
laundry areas, bathrooms, toilet rooms and habitable basement areas shall have
a clear ceiling height of not less than seven feet (2,134 mm).
      (1)   Exceptions:
         (a)   In one- and two-family dwellings, beams or girders spaced not
less than four feet (1,219 mm) on center and projecting not more than six
inches (152 mm) below the required ceiling height.
         (b)   Basement rooms in one- and two-family dwellings occupied
exclusively for laundry, study or recreation purposes, having a minimum ceiling
height of six feet eight inches (2,033 mm) with a minimum clear height of six
feet four inches (1,932 mm) under beams, girders, ducts and similar
obstructions.
         (c)   Rooms occupied exclusively for sleeping, study or similar
purposes and having a sloped ceiling over all or part of the room, with a
minimum clear ceiling height of seven feet (2,134 mm) over not less than one-
third of the required minimum floor area. In calculating the floor area of such
rooms, only those portions of the floor area with a minimum clear ceiling
height of five feet (1,524 mm) or more shall be included.
   (D)   Bedroom and living room requirements. Every bedroom and living room
shall comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   Room area. Every living room shall contain not less than 120 square
feet (11.2 m2 ) and every bedroom shall contain not less than 70 square feet
(6.5 m2) and every bedroom occupied by more than one person shall contain not
less than 50 square feet (4.6 m2) of floor area for each occupant thereof.
      (2)   Access from bedrooms. Bedrooms shall not constitute the only means
of access to other bedrooms or habitable spaces and shall not serve as the only
means of egress from other habitable spaces.
         (a)   Exception: Units that contain fewer than two bedrooms.
      (3)   Water closet accessibility. Every bedroom shall have access to at
least one water closet and one lavatory without passing through another
bedroom. Every bedroom in a dwelling unit shall have access to not less than
one water closet and lavatory located in the same story as the bedroom or an
adjacent story.
      (4)   Prohibited occupancy. Kitchens and non-habitable spaces shall not
be used for sleeping purposes.
      (5)   Other requirements. Bedrooms shall comply with the applicable
provisions of this code including, but not limited to light, ventilation, room
area, ceiling height and room width requirements of this chapter; plumbing
facilities and requirements of this chapter; mechanical and electrical
requirements of this chapter; and fire safety requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   Overcrowding. Dwelling units shall not be occupied by more occupants
than permitted by the minimum area requirements of Table 158.26(E).
   TABLE 158.26(E)
   MINIMUM AREA REQUIREMENTS
 
SPACE           MINIMUM AREA IN SQUARE FEET
                1-2 occupants   3-5 occupants 6 or more occupants
Living Room a,b 120             120           150
Dining Room a,b No requirements 80            100
Bedrooms        Shall comply with §
                158.26(D)
 
For SI: 1 square foot = 0.093 m2.
a.   See §
158.26(E)(2) for combined living room/dining room spaces.
b.   See §
158.26(E)(1) for limitations on determining the minimum occupancy area for
sleeping purposes.
      (1)   Sleeping area. The minimum occupancy area required by Table 158.26
(E) shall not be included as a sleeping area in determining the minimum
occupancy area for sleeping purposes. All sleeping areas shall comply with
division (D) of this section.
      (2)   Combined spaces. Combined living room and dining room spaces shall
comply with the requirements of Table 158.26(E) if the total area is equal to
that required for separate rooms and if the space is located so as to function
as a combination living room/dining room.
   (F)   Efficiency unit. Nothing in this section shall prohibit an efficiency
living unit from meeting the following requirements:
      (1)   A unit occupied by not more than one occupant shall have a clear
floor area of 120 square feet (11.2 m2). A unit occupied by not more than two
occupants shall have a clear floor area of 220 square feet (20.4 m2). A unit
occupied by three occupants shall have a clear floor area of 320 square feet
(29.7 m2). These required areas shall be exclusive of the areas required by
divisions (F)(2) and (F)(3) of this section.
      (2)   The unit shall be provided with a kitchen sink, cooking appliance
and refrigeration facilities, each having a clear working space of 30 inches
(762 mm) in front. Light and ventilation conforming to this code shall be
provided.
      (3)   The unit shall be provided with a separate bathroom containing a
water closet, lavatory and bathtub or shower.
      (4)   The maximum number of occupants shall be three.
   (G)   Food preparation. All spaces to be occupied for food preparation
purposes shall contain suitable space and equipment to store, prepare and serve
foods in a sanitary manner. There shall be adequate facilities and services for
the sanitary disposal of food wastes and refuse, including facilities for
temporary storage.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
PLUMBING FACILITIES AND REQUIREMENTS
§158.27 GENERAL.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this section shall govern the minimum
plumbing systems, facilities and plumbing fixtures to be provided.
   (B)   Responsibility. The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain
such plumbing facilities and plumbing fixtures in compliance with these
requirements. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another
person to occupy any structure or premises which does not comply with the
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.28 REQUIRED FACILITIES.
   (A)   Dwelling units. Every dwelling unit shall contain its own bathtub or
shower, lavatory, water closet and kitchen sink which shall be maintained in a
sanitary, safe working condition. The lavatory shall be placed in the same room
as the water closet or located in close proximity to the door leading directly
into the room in which such water closet is located. A kitchen sink shall not
be used as a substitute for the required lavatory.
   (B)   Rooming houses. Not less than one water closet, lavatory and bathtub
or shower shall be supplied for each four rooming units.
   (C)   Hotels. Where private water closets, lavatories and baths are not
provided, one water closet, one lavatory and one bathtub or shower having
access from a public hallway shall be provided for each ten occupants.
   (D)   Employees' facilities. Not less than one water closet, one lavatory
and one drinking facility shall be available to employees.
      (1)   Drinking facilities. Drinking facilities shall be a drinking
fountain, water cooler, bottled water cooler or disposable cups next to a sink
or water dispenser. Drinking facilities shall not be located in toilet rooms or
bathrooms.
   (E)   Public toilet facilities. Public toilet facilities shall be maintained
in a safe, sanitary and working condition in accordance with the most current
adopted Ohio Plumbing Code. Except for periodic maintenance or cleaning, public
access and use shall be provided to the toilet facilities at all times during
occupancy of the premises.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.29 TOILET ROOMS.
   (A)   Privacy. Toilet rooms and bathrooms shall provide privacy and shall
not constitute the only passageway to a hall or other space, or to the
exterior. A door and interior locking device shall be provided for all common
or shared bathrooms and toilet rooms in a multiple dwelling.
   (B)   Location. Toilet rooms and bathrooms serving hotel units, rooming
units or dormitory units or housekeeping units, shall have access by traversing
not more than one flight of stairs and shall have access from a common hall or
passageway.
   (C)   Location of employee toilet facilities. Toilet facilities shall have
access from within the employees' working area. The required toilet facilities
shall be located not more than one story above or below the employees' working
area and the path of travel to such facilities shall not exceed a distance of
500 feet (152 m). Employee facilities shall either be separate facilities or
combined employee and public facilities.
      (1)   Exception: Facilities that are required for employees in storage
structures or kiosks, which are located in adjacent structures under the same
ownership, lease or control, shall not exceed a travel distance of 500 feet
(152 m) from the employees' regular working area to the facilities.
   (D)   Floor surface. Every toilet room floor shall be maintained to be a
smooth, hard, nonabsorbent surface to permit such floor to be easily kept in a
clean and sanitary condition.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.30 PLUMBING SYSTEMS AND FIXTURES.
   (A)   General. All plumbing fixtures shall be properly installed and
maintained in working order, and shall be kept free from obstructions, leaks
and defects and be capable of performing the function for which such plumbing
fixtures are designed. All plumbing fixtures shall be maintained in a safe,
sanitary and functional condition.
   (B)   Fixture clearances. Plumbing fixtures shall have adequate clearances
for usage and cleaning.
   (C)   Plumbing system hazards. Where it is found that a plumbing system in a
structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants or the structure by reason of
non-existent freeze protection, inadequate service, inadequate venting, cross
connection, back siphonage, improper installation, deterioration or damage or
for similar reasons, the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee
shall require the defects to be corrected to eliminate the hazard.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.31 WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   General. Every sink, lavatory, bathtub or shower, drinking fountain,
water closet or other plumbing fixture shall be properly connected to either a
public water system or to an approved private water system. All kitchen sinks,
lavatories, laundry facilities, bathtubs and showers shall be supplied with hot
or tempered and cold running water in accordance with the most current adopted
Ohio Plumbing Code.
   (B)   Contamination. The water supply shall be maintained free from
contamination, and all water inlets for plumbing fixtures shall be located
above the flood-level rim of the fixture. Shampoo basin faucets, janitor sink
faucets and other hose bibs or faucets to which hoses are attached and left in
place, shall be protected by an approved atmospheric-type vacuum breaker or an
approved permanently attached hose connection vacuum breaker.
   (C)   Backflow prevention. Backflow prevention devices where required shall
be installed and maintained operable at all times.
      (1)   Yearly inspection. All installed backflow prevention devices shall
be inspected to ensure proper operation on no less that a yearly basis by
persons licensed to do so by the State of Ohio. Reports of inspections shall be
delivered to the City of West Carrollton Water Clerk.
   (D)   Supply. The water supply system shall be installed and maintained to
provide a supply of water to plumbing fixtures, devices and appurtenances in
sufficient volume and at pressures adequate to enable the fixtures to function
properly, safely, and free from defects and leaks.
   (E)   Water heating facilities. Water heating facilities shall be properly
installed, maintained and capable of providing an adequate amount of water to
be drawn at every required sink, lavatory, bathtub, shower and laundry facility
at a minimum temperature of not less than 110°F (43°C). A gas-burning water
heater shall not be located in any bathroom, toilet room, bedroom or other
occupied room normally kept closed, unless adequate combustion air is provided.
An approved combination temperature and pressure-relief valve and relief valve
discharge pipe shall be properly installed and maintained on water heaters.
   (F)   Nonpotable water reuse systems. Nonpotable water reuse systems and
rainwater collection and conveyance systems shall be maintained in a safe and
sanitary condition. Where such systems are not properly maintained, the system
shall be repaired to provide for safe and sanitary conditions, or the system
shall be abandoned in accordance with division (E)(1) of this section.
      (1)   Abandonment of systems. Where nonpotable water reuse systems and
rainwater collection and conveyance system is not maintained or the owner
ceases use of the system, the system shall be abandoned in accordance with
Section 1301 of the Ohio Plumbing Code.
   (G)   Shut-off-authority. In order to safe guard the public water supply and
to protect public and private property from damage due to leaks, or pipe
bursts, the Chief Code Enforcement Officer shall have the authority to
immediately order the domestic water service turned-off at the curb box to any
property, building or structure deemed not to be adequately safe guarded
against tampering, damage, freezing or under an order of condemnation. Once the
service has been deemed to be adequately safe guarded and/or the order of
condemnation rescinded, the service may be restored only under the direction of
the Chief Code Enforcement Officer. The city shall be held harmless from
damages resulting from any order regarding the termination or reinstatement of
water service. The Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee shall
notify the servicing utility and, whenever possible, the owner or owner's
authorized agent and occupant(s) of the building, structure or service system
of the decision to disconnect prior to taking such action. If unable to make
notification prior to disconnection, the owner, owner's authorized agent or
occupant(s) of the building, structure or service system shall be notified in
writing as soon as practical thereafter.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.32 SANITARY DRAINAGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   General. All plumbing fixtures shall be properly connected to either a
public sewer system or to an approved private sewage disposal system.
   (B)   Maintenance. Every plumbing stack, vent, waste and sewer line shall
function properly and be kept free from obstructions, leaks and defects.
   (C)   Grease interceptors. Grease interceptors and automatic grease removal
devices shall be maintained in accordance with this code, the City of West
Carrollton Public Works Code, the Ohio Plumbing Code and the manufacturers
installation instructions. Grease interceptors and automatic grease removal
devices shall be regularly serviced and cleaned to prevent the discharge of
oil, grease, and other substances harmful or hazardous to the building drainage
system, the public sewer, the private sewage disposal system or the sewage
treatment plant or processes. Records of maintenance, cleaning and repairs
shall be available for inspection by the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his
or her designee.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.33 STORM DRAINAGE.
   Drainage of roofs and paved areas, yards and courts and other open areas on
the premises shall not be discharged in a manner that creates a public
nuisance.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS
§158.34 GENERAL.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this section shall govern the minimum
mechanical and electrical facilities and equipment to be provided.
   (B)   Responsibility. The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain
mechanical and electrical facilities and equipment in compliance with these
requirements. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another
person to occupy any premises which does not comply with the requirements of
this chapter.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.35 HEATING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Facilities required. Heating facilities shall be provided in
structures as required by this section.
   (B)   Residential occupancies. Dwellings shall be provided with non-portable
heating facilities capable of maintaining a room temperature of 68°F (20°C) in
all habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms based on the winter outdoor
design temperature for the locality indicated in the Air Conditioning
Contractors of America Manual J. Cooking appliances shall not be used, nor
shall any type/style of portable space heater be used to provide space heating
to meet the requirements of this section.
      (1)   Exception: In areas where the average monthly temperature is above
30°F (-1°C), a minimum temperature of 65°F (18°C) shall be maintained.
   (C)   Heat supply. Every owner and operator of any building who rents,
leases or lets one or more dwelling units or sleeping units on terms, either
expressed or implied, to furnish heat to the occupants thereof shall supply
heat to maintain a temperature of not less than 68°F (20°C) in all habitable
rooms, bathrooms, and toilet rooms.
      (1)   Exceptions:
         (a)   When the outdoor temperature is below the winter outdoor design
temperature for the locality, maintenance of the minimum room temperature shall
not be required provided that the heating system is operating at its full
design capacity. The winter outdoor design temperature for the locality shall
be as indicated in the Air Conditioning Contractors of America Manual J.
         (b)   In areas where the average monthly temperature is above 30°F (-
1°C) a minimum temperature of 65°F (18°C) shall be maintained.
   (D)   Occupiable work spaces. Indoor occupiable workspaces shall be supplied
with heat to maintain a temperature of not less than 65°F (18°C) during the
period the spaces are occupied.
      (1)   Exceptions:
         (a)   Processing, storage and operation areas that require cooling or
special temperature conditions.
         (b)   Areas in which persons are primarily engaged in vigorous
physical activities.
   (E)   Room temperature measurement. The required room temperatures shall be
measured three feet (914 mm) above the floor near the center of the room and
two feet (610 mm) inward from the center of each exterior wall.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.36 MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Mechanical equipment and appliances. Mechanical equipment, appliances,
fireplaces, solid fuel-burning appliances, cooking appliances and water heating
appliances shall be properly installed and maintained in a safe working
condition, and shall be capable of performing the intended function.
   (B)   Removal of combustion products. All fuel-burning equipment and
appliances shall be connected to an approved chimney or vent.
      (1)   Exception: Fuel-burning equipment and appliances which are labeled
for unvented operation.
   (C)   Clearances. All required clearances to combustible materials shall be
maintained in accordance with the equipment or appliance listing and label.
   (D)   Safety controls. All safety controls for fuel-burning equipment shall
be maintained in effective operation.
   (E)   Combustion air. A supply of air for complete combustion of the fuel
and for ventilation of the space containing the fuel-burning equipment shall be
provided for the fuel-burning equipment.
   (F)   Energy conservation devices. Devices intended to reduce fuel
consumption by attachment to a fuel-burning appliance, to the fuel supply line
thereto, or to the vent outlet or vent piping therefrom, shall not be installed
unless labeled for such purpose and the installation is specifically approved.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.37 ELECTRICAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   Facilities required. Every occupied building shall be provided with an
electrical system in compliance with the requirements of this section and §
158.38.
   (B)   Service. The size and usage of appliances and equipment shall serve as
a basis for determining the need for additional facilities in accordance with
NFPA 70. Dwelling units shall be served by a three-wire, 120/240-volt, single-
phase electrical service having a rating of not less than 100 amperes.
   (C)   Electrical system hazards. Where it is found that the electrical
system in a structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants or the structure by
reason of inadequate service, improper fusing, insufficient receptacle and
lighting outlets, improper wiring or installation, deterioration or damage, or
for similar reasons, the Chief Code Enforcement Officer shall require the
defects to be corrected to eliminate the hazard.
      (1)   Abatement of electrical hazards associated with water exposure. The
provisions of this division shall govern the repair and replacement of
electrical systems and equipment that have been exposed to water.
         (a)   Electrical equipment. Electrical distribution equipment, motor
circuits, power equipment, transformers, wire, cable, flex cords, wiring
devices, ground fault circuit interrupters, surge protectors, molded case
circuit breakers, low-voltage fuses, luminaires, ballasts, motors and
electronic control, signing and communication equipment that have been exposed
to water shall be replaced in accordance with the provisions of the Ohio
Building Code.
         (b)   General exceptions to division (C)(1)(a) of this section: The
following equipment shall be allowed to be repaired where an inspection report
from the equipment manufacturer or approved manufacturer's representative
indicates that the equipment has not sustained damage that requires
replacement:
            1.   Enclosed switches, rated a maximum of 600 volts;
            2.   Busway, rated a maximum of 600 volts;
            3.   Panelboards, rated a maximum of 600 volts;
            4.   Switchboards, rated a maximum of 600 volts;
            5.   Fire pump controllers, rated a maximum of 600 volts;
            6.   Manual and magnetic motor controllers;
            7.   Motor control centers;
            8.   Alternating current high-voltage circuit breakers;
            9.   Low-voltage power circuit breakers;
            10.   Protective relays, meters and current transformers;
            11.   Low- and medium-voltage switchgear;
            12.   Liquid filled transformers;
            13.   Cast-resin transformers;
            14.   Wire or cable that is suitable for wet locations and whose
ends have not been exposed to water;
            15.   Wire or cable, not containing fillers, that is suitable for
wet locations and whose ends have not been exposed to water;
            16.   Luminaires that are listed as submersible;
            17.   Motors;
            18.   Electronic control, signaling and communication equipment.
      (2)   Abatement of electrical hazards associated with fire exposure. The
provisions of this division shall govern the repair and replacement of
electrical systems and equipment that have been exposed to fire.
         (a)   Electrical switches, receptacles and fixtures, including
furnace, water heating, security system and power distribution circuits, that
have not been exposed to fire, shall be replaced in accordance with the
provisions of the Ohio Building Code.
         (b)   General exceptions to division (C)(2)(a) of this section:
Electrical switches, receptacles and fixtures that shall be allowed to be
repaired where an inspection report from the equipment manufacturer or approved
manufacturer's representative indicates that the equipment has not sustained
damage that requires replacement.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.38 ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Installation. All electrical equipment, wiring and appliances shall be
properly installed and maintained in a safe and approved manner.
   (B)   Receptacles. Every habitable space in a dwelling shall contain at
least two separate and remote receptacle outlets. Every laundry area shall
contain at least one grounded-type receptacle or a receptacle with a ground
fault circuit interrupter. Every bathroom shall contain at least one
receptacle. Any new bathroom receptacle outlet shall have ground fault circuit
interrupter protection. All receptacle outlets shall have the appropriate
faceplate cover for the location.
   (C)   Luminaires. Every public hall, interior stairway, toilet room,
kitchen, bathroom, laundry room, boiler room and furnace room shall contain not
less than one electric luminaire. Pool and spa luminaires over 15 volts shall
have ground fault circuit interruption protection.
   (D)   Wiring. Flexible cords shall not be used for permanent wiring, or for
running through doors, windows, or cabinets, or concealed within walls, floors
or ceilings.
   (E)   Generators. Portable generators shall not be used to provide the
primary electrical needs for any building or structure.
      (1)   Exception: Portable generators may be utilized during times of
emergency or after a natural disaster provided, they are operating in
accordance with their listing and label. Electrical services shut-off by the
service provider for non-payment of bill shall not be considered an emergency.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.39 ELEVATORS, ESCALATORS AND DUMBWAITERS.
   (A)   General. Elevators, dumbwaiters and escalators shall be maintained in
compliance with ASME A17.1. The most current certificate of inspection shall be
on display at all times within the elevator or attached to the escalator or
dumbwaiter, be available for public inspection in the office of the building
operator or be posted in a publicly conspicuous location approved by the Chief
Code Officer. The inspection and tests shall be performed not less than the
periodic intervals listed in ASME A17.1, Appendix N, except where otherwise
specified by the authority having jurisdiction.
   (B)   Elevators. In buildings equipped with passenger elevators, not less
than one elevator shall be maintained in operation at all times when the
building is occupied.
      (1)   Exception: Buildings equipped with only one elevator shall be
permitted to have the elevator temporarily out of service for testing or
servicing.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.40 DUCT SYSTEMS.
   Duct systems shall be maintained free of obstructions, properly supported
and shall be capable of performing the required function.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
FIRE SAFETY REQUIREMENTS
§158.41 GENERAL.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this section shall govern the minimum
conditions and standards for fire safety relating to structures and exterior
premises, including fire safety facilities and equipment to be provided.
   (B)   Responsibility. The owner of the premises shall provide and maintain
such fire safety facilities and equipment in compliance with these
requirements. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another
person to occupy any premises that do not comply with the requirements of this
chapter.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.42 MEANS OF EGRESS.
   (A)   General. A safe, continuous and unobstructed path of travel shall be
provided from any point in a building or structure to the public way. Means of
egress shall comply with the Ohio Fire Code.
   (B)   Aisles. The required width of aisles shall be in accordance with the
Ohio Fire Code and Ohio Building Code and shall remain unobstructed.
   (C)   Locked doors. Means of egress doors shall be readily openable from the
side from which egress is to be made without the need for keys, special
knowledge or effort, except where door hardware conforms to that permitted by
the Ohio Fire Code and in the Ohio Building Code.
   (D)   Emergency escape openings. Required emergency escape and rescue
openings shall be maintained in accordance with the code in effect at the time
of construction and the following. Required emergency escape and rescue
openings shall be operational from the inside of the room without the use of
keys or tools. Bars, grills, grates, or similar devices are permitted to be
placed over emergency escape and rescue openings provided the minimum net clear
opening size complies with the code that was in effect at the time of
construction and such devices shall be releasable or removable from the inside
without the use of a key, tool, or force greater than that which is required
for normal operation of the escape and rescue opening.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.43 FIRE-RESISTANCE RATINGS.
   (A)   Fire-resistance-rated assemblies. The provisions of this section shall
govern maintenance of materials, systems and assemblies used for structural
fire resistance and fire-resistance-rated construction separation of adjacent
spaces to safeguard against the spread of fire and smoke within a building and
the spread of fire to or from buildings.
   (B)   Unsafe conditions. Where any components are not maintained and do not
function as intended or do not have the fire resistance required by the code
under which the building was constructed or altered, such components or
portions thereof shall be deemed unsafe conditions in accordance with Section
111.1.1 of the Ohio Fire Code. Components or portions thereof determined to be
unsafe shall be repaired or replaced to conform to that code under which the
building was constructed or altered. Where conditions of components is such
that any building, structure or portion thereof presents an imminent danger to
the occupants of the building, structure or portion thereof, the Fire Code
Official or his or her designee shall act in accordance with Section 111.2 of
the Ohio Fire Code.
   (C)   Maintenance. The required fire resistance rating of fire-resistance-
rated construction, including walls, firestops, shaft enclosures, partitions,
smoke barriers, floors, fire-resistive coatings and sprayed fire-resistive
materials applied to structural members and joint systems, shall be maintained.
Such elements shall be visually inspected annually by the owner and repaired,
restored or replaced where damaged, altered, breached or penetrated. Records of
inspections and repairs shall be maintained. Where concealed, such elements
shall not be required to be visually inspected by the owner unless the
concealed space is accessible by the removal or movement of a panel, access
door, ceiling tile or entry to the space. Openings made therein for the passage
of pipes, electrical conduit, wires, ducts, air-transfer and any other reason
shall be protected with approved methods capable of resisting the passage of
smoke and fire. Openings through fire-resistance-rated assemblies shall be
protected by self- or automatic-closing doors of approved construction meeting
the fire protection requirements for the assembly.
      (1)   Fire blocking and draft stopping. Required fire blocking and draft
stopping in combustible concealed spaces shall be maintained to provide
continuity and integrity of the construction.
      (2)   Smoke barriers and smoke partitions. Required smoke barriers and
smoke partitions shall be maintained to prevent the passage of smoke. Openings
protected with approved smoke barrier doors or smoke dampers shall be
maintained in accordance with NFPA 105.
      (3)   Fire walls, fire barriers, and fire partitions. Required fire
walls, fire barriers, and fire partitions shall be maintained to prevent the
passage of fire. Openings protected with approved doors or dampers shall be
maintained in accordance with NFPA 80.
   (D)   Opening protectives. Opening protectives shall be maintained in an
operative condition in accordance with NFPA 80. The application of field-
applied labels associated with the maintenance of opening protectives shall
follow the requirements of the approved third-party certification organization
accredited for listing the opening protective. Fire doors and smoke barrier
doors shall not be blocked or obstructed or otherwise made inoperable. Fusible
links shall be replaced whenever fused or damaged. Fire door assemblies shall
not be modified.
      (1)   Signs. Where required by the Fire Code Official or his or her
designee, a sign shall be permanently displayed on or near each fire door in
letters not less than one inch (25 mm) high and to read as follows:
         (a)   For doors designed to be kept normally opened: FIRE DOOR - DO
NOT BLOCK.
         (b)   For doors designed to be kept normally closed: FIRE DOOR - KEEP
CLOSED.
      (2)   Hold-open devices and closers. Hold-open devices and automatic door
closers shall be maintained. During the period that such a device is out of
service for repairs, the door it operates shall remain in the closed position.
      (3)   Door operation. Swinging fire doors shall close from the full-open
position and latch automatically. The door closer shall exert enough force to
close and latch the door from any partially open position.
   (E)   Ceilings. The hanging and displaying of salable goods and other
decorative materials from acoustical ceiling systems that are part of a fire-
resistive-rated horizontal assembly shall be prohibited.
   (F)   Testing. Horizontal and vertical sliding and rolling fire doors shall
be inspected and tested annually to confirm operation and full closure. Records
of inspections and testing shall be maintained.
   (G)   Vertical shafts. Interior vertical shafts, including stairways,
elevator hoistways and service and utility shafts, which connect two or more
stories of a building shall be enclosed or protected as required in Chapter 11
of the Ohio Fire Code. New floor opening in existing buildings shall comply
with the Ohio Building Code.
   (H)   Opening protective closers. Where openings are required to be
protected, opening protectives shall be maintained self-closing or automatic-
closing by smoke detection. Existing fusible-link-type automatic door-closing
devices shall be replaced if the fusible link rating exceeds 135° Fahrenheit
(57° Celsius).
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.44 FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Inspection, testing and maintenance. Fire detection, alarm and
extinguishing systems, mechanical smoke exhaust systems, and smoke and heat
vents shall be maintained in an operative condition at all times, and shall be
replaced or repaired where defective in accordance with the Ohio Fire Code.
      (1)   Installation. Fire protection systems shall be maintained in
accordance with the original installation standards for that system. Required
systems shall be extended, altered or augmented as necessary to maintain and
continue protection where the building is altered or enlarged. Alterations to
fire protection systems shall be done in accordance with applicable standards.
      (2)   Required fire protection systems. Fire protection systems required
by this code, the Ohio Fire Code or the Ohio Building Code shall be installed,
repaired, operated, tested and maintained in accordance with this code. A fire
protection system for which a design option, exception or reduction to the
provisions of this code, the Ohio Fire Code or the Ohio Building Code has been
granted shall be considered to be a required system.
      (3)   Fire protection systems. Fire protection systems shall be
inspected, maintained and tested in accordance with the following Ohio Fire
Code requirements:
         (a)   Automatic sprinkler systems, see Section 903.5;
         (b)   Automatic fire-extinguishing systems protecting commercial
cooking systems. See Section 904.12.5;
         (c)   Automatic water mist extinguishing systems, see Section 904.11;
         (d)   Carbon dioxide extinguishing systems, see Section 904.8;
         (f)   Carbon monoxide alarms and carbon monoxide detection systems,
see Section 915.6;
         (g)   Clean-agent extinguishing systems, see Section 904.10;
         (h)   Dry-chemical extinguishing systems, see Section 904.6;
         (i)   Fire alarm and fire detection systems, see Section 907.8;
         (j)   Fire department connections, see Sections 912.4 and 912.7;
         (k)   Fire pumps, see Section 913.5;
         (l)   Foam extinguishing systems, see Section 904.7;
         (m)   Halon extinguishing systems, see Section 904.9;
         (n)   Single- and multiple-station smoke alarms, see Section 907.10;
         (o)   Smoke and heat vents and mechanical smoke removal systems, see
Section 910.5;
         (p)   Smoke control systems, see Section 909.20;
         (q)   Wet-chemical extinguishing systems, see Section 904.5.
   (B)   Standards. Fire protection systems shall be inspected, tested and
maintained in accordance with the referenced standards listed in Table 158.44
(B) and as required in this section.
   Table 158.44(B)
   Standard Protection System Maintenance Standards
System Standard
System                                    Standard
Portable fire extinguishers               NFPA 10
Carbon-dioxide fire-extinguishing systems NFPA 12
Halon 1301 fire-extinguishing systems     NFPA 12A
Dry-chemical extinguishing systems        NFPA 17
Wet-chemical extinguishing systems        NFPA 17A
Water-based fire protection systems       NFPA 25
Fire alarm systems                        NFPA 72
Smoke and heat vents                      NFPA 204
Water-mist systems                        NFPA 750
Clean-agent extinguishing systems         NFPA 2001
 
      (1)   Records. Records shall be maintained of all systems inspections,
tests, and maintenance required by the referenced standards.
      (2)   Records information. Initial shall include the: name of the
installation contractor; type of components installed; manufacture of
components; location and number of components installed per floor; and
manufactures' operation and maintenance for the life of the installation.
   (C)   Systems out of service. Where a required protection system is out of
service, the Fire Department, Fire Code Official or his or her designee shall
be notified immediately and, where required by the Fire Code Official, either
the building shall be evacuated or an approved fire watch shall be provided for
all occupants left unprotected by the shutdown until the fire protection system
has been returned to service. Where the Fire Code Official orders the building
evacuated, the Chief Code Enforcement Officer shall placard the building
condemned until such time as the protection system has been placed back into
service and approved by the Fire Code Official. Where utilized, fire watches
shall be provided with not less than one approved means for notification of the
Fire Department and shall not have duties beyond performing constant patrols of
the protected premises and keeping watch for fires. Actions shall be taken in
accordance with Section 901 of the Ohio Fire Code to bring the system back into
service.
      (1)   Emergency impairments. When unplanned impairments of fire
protection systems occur, appropriate emergency action plan shall be taken to
minimize potential injury and damage. The impairment coordinator shall
implement the steps outlined in Section 901.7.4 of the Ohio Fire Code.
   (D)   Removal of or tampering with equipment. It shall be unlawful for any
person to remove, tamper with or otherwise disturb any fire hydrant, fire
detection and alarm system, fire suppression system or other fire appliance
required by this code except for the purposes of extinguishing fire, training,
recharging, or making necessary repairs. Whoever violates this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and charge so under R.C. §2909.07
(A)(4). Should a violation of this section create a risk of physical harm to
any person, the charge shall be upgraded to a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (1)   Removal of or tampering with appurtenances. Locks, gates, doors,
barricades, chains enclosures, signs, tags and seals that have been installed
by or at the direction of the Fire Code Official or his or her designee shall
not be removed, unlocked, destroyed or tampered within any manner. Whoever
violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and
charge so under R.C. §2909.07(A)(4). Should a violation of this section create
a risk of physical harm to any person, the charge shall be upgraded to a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Removal of existing occupant-use hose lines. The Fire Code Official
or his or her designee is authorized to permit the removal of existing
occupant-use hose lines where all of the following apply:
         (a)   The installation is not required by the Ohio Fire Code or the
Ohio Building Code;
         (b)   The hose line would not be utilized by trained personnel or the
Fire Department; and
         (c)   The remaining outlets are compatible with local Fire Department
fittings.
      (3)   Termination of monitoring service. For fire alarm systems required
to be monitored by the Ohio Fire Code, notice shall be made to the Fire Code
Official or his or her designee whenever alarm monitoring services are
terminated. Notice shall be made in writing by the provider of the monitoring
service being terminated.
   (E)   Fire Department connection. Where the Fire Department connection is
not visible to approaching fire apparatus, the Fire Department connection shall
be indicated by an approved sign mounted on the street front or on the side of
the building. Such sign shall have the letters "FDC" not less than six inches
(152 mm) and the words in letters not less than two inches (51 mm) high or an
arrow to indicate the location. Such signs shall be subject to the approval of
the Fire Code Official.
      (1)   Fire Department connection access. Ready access to Fire Department
connection shall be maintained at all times and without obstruction by fences,
bushes, trees, walls or any other fixed or movable object. Access to Fire
Department connections shall be approved by the Fire Code Chief.
         (a)   Exception: Fences, where provided with an access gate equipped
with a sign complying with the legend requirements of Section 912.5 of the Ohio
Fire Code and a means of emergency operation. The gate and the means of
emergency operation shall be approved by the Fire Chief and maintained
operational at all times.
      (2)   Clear space around connections. A working space of not less than 36
inches (914 mm) in width, 36 inches (914 mm) in depth 78 inches (1,981 mm) in
height shall be provided and maintained in front of and to the sides of wall-
mounted Fire Department connections and around the circumference of free-
standing Fire Department connections.
   (F)   Single- and multiple-station smoke alarms. Single- and multiple-
station smoke alarms shall be installed in existing group I-1 and R occupancies
in accordance with divisions (F)(1) through (F)(7) of this section.
      (1)   Where required. Existing group I-1 and R occupancies shall be
provided with single-station smoke alarms in accordance with divisions (F)(2)
through (F)(5) of this section. Interconnection and power sources shall be in
accordance with divisions (F)(6) and (F)(7) of this section.
         (a)   Exceptions:
            1.   Where the code that was in effect at the time of the
construction required smoke alarms and smoke alarms complying with those
requirements are already provided;
            2.   Where smoke alarms have been installed in occupancies and
dwellings that were not required to have them at the time of construction,
additional smoke alarms shall not be required provided that the existing smoke
alarms comply with requirements that were in effect at the time of
installation;
            3.   Where smoke detectors connected to a fire alarm system have
been installed as a substitute for smoke alarms;
      (2)   Group R-1. Single- or multiple-station smoke alarms shall be
installed in all of the following locations in Group R-1:
         (a)   In sleeping areas;
         (b)   In every room in the path of the means or egress from the
sleeping area to the door leading from the sleeping unit;
         (c)   In each story of the sleeping unit, including basements. For
sleeping units with split levels and without an intervening door between the
adjacent levels, a smoke alarm installed on the upper level shall suffice for
the adjacent lower level provided that the lower level is less than one full
story below the upper level.
      (3)   Groups R-2, R-3, R-4 and I-1. Single- or multiple-station smoke
alarms shall be installed and maintained in Groups R-2, R-3, R-4 and I-
1 regardless of occupant load at all of the following locations:
         (a)   On the ceiling or wall outside of each separate sleeping area in
the immediate vicinity of bedrooms;
         (b)   In each room used for sleeping purposes;
         (c)   In each story within a dwelling unit, including basements but
not including crawl spaces and uninhabitable attics. In dwelling or dwelling
units with split levels and without an intervening door between the adjacent
levels, a smoke alarm installed on the upper level shall suffice for the
adjacent lower level provided that the lower level is less than one full story
below the upper level.
      (4)   Installation near cooking appliances. Smoke alarms shall not be
installed in the following locations unless this would prevent placement of a
smoke alarm in a location required by divisions (F)(2) or (F)(3) of this
section.
         (a)   Ionization smoke alarms shall not be installed less than 20 feet
(6,096 mm) horizontally from a permanently installed cooking appliance;
         (b)   Ionization smoke alarms with an alarm-silencing switch shall not
be installed less than ten feet (3,048 mm) horizontally from a permanently
installed cooking appliance;
         (c)   Photoelectric smoke alarms shall not be installed less than six
feet (1,829 mm) horizontally from a permanently installed cooking appliance.
      (5)   Installation near bathrooms. Smoke alarms shall be installed not
less than three feet (914 mm) horizontally from the door or opening of a
bathroom that contains a tub or shower unless this would prevent placement of a
smoke detector required by divisions (F)(2) or (F)(3) of this section.
      (6)   Interconnection. Where more than one smoke alarm is required to be
installed within an individual dwelling or sleeping unit, the smoke alarms
shall be interconnected in such a manner that the activation of one alarm will
activate all of the alarms in the individual unit. Physical interconnection of
smoke alarms shall not be required where listed wireless alarms are installed
and all alarms sound upon activation of one alarm. The alarm shall be clearly
audible in all bedrooms over background noise levels with all intervening doors
closed.
         (a)   Exceptions:
            1.   Interconnection is not required in buildings that are not
undergoing alterations, repairs or construction of any kind.
            2.   Smoke alarms in existing areas are not required to be
interconnected where alterations or repairs do not result in the removal of
interior wall or ceiling finishes exposing the structure, unless there is an
attic, crawl space or basement available that could provide access for
interconnection without the removal of interior finishes.
      (7)   Power source. Single-station smoke alarms shall receive their
primary power form the building wiring provided such wiring is served from a
commercial source and shall be equipped with a battery backup. Smoke alarms
with integral strobes that are not equipped with battery backup shall be
connected to an emergency electrical system. Smoke alarms shall emit a signal
when the batteries are low. Wiring shall be permanent and without a
disconnecting switch other than as required for overcurrent protection.
         (a)   Exceptions:
            1.   Smoke alarms are permitted to be solely battery operated in
existing buildings where construction is not taking place.
            2.   Smoke alarms are permitted to be solely battery operated in
buildings that are not served from a commercial power source.
            3.   Smoke alarms are permitted to be solely battery operated in
existing areas of buildings undergoing alterations or repairs that do not
result in the removal of interior walls or ceiling finishes exposing the
structure, unless there is an attic, crawl space or basement available that
could provide access for building wiring without the removal of interior
finishes.
      (8)   Smoke detection system. Smoke detectors listed in accordance with
UL 268 and provided as part of the building's fire alarm system shall be an
acceptable alternative to single- and multiple-station smoke alarms and shall
comply with the following:
         (a)   The fire alarm system shall comply with all applicable
requirements in Section 907 of the Ohio Fire Code.
         (b)   Activation of a smoke detector in a dwelling or sleeping unit
shall initiate alarm notification in the dwelling or sleeping unit in
accordance with Section 907.5.2 of the Ohio Fire Code.
         (c)   Activation of a smoke alarm in a dwelling or sleeping unit shall
not activate alarm notification appliances outside of the dwelling or sleeping
unit, provided that the supervisory signal is generated and monitored in
accordance with Section 907.6.6 of the Ohio Fire Code.
   (G)   Single- and multiple-station smoke alarms. Single- and multiple-
station smoke alarms shall be tested and maintained in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions. Smoke alarms that do not function shall be
replaced. Smoke alarms in one- and two-family dwellings shall be replaced not
more than ten years from the date of manufacture marked on the unit, or shall
be replaced if the date of manufacturing cannot be determined.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.45 CARBON MONOXIDE ALARMS AND DETECTION.
   (A)   General. Carbon monoxide alarms shall be installed in dwellings in
accordance with Section 1103.9 of the Ohio Fire Code, except that alarms in
dwellings covered by the Residential Code of Ohio shall be installed in
accordance with Section R315 of that Code.
   (B)   Carbon monoxide alarms and detectors. Carbon monoxide alarms and
carbon monoxide detection systems shall be maintained in accordance with NFPA
720. Carbon monoxide alarms and carbon monoxide detectors that become
inoperable or begin producing end-of-life signals shall be replaced.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
BOARDING STANDARDS
§158.46 UNOCCUPIED, VACANT, AND ABANDONED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   General. Every foundation, exterior floor, exterior wall, exterior
window, exterior door, soffit, facia, roof and any other area of the exterior
envelope of every unoccupied, vacant or abandoned structure shall be maintained
and kept in good repair and in such safe condition so as to make interior areas
weathertight, watertight, and rodent proof so as to prevent the structure from
becoming harbors for rats, vermin or insects, to prevent unauthorized entry of
the structures and to eliminate unsafe conditions.
   (B)   Minimum standards for effective boarding. The effective boarding of a
structure shall include, but not be limited to, doors, windows, walls, roofs or
other areas open to ingress or egress and weather elements. Such openings shall
be secured by exterior grade structural panels not less than 1/2 inch thick, or
other material of equal strength approved by the Code Official. Boarding shall
be neatly cut and fitted into the opening and secured. All boarding shall be
painted to match the exterior color scheme of the structure.
   (C)   Unsecure vacant buildings. Whenever the Code Official finds an
unoccupied, vacant or abandoned structure open to entry, the Code Official
shall contact the owner, lessee, agent, or tenant having charge of the
property, premise or structure and notify them that the structure is open and
shall be secured. Should the whereabouts of the owner, lessee, agent, or tenant
having charge of the property, premise or structure be unknown or be
unascertainable by reasonable means or should the owner, lessee, agent, or
tenant having charge of the property, premise or structure fail to secure the
open structure, the Code Official shall cause the structure to be secured at
those points of entry. The Code Official shall be authorized to enter upon the
premises only to the extent to secure the structure. Subsequent notice shall
include the fact that the Code Official has found it necessary to take
appropriate action to secure the structure.
   (D)   In the event the owner, lessee, agent, or tenant having charge of the
property, premise or structure fails to secure the open structure or after
reasonable attempts to contact the owner, lessee, agent, or tenant having
charge of the property, premise or structure to notify them to secure the
structure have failed, the City Manager or his or her designee is hereby
authorized to have structure secured by a private contractor and to invoice the
owner for the cost incurred by the city in having such structure secured,
including an administrative fee assessed at the current rate as set forth in
Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the City of
West Carrollton. In the event the costs are not paid within 30 days after
mailing of the invoice, then such amount shall be certified to the County
Auditor for collection, the same as other taxes or assessments are collected.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
RESIDENTIAL RENTAL REGISTRATION
AND EDUCATION PROGRAM
§158.47 GENERAL.
   (A)   The purposes of this section are to protect the public health, safety,
and welfare by establishing minimum standards and procedures governing the
maintenance, appearance, and condition of all rental housing properties; to
impose certain responsibilities and duties upon the owner, responsible agent,
and tenant and to ensure they are educated about those responsibilities; to
authorize and establish procedures for mandatory registration and exterior
inspections of rental property to ensure compliance with the Property
Maintenance Code, Zoning Code, Ohio Building Code, Ohio Fire Code, and the
Residential Code of Ohio; and to fix penalties for violations of this section.
This section is hereby declared to be remedial and essential for the public
interest, and it is intended that this section be liberally construed to
effectuate the purpose as stated herein.
   (B)   This section shall apply to all rental units and/or rental property
and shall also apply to all common areas within the structure(s) or on the
premises.
   (C)   Administration of the Residential Rental Registration & Education
Program in no way negates or eliminates the right of the Code Official to
request, be invited or to seek an administrative search warrant to conduct an
interior inspection of any rental unit and/or rental property as provided by §
158.04.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.48 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Owners of one or more rental units and/or rental properly located
within the city shall comply with all requirements of the Montgomery County
Residential Rental Property Registration program enabled by R.C. Chapter 5323:
Residential Rental Property no later than June 30, 2017.
   (B)   Owners of one or more rental units and/or rental property located
within the city shall update the information required under division (A) of
this section within 60 days after any change in the information occurs, as
required by R.C. §5323.02(C).
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.49 INSPECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Code Official shall inspect the exterior of all rental units and/
or rental property, as well as the interior common areas of multi-family
residential rental buildings, once every two years to determine compliance with
the Property Maintenance Code, Zoning Code, Ohio Building Code, Ohio Fire Code,
and the Residential Code of Ohio.
   (B)   The Code Official shall conduct all inspections in accordance with the
requirements of §
158.04, and shall obtain affirmative consent by the owner, responsible agent,
and/or tenant to access the front, side and rear yards of the property and the
interior common areas of multi-family residential rental buildings. If said
consent is not granted, the Code Official may seek an administrative warrant as
provided by law to gain access to the property in order to conduct the
inspection.
   (C)   The owner and responsible agent have no legal obligation to obtain
from any tenant, on behalf of the Code Official, consent for the Code Official
to perform any inspection or re-inspection.
   (D)   A scheduled inspection or re-inspection may be rescheduled with no
less than seven days prior notice to the Code Official without incurring a re-
inspection fee as provided in §
158.51.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.50 NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Within 90 days after the effective date of this chapter, the Code
Official shall issue written notification to all known owners of rental units
and/or rental property located within the city describing the requirements of
the Residential Rental Registration & Education Program and the penalties for
failing to comply with said requirements. This notification shall be delivered
by ordinary mail to the owner's last known mailing address, and shall be
evidenced by a certificate of mailing.
   (B)   Thereafter, the Code Official shall annually cause a notice to be
published in a newspaper of general circulation within the city, placing owners
of rental units and/or rental property on notice regarding the requirements of
the Residential Rental Registration & Education Program and the penalties for
failing to comply with said requirements. The notice shall not be required to
describe the lands or to specify the name of the owner of said property, but
shall constitute notice regarding the program to any owner, responsible agent,
or tenant having charge of any rental unit and/or rental property which is let
for occupancy, let or leased for residential purposes. Such notice shall be
published one time in order to constitute notice hereafter. No further notice
or publication shall be required in order to institute appropriate action to
restrain, correct or abate a violation of this program.
   (C)   The Code Official shall establish an inspection schedule identifying
the month and year when all registered rental units and/or rental property are
anticipated to be inspected during the initial two year inspection period. As
soon as practicable, the Code Official shall issue notification to all owners
and responsible agents by ordinary mail and/or posting on the property as to
the anticipated month and year in which their initial inspection will be
conducted. Owners and/or responsible agents shall communicate this information
in writing to all tenants as soon as practicable after receiving notice from
the Code Official.
   (D)   At least two weeks prior to the date of the inspection of a rental
unit and/or rental property, the Code Official shall issue notification to the
owner and responsible agent by ordinary mail and/or posting on the property of
the inspection date and time. This notice shall inform the owner and
responsible agent that affirmative consent is needed in order for the Code
Official to enter upon private property, and if that consent is not granted the
Code Official may seek an administrative warrant as provided by law to gain
access to the property in order to conduct the inspection. Owners and/or
responsible agents shall communicate this information in writing to all tenants
as soon as practicable after receiving notice from the Code Official, but no
later than 72 hours prior to the scheduled inspection time.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.51 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Registration. A late fee as set forth in
Chapter 37: General Fee Schedule shall be instituted for failure to comply with
the registration requirements of §
158.48, and shall be paid by the owner or responsible agent who is responsible
for correcting the violations. Notice shall be accompanied by a statement of
the amount of cost incurred, and in the event the same is not paid within 30
days after the mailing of the notice, then such amount shall be certified to
the County Auditor for collection the same as other taxes and assessments are
collected.
   (B)   Inspections.
      (1)   Failure of an owner, responsible agent, or tenant of a rental unit
and/or rental property to appear for a scheduled inspection or re-inspection
shall result in a re-inspection fee being charged as set forth in §
158.13. No owner shall be penalized where any inspection or re-inspection is
delayed or does not occur as the result of actions by the tenant, provided
neither party has colluded or attempted to collude with the other to delay or
prevent said inspection from being conducted.
      (2)   Whenever the Code Official determines during an inspection that one
or more violations exist in a rental unit and/or on a rental property, a notice
of violation or order shall be given to the owner and responsible agent in
accordance with the provisions of §
158.07.
      (3)   Failure to comply with a notice of violation or order issued in
accordance with division (B)(2) of this section shall result in a re-inspection
fee being assessed to the rental unit and/or rental property as set forth in §
158.13. The owner and responsible agent shall also be subject to recourse
pursuant to §
158.06.
   (C)   Education. An owner or responsible agent of a rental unit and/or
rental property who has been issued a notice of violation or order containing
life safety violations in two successive inspections shall be required to
attend a landlord continuing education course approved by the Code Official in
consultation with rental industry representatives. Written verification of the
completion of the continuing education course by the owner or responsible agent
shall be provided to the Code Official by the education provider.
   (D)   An owner or responsible agent failing to comply with any requirement
of the Residential Rental Registration & Education Program shall also be
subject to recourse pursuant to §
158.99.
   (E)   A proper and timely filed appeal as provided in §
158.52 shall stay any and all enforcement proceedings until a final decision is
rendered regarding said appeal.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.52 APPEAL.
   Any owner aggrieved by the action of the Code Official in the administration
and/or enforcement of this section shall have the right to appeal that action
to the Board of Zoning Appeals in the manner prescribed in §
158.12.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.53 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   An inspection is not a warranty or guarantee that there are no defects in
the rental unit or on the rental property, and the Code Official shall not be
liable to any person or entity for the condition of the rental unit and/or
rental property.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.54 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of the Residential
Rental Registration & Education Program shall be declared invalid for any
reason whatsoever, such decision shall not affect the remaining portions of the
Residential Rental Registration & Education Program, which shall remain in full
force and effect.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.97 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE AND NUISANCE COMPLIANCE TIMES*.
Violation Section Number Compliance time
Violation                                  Section Number Compliance time
Unsafe Structures & Equipment              158.08 (all)   Immediate
Emergency Measures                         158.09 (all)   Immediate
Demolition                                 158.11 (all)   Immediate to 45 days
General requirements                       158.15 (all)   Immediate to 30 days
Sanitation                                 158.16(A)      Immediate to 5 days
Grading and Drainage                       158.16(B)      15 to 30 days
Sidewalks, Curbs and Driveways             158.16(C)      Immediate to 45 days
Weeds and Grasses                          158.16(D)      Reference Ordinance
Trees and shrubs                           158.16(E)      Immediate to 30 days
Rodent harborage                           158.16(F)      Immediate to 10 days
Exhaust vents                              158.16(G)      10 to 30 days
Accessory structures                       158.16(H)      Immediate to 45 days
Motor and recreational vehicles            158.16(I)      Reference Ordinance
Unpaved parking                            158.16(J)      24 hours
Defacement of property                     158.16(K)      Immediate to 30 days
Ground cover                               158.16(L)      15 to 30 days
Traffic markings                           158.16(M)      15 to 45 days
Lighting                                   158.16(N)      24 hours to 5 days
Storing construction materials             158.16(O)      Reference Ordinance
Outside Storage - Occupied Properties      158.16(P)      Immediate to 5 days
Outside Storage - Vacant Properties        158.16(Q)      5 Days
Firewood                                   158.16(R)      Immediate to 5 days
Swimming pools                             158.17(A)      Reference Ordinance
Swimming pool enclosures                   158.17(B)      Immediate
Exterior structure general                 158.18(A)      Immediate to 30 days
Protective treatment                       158.18(B)      15 to 45 days
Premises identification                    158.18(C)      Immediate to 10 days
Structural members                         158.18(D)      Immediate to 45 days
Foundation walls                           158.18(E)      Immediate to 45 days
Exterior walls                             158.18(F)      Immediate to 45 days
Roofs and drainage                         158.18(G)      Immediate to 45 days
Decorative features                        158.18(H)      Immediate to 45 days
Overhang extensions                        158.18(I)      Immediate to 45 days
Stairways, decks, porches & balconies      158.18(J)      Immediate to 45 days
Chimneys and towers                        158.18(K)      Immediate to 45 days
Handrails and guards                       158.18(L)      Immediate to 45 days
Windows, skylights & door frames           158.18(M)      Immediate to 45 days
Insect screens                             158.18(N)      15 to 45 days
Doors                                      158.18(O)      Immediate to 30 days
Basement hatchways                         158.18(P)      Immediate to 30 days
Guards for basement windows                158.18(Q)      Immediate to 30 days
Building security                          158.18(R)      Immediate to 30 days
Gates                                      158.18(S)      Immediate to 30 days
Interior structures - General              158.19(A)      Immediate to 30 days
Structural members                         158.19(B)      Immediate to 45 days
Interior surfaces                          158.19(C)      Immediate to 30 days
Stairs and walking surfaces                158.19(D)      Immediate to 45 days
Handrails and guards                       158.19(E)      Immediate to 45 days
Interior doors                             158.19(F)      Immediate to 30 days
Component serviceability                   158.20(A)      Immediate to 45 days
Rubbish and garbage                        158.21(all)    Reference Ordinance
Extermination                              158.22(all)    Immediate to 10 days
Light, ventilation & occupancy limitations 158.23(all)    Immediate to 30 days
Light                                      158.24(all)    Immediate to 30 days
Ventilation                                158.25(all)    Immediate to 30 days
Occupancy limitations                      158.26(all)    Immediate to 30 days
Plumbing facilities and requirements       158.27(all)    Immediate to 45 days
Required facilities                        158.28(all)    Immediate to 45 days
Toilet rooms                               158.29(all)    Immediate to 45 days
Plumbing systems and fixtures              158.30(all)    Immediate to 45 days
Water systems                              158.31(all)    Immediate to 45 days
Sanitary drainage systems                  158.32(all)    Immediate to 45 days
Storm drainage                             158.33(all)    Immediate to 30 days
Mechanical and electrical requirements     158.34(all)    Immediate to 30 days
Heating facilities                         158.35(all)    Immediate to 30 days
Mechanical equipment                       158.36(all)    Immediate to 30 days
Electrical facilities                      158.37(all)    Immediate to 30 days
Electrical equipment                       158.38(all)    Immediate to 30 days
Elevators, escalators and dumbwaiters      158.39(all)    Immediate to 30 days
Duct systems                               158.40(all)    Immediate to 45 days
Fire safety requirements                   158.41(all)    Immediate to 45 days
Means of egress                            158.42(all)    Immediate to 45 days
Fire - resistance ratings                  158.43(all)    Immediate to 45 days
Fire - protection systems                  158.44(all)    Immediate to 45 days
Carbon monoxide alarms and detectors       158.45         Immediate to 45 days
Unoccupied, vacant & abandoned structures  158.46(all)    Reference Ordinance
RRR & E Program                            158.47-        Reference Ordinance
                                           158.53
 
*These are typical compliance time limits. They can vary depending on season,
circumstance of violation, progress made by violator, extensions, etc.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
REFERENCED STANDARDS
§158.98 REFERENCED STANDARDS.
   This section lists the standards that are referenced in various sections of
this chapter. The application of the standards shall be as specified in §
158.02(G). The most current standard shall apply.
Standards
Residential Code of Ohio
Ohio Building Code
National Electrical Code
Ohio Fire Code
Ohio Plumbing Code
Ohio Mechanical Code
Ohio Department of Transportation, Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices
(MUTCD)
West Carrollton
Chapter 152, Subdivision Code
West Carrollton
Chapter 153, Sign Code
West Carrollton Chapter 154, Zoning Code
West Carrollton Chapter 156, Flood Damage Prevention Code
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
§158.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate a provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to the following penalties at the discretion of
the court.
   (A)   A first offense shall be deemed a fourth-degree misdemeanor. The court
shall impose upon the offender a fine of not more than $250 but not less than
$150, or may impose a sentence of imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or
may impose both such a fine and sentence of imprisonment.
   (B)   A second offense (whether or not of the same section of this chapter),
occurring not sooner than 180 days and not later than two years after the
occurrence of the first offense, shall be deemed a third-degree misdemeanor.
The court shall impose upon the offender a fine of not more than $500 but not
less than $250, or may impose a sentence of imprisonment for not more than 60
days, or may impose such a fine and sentence of imprisonment.
   (C)   A third offense (whether or not of the same section of this chapter),
occurring not sooner than 180 days and not later than two years after the
occurrence of the second offense, shall be deemed a second-degree misdemeanor.
The court shall impose upon the offender a fine of not more than $750 but not
less than $500, or may impose a sentence of imprisonment for not more than 90
days, or may impose such a fine and sentence of imprisonment.
   (D)   A fourth or any subsequent offense (whether or not of the same section
of this chapter), occurring not sooner than 180 days and not later than two
years after the occurrence of the third offense, shall be deemed a first-degree
misdemeanor. The court shall impose upon the offender a fine of not more than
$1,000 but not less than $750, or may impose a sentence of imprisonment for not
more than six months, or may impose such a fine and sentence of imprisonment.
   (E)   Pursuant to §
158.06(E), cost incurred for actions taken at the direction of the legal
officer to restrain, correct or abate a violation, or to prevent illegal
occupancy of a building, structure or premises, or to stop an illegal act,
conduct, business or utilization of the building, structure or premises shall
be recovered as follows:
      (1)   If the owner of the property, premise or structure fails to comply
with a notice or order within the time prescribed, the City Manager or his or
her designee may cause such violation(s) to be abated, either through an
available public agency or by contract or arrangement with private persons, and
the cost of such abatement shall be billed to the owner for the amount incurred
by the city in having such violation(s) abated, including an administrative fee
assessed at the current rate as set forth in
Chapter 37, General Fee Schedule, of the Codified Ordinances of the City of
West Carrollton. In the event the costs are not paid within 30 days after
mailing of the bill, then such amount shall be entered upon the tax duplicate
and shall constitute a lien upon such lands from the date of the entry, and
shall be collected as other taxes and returned to the city's general fund.
(Ord. 3673, passed 8-11-20)
CHAPTER 159: PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
Section
159.01   Comprehensive plan adopted
159.02   Bicycle Plan adopted
§ 159.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED.
   (A)   The West Carrollton Sustainable Comprehensive Plan: Destination
Tomorrow, adopted in May 2009 and amended in October 2018, is hereby adopted as
the official comprehensive general plan for the city.
   (B)   The West Carrollton Sustainable Comprehensive Plan: Destination
Tomorrow, adopted in May 2009 and amended in October 2018, does hereby replace
the Comprehensive Plan adopted by Ordinance 3418 on May 28, 2009.
(Ord. 3418. Passed 4-28-09; Ord. 3638. Passed 10-23-18.)
§159.02 BICYCLE PLAN ADOPTED.
   The West Carrollton Bicycle Friendly Community Action Plan, dated January
2009, is hereby adopted as the official bicycle plan for the City of West
Carrollton.
(Ord. 3426. Passed 8-25-09.)
CHAPTER 160: PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
160.01   General provisions
160.02   Definitions
160.03   Public nuisance by condition, activity and/or use
160.04   Prohibitions
160.05   Intent
160.06   Other regulations
160.07   Other remedies
160.08   Saving clause
160.09   Duties and responsibilities of the Division of Code Enforcement
160.10   Public nuisance determination
160.11   Procedure for securing an open structure
160.12   Junk motor vehicles and/or recreational vehicles
160.13   Notice to abate
160.14   Service of notice
160.15   Nuisance abatement of conditions found upon the premises by owner or
other responsible person requiring permits
160.16   Duty to vacate premises
160.17   Appeal hearing of public nuisance
160.18   Abatement of nuisance by the city
160.19   Abatement deadlines
160.20   Abatement by demolition
160.21   Adoption of procedures in R.C. §3929.86(C) and (D)
160.22   Illegal occupancy of a public nuisance; consent
160.23   Unauthorized entry in or upon a nuisance structure or premises; entry
authorization
160.24   Placarding
160.25   Transfer of ownership
160.26   Culpability
160.27   Reputation
§160.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall govern those items that are
deemed public nuisances.
   (B)   This chapter is intended to protect the health, safety, and welfare in
and on all premises, buildings and structures, residential or nonresidential,
located within the corporate boundaries of the City of West Carrollton by:
      (1)   Establishing the minimum requirements for securing, mitigating,
abating, and lessening the impact of buildings, structures, and premises
declared a public nuisance;
      (2)   Placing the responsibility for securing, mitigating, abating and
lessening the impact on owners, other responsible persons, other persons, and
occupants of buildings, structures, and premises declared a public nuisance;
and
      (3)   Providing for administration, enforcement, and penalties.
(Ord. 3674, passed 8-11-20)
§160.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively. Those items not herein
specifically defined shall be given their common ordinary meaning whenever it
is appropriate or reasonable to do so.
   ABATE. Shall mean, made to comply with all applicable housing, building,
zoning, fire and criminal codes by removing, terminating, ending, or correcting
the nuisance.
   ATTRACTIVE NUISANCE. Shall mean a dangerous condition on a property that may
attract children onto the premises and may involve risk or harm to their
safety.
   BLIGHT. Shall mean:
      (1)   A parcel of real estate, lot, or premises that has one or more of
the following conditions:
         (a)   A structure or building that is dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe,
or vermin infested and that because of its condition has been designated by the
Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee as unfit for human
habitation or use;
         (b)   The property poses a direct threat to the public health or
safety in its present condition by reason of environmentally hazardous
conditions, solid waste pollution, or contamination;
         (c)   Tax or special assessment delinquencies exceeding the fair
market value of the land.
      (2)   A parcel of real estate, lot, or premises that has two or more of
the following conditions that, collectively considered, adversely affect
surrounding or community property values or entail land use relationships that
cannot be reasonably corrected through the City of West Carrollton Zoning Code:
         (a)   Dilapidation and deterioration;
         (b)   Age and obsolescence;
         (c)   Inadequate provisions for ventilation, light, air, sanitation,
or open spaces;
         (d)   Unsafe and unsanitary conditions;
         (e)   Hazards that endanger lives or property by fire or other causes;
         (f)   Non-compliance with this code, Ohio Building Code, Residential
Code of Ohio, Ohio Fire Code, West Carrollton Zoning Code, Subdivision Code,
Flood Damage Prevention Code, or West Carrollton Property Maintenance Code;
         (g)   Nonworking or disconnected utilities;
         (h)   Vermin infestation;
         (i)   Is vacant or contains an abandoned structure or building;
         (j)   Extensive damage or destruction caused by a major disaster when
the damage has not been remediated within a reasonable time;
         (k)   Identified hazards to health and safety that are conducive to
ill health, transmission of disease, juvenile delinquency, or crime;
         (l)   Ownership or multiple ownership of a single parcel when the
owner, or a majority of the owners of a parcel in the case of multiple
ownership, cannot be located;
         (m)   One or more vehicles and/or recreational vehicles improperly
parked or in an inoperable condition stored out of doors in view from the
public right-of-way or that of a neighboring property;
         (n)   An accumulation of litter.
   JUNK MOTOR AND/OR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES. Means any motor or recreational
vehicle meeting all of the following requirements:
      (1)   A vehicle that has been left on private property for more than 48
hours or left on a public street, public way, or other property open to the
public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking upon or within the right-of-
way of any road or highway, for more than 48 hours;
      (2)   A vehicle that is three years or older;
      (3)   A vehicle that is extensively damaged, including but not limited
to, any combination of the following types of damage: deflated, wrecked, or
missing tires or rims; missing or wrecked body parts; broken or missing head
lights, tail lights, or brake lights; broken, cracked, or missing windows or
windshields; missing all or part of the motor or transmission; missing,
expired, or invalid license plate(s), or validation sticker(s); or a vehicle
that is otherwise apparently inoperable; and
      (4)   A vehicle that has a fair market value of $1,500 or less.
      (5)   Junk motor and/or recreational vehicle does not mean a vehicle
properly stored on the premises of an authorized automobile wrecking facility
or facility in conformance with applicable law. AUTOMOBILE WRECKING facility
shall have the same meaning as used in the City of West Carrollton Zoning Code.
   OWNER. Shall mean:
      (1)   Any owner of record of the premises or lesser estate therein,
mortgagee, vendee in possession, land contract purchaser, assignee of rents,
receiver, executor, administrator, trustee, or lessee as determined by an
examination of public records;
      (2)   Any owner of record of any building or structure on a premises,
including any mobile or manufactured home, or any lesser estate therein,
mortgagee, vendee in possession, land contract purchaser, assignee of rents,
receiver, executor, administrator, trustee, or lessee as determined by an
examination of public records of Montgomery County Ohio or the State of Ohio;
and
      (3)   Any other person, firm or corporation in control of a building,
structure or premises, or their duly authorized agents.
   OTHER RESPONSIBLE PERSON. Shall mean any person or persons, other than an
owner, who use, occupy, establish, or conduct a public nuisance.
(Ord. 3674, passed 8-11-20)
§ 160.03 PUBLIC NUISANCE BY CONDITION, ACTIVITY AND/OR USE.
   (A)   Public nuisance by condition. The following conditions, or defects in
or upon any premises, building, structure or lot shall be deemed a public
nuisance when they endanger the health, safety, welfare, life or limb of the
public, or cause any hurt, harm, inconvenience, blight, damage, or injury to
any person by reason of any one or more of the following conditions in which
such premises, building, structure or lot is permitted to be or remain:
      (1)   When a lot, lots, parcels of land, yard, fence, wall, deck, shed,
garage, carport, building, structure, habitable space, non-habitable space,
sign, tree pole, excavation, hole, pit, basement, cellar, well, cistern, septic
system, truck dock, sidewalk, driveway, private roadway, or any portion of the
aforesaid because of poor maintenance, accumulation of rubbish or garbage, or
improperly stored vehicles become a danger to the public, or a deteriorating
and blighting influence on nearby properties, or is a detriment to the general
health and safety of the community;
      (2)   When a structure or building is determined to be a fire hazard;
      (3)   When any structure or building or any part or parts thereof is
damaged by fire, wind, earthquake, flood, or by any other cause to such an
extent that the structural strength or stability thereof is materially less
than it was before such a catastrophe and no longer meets the minimum
structural load requirements of the Ohio Building Code or Residential Code of
Ohio for new buildings of similar structure, purpose, or location;
      (4)   When a structure or building is likely to cause sickness or disease
because of inadequate maintenance, light, air, or sanitary facilities;
      (5)   When a lot, lots, parcels of land, building, structure or any part
or parts thereof is determined unsafe, unsanitary or unfit for human occupancy
or use on, in, upon, about, or around the aforesaid lot, lots, parcels of land,
building, structure or any part or parts thereof;
      (6)   When any lot, lots, parcels of land, building, structure or any
part or parts thereof by reason of continued vacancy results in a lack of
reasonable or adequate maintenance thereby causing deterioration of property
and creating a blighting influence by depreciating the enjoyment and use of
properties in the immediate vicinity to such an extent that it is harmful to
the community;
      (7)   When a structure or building is dilapidated or deteriorated to such
an extent that it becomes an attractive nuisance to children, a harborage for
vagrants, or illegal activities, or because of its condition enables persons to
resort thereto for the purpose of committing unlawful or immoral acts;
      (8)   When any building or structure is in danger of collapse or partial
collapse due to faulty construction, or the removal, movement, or instability
of any portion of the structure or ground necessary for the purpose of
supporting such building or structure, or any cause;
      (9)   When any building or structure is in danger of any portion, member,
or appurtenance thereof, due to insufficient strength or stability, or is so
poorly anchored, attached, or fastened in place that it is incapable of
resisting applied loads of that specified in the Ohio Building Code or
Residential Code of Ohio for new buildings or structures of similar design and
is likely to fall, or to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse for any
reason and thereby injure person or persons or damage property;
      (10)   When any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the partial demolition or destruction of such building or structure and
is left incomplete or abandoned for a period in excess of 90 days so as to
constitute an attractive nuisance or hazard to the general public;
      (11)   When a building or structure remains vacant and/or abandoned for a
period in excess of 90 days and having one other or more conditions which
violate provisions of this Code;
      (12)   When a nuisance in or on lot, lots, parcels of land, building,
structure or any part or parts thereof have been abated by the city by securing
the open structure or building;
      (13)   When a structure meets that which is defined in R.C. §3767.41,
which are incorporated herein by reference and made part hereof;
      (14)   When an inoperable, junk, or unregistered vehicle or recreational
vehicle as defined herein is found, on any lot, lots, parcels of land, property
abandoned in the open without the needed protection, care, or maintenance;
      (15)   When any structure or building or any part or parts thereof from
which the plumbing, heating, electrical and/or other facilities have been
removed, or from which the utilities have been disconnected, destroyed, or
rendered ineffective;
      (16)   That which is defined or classified as a public nuisance by any
codified ordinance of the City of West Carrollton or the State of Ohio;
      (17)   When any pond, pool of water, or vessel holds stagnant water;
      (18)   When any lot, lots, parcels of land, building, structure or any
part or parts thereof is determined unsanitary, or is littered with new or used
tires, rubbish or garbage.
   (B)   Public nuisance by activity or use. The following activities or uses
in or upon any premises, building, structure or lot shall be deemed a public
nuisance when they endanger the health, safety, welfare, life or limb of the
public, or cause any hurt, harm, inconvenience, blight, damage, or injury to
any person by reason of any one or more of the following conditions in which
such premises, building, structure or lot is permitted to be or remain:
      (1)   That which is defined as a nuisance in R.C. §3767.01(C) which is
incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof;
      (2)   Premises or real estate, including vacant land, on which a felony
violation of R.C. Chapter 2925 or 3719 occurs.
      (3)   Any use of premises or real estate not in conformance with the City
of West Carrollton Zoning Code.
(Ord. 3674, passed 8-11-20)
§160.04 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No owner, other responsible person, or other person shall permit the
existence of a public nuisance to occur or continue on such premises.
   (B)   No owner, other responsible person, or other person shall fail to
comply with any notice to abate a public nuisance.
   (C)   No owner, other responsible person, or other person shall obstruct or
interfere with the enforcement of such notice.
(Ord. 3674, passed 8-11-20)
§160.05 INTENT.
   This chapter shall be construed liberally and justly to insure the public
health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 3674, passed 8-11-20)
§160.06 OTHER REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to prevent the
enforcement of other ordinances or regulations which prescribe standards other
than are provided herein.
(Ord. 3674, passed 8-11-20)
§160.07 OTHER REMEDIES.
   This chapter shall not be deemed to abolish or impair existing remedies of
the city or its officers or agencies relating to the occupation, removal or
demolition of any building or structure deemed dangerous, unsafe, or
unsanitary.
(Ord. 3674, passed 8-11-20)
§160.08 SAVING CLAUSE.
   If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this
chapter shall be declared invalid for any reason, such decision shall not
affect the remaining portions of this chapter which shall continue in full
force and effect, and, the provisions of this chapter are declared severable.
(Ord. 3674, passed 8-11-20)
§160.09 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE DIVISION OF CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   As directed by the City Manager and Director of Planning and Community
Development, the Division of Code Enforcement within the Planning and Community
Development Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 3674, passed 8-11-20)
§160.10 PUBLIC NUISANCE DETERMINATION.
   (A)   Whenever there is a reasonable basis to believe that a public nuisance
as defined in §160.03 exists, the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her
designee, shall inspect or cause the inspection of premises upon which the
public nuisance is believed to exist. The Fire Chief, Police Chief, Chief
Building Official, or their designee upon the request of the Chief Code
Enforcement Officer may inspect or cause the inspection of premises on which a
public nuisance is believed to exist. All determinations and recommendations
with respect to the existence of a public nuisance shall be documented
photographically and in writing and such documentation shall be filed with the
Chief Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Whenever the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee
determines the existence of a public nuisance as defined in §
160.03 he or she shall have the option to:
      (1)   Serve a written notice/order on the owner and/or other responsible
person, pursuant to §
160.14(B) or if applicable, §
160.14(C), stating the determinations with respect to the existence of a public
nuisance and stating that unless the owner and/or other responsible person
abates the public nuisance, the city may, (a) in accordance with §
160.18, abate the public nuisance at the expense of the owner and/or other
responsible person; or (b) seek abatement in the manner provided for in R.C.
Chapter 3767.
   (C)   The city may at its option, elect not to utilize the procedure
provided in this chapter, and proceed instead with filing of an action in a
court of competent jurisdiction in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3767.
(Ord. 3674, passed 8-11-20)
§160.11 PROCEDURE FOR SECURING AN OPEN STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Upon finding a vacant structure open to entry at doors, windows, or
other points accessible to the general public, or upon finding an imminent open
hazard which poses a threat to the public safety, the Chief Code Enforcement
Officer, or his or her designee may cause the structure and/or hazard
immediately secured. The Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her
designee, shall enter the premises to secure the structure and/or hazard in
order to lessen the severity of the public nuisance. In securing such structure
and/or hazard, the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee, may
call upon any department, or division of the city for whatever assistance may
be necessary, or may, by private contract, secure such structure and/or hazard.
Photographs of such structure and/or hazard shall be taken prior to securing it
and thereafter. Said photographs shall be filed with the Chief Code Enforcement
Officer.
   (B)   Either before or as soon as practicable after the securing of such
structure and/or hazard, the Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee,
shall cause written notice to be served upon the owner and/or other responsible
person in the manner provided in §
160.14(B) or, if applicable §
160.14(C) and shall include:
      (1)   The name of the owner and/or other responsible person, the address
of the premises, and the date the notice was issued;
      (2)   The date on which the structure and/or hazard was found and
secured;
      (3)   The cost incurred in securing said structure and/or hazard and that
the city will recover said cost in the manner provided in §
160.18; and
      (4)   A statement that the owner or other responsible person has a right
to appeal said notice and determinations pursuant to §
160.17 of the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee to the
Board of Zoning Appeals by making written demand to the Chief Code Enforcement
Officer, or his or her designee within ten days after receipt of service of the
notice.
(Ord. 3674, passed 8-11-20)
§160.12 JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES AND/OR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Junk motor and/or recreational vehicle; public nuisance.
      (1)   The location or presence of any junk motor and/or recreational
vehicle on any public or private land or property, or public or private street,
alley, or way within the city is hereby deemed a public nuisance and shall be
abated as provided for in this section or any other ordinance or law of the
city or as provided under any relevant portion of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (2)   No person shall permit any junk motor and/or recreational vehicle
to remain in the open on any public or private land or property, or public or
private street, alley, or way within the city after receipt of a notice to
remove such vehicle.
   (B)   Notice.
      (1)   The Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee, and
sworn members of the West Carrollton Police Department are hereby authorized to
issue written notice and order junk motor and/or recreational vehicles removed.
      (2)   Such notice shall be provided in accordance with the requirements
of §
160.13 and served pursuant to §
160.14. The notice shall further describe the vehicle to be removed with
reasonable specificity, and (a) state that it constitutes a junk motor and/or
recreational vehicle and a public nuisance, and (b) state that the owner has
ten calendar days in which to either remove the vehicle or give written notice
of a request for a hearing appealing the order as prescribed under Section
160.17.
   (C)   Conclusive presumption of junk motor and/or recreational vehicle as a
public nuisance. If any recipient of a notice to remove a junk motor and/or
recreational vehicle fails to abate the nuisance or fails to appeal the notice
in writing to the Board of Zoning Appeals within ten calendar days after
service of the notice, it shall be conclusively presumed to establish the junk
motor and/or recreational vehicle has been abandoned and as a public nuisance
and such vehicle may be removed immediately by the West Carrollton Police
Department or their designee.
   (D)   Removal and disposal of junk motor and/or recreational vehicles.
      (1)   The West Carrollton Police Department or their designee shall order
the junk motor and/or recreational vehicle towed or otherwise removed from the
property or place where found, if such owner fails or refuses to remove the
junk motor and/or recreational vehicle within the applicable time period after
service of notice. Thereafter such junk motor and/or recreational vehicle shall
be treated as abandoned and shall be deemed forfeited, to be disposed of in
accordance with this section or any relevant portion of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (2)   Prior to being removed, the abandoned junk motor and/or
recreational vehicle shall be photographed by the Chief Code Enforcement
Officer, or his or her designee or the Police Chief, or their designee. Such
person shall record the make and model of the vehicle; the vehicle
identification number when available, and shall detail the damage or missing
parts or equipment to substantiate the value of $1,500 or less.
      (3)   The Police Department shall thereupon tow, remove, or cause to be
removed such abandoned junk motor and/or recreational vehicle and shall
immediately dispose of it to a vehicle salvage dealer, as defined in R.C.
§4738.01, or a scrap metal processing facility, as defined in R.C. §4737.05, or
to any other facility under contract with the city for disposal of such
vehicles. The records and photographs relating to the abandoned junk motor and/
or recreational vehicle(s) shall be retained by the City Police Department for
a period of at least two years. The junkyard, scrap metal processing facility,
or towing service in possession of such vehicle shall execute in quadruplicate
an affidavit, as prescribed by the registrar of motor vehicles, describing the
subject vehicle and the manner in which it was disposed of, indicating that all
requirements of this section have been complied with, and filing the same with
the Clerk of Courts of Montgomery County, Ohio. The clerk shall retain the
original of the affidavit for the files, furnish one copy thereof to the
registrar, one copy to the junkyard or other facility handling the disposal of
the vehicle, and one to the City of West Carrollton Police Department, who
shall file such copy with the records and photograph(s) relating to the
vehicle.
      (4)   Any monies arising from the disposal of a junk motor and/or
recreational vehicle in excess of the expenses resulting from the removal of
the vehicle shall be credited to the general fund of the city. The city assumes
no liability for towing costs not recovered by the sale of such vehicle.
   (E)   Collector's vehicles. No person shall be prevented from storing or
keeping, or restricted in the method of storing or keeping any collector's
vehicle on private property with the permission of the person having the right
to the possession of the property, except that a person having such permission
shall be required to conceal such vehicle, by means of an enclosed building,
garage, or other such suitable enclosure, any unlicensed collector's vehicle
and providing such vehicle is stored in conformance with the rules and
regulations of the City of West Carrollton Property Maintenance Code and the
City of West Carrollton Zoning Code.
(Ord. 3674, passed 8-11-20)
§160.13 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   (A)   Any notice issued pursuant to §§
160.10,
160.11,
160.12 or
160.20 shall include:
      (1)   The name of the owner and/or other responsible person, the address
of the premises, and the date the notice/order was issued;
      (2)   A statement of the determination with respect to the existence of a
public nuisance;
      (3)   A statement requiring the owner and/or other responsible person to
abate the public nuisance within the time period prescribed in §
160.19;
      (4)   A statement advising of the right of the city to abate a public
nuisance by either, (a) in accordance with §
160.18 herein, or (b) in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3767. The Chief Code
Enforcement Officer may with the approval of the Director of Planning and
Community Development recommend to the City Manager and the Law Director that
abatement of the public nuisance be commenced in the manner provided in R.C.
Chapter 3767 after the time to file the appeal has expired;
      (5)   A statement that the owner and/or other responsible person has the
right to appeal said notice and determination of the Chief Code Enforcement
Officer, or his or her designee, to the Board of Zoning Appeals within ten
business days and in accordance with §
160.17, after receipt of service of notice.
(Ord. 3674, passed 8-11-20)
§160.14 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   Any notices required to be served under §§
160.10,
160.11,
160.12 or
160.20 shall be served in accordance with §
160.14(B).
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified herein, written notices pursuant to this
chapter shall be served on the owner and/or other responsible person:
      (1)   Personally;
      (2)   By leaving notice with a person of suitable age and discretion at
the usual place of residence of the person served;
      (3)   By certified mail, or commercial carrier service utilizing any form
of delivery requiring a signed receipt, addressed to the owner or other
responsible person(s) at the last known address as appearing in the records or
databases of the City of West Carrollton, Ohio;
      (4)   By certified mail, or commercial carrier service utilizing any form
of delivery requiring a signed receipt, addressed to the owner at the owner's
tax mailing address as indicated on the county tax duplicate;
      (5)   By certified mail, or commercial carrier service utilizing any form
of delivery requiring a signed receipt, addressed to the owner or other
responsible person(s) at his or her address as determined by an examination of
public records of Montgomery County, Ohio or the State of Ohio; or
      (6)   By posting a copy of the notice in a conspicuous place on the
structure/building or premises to which it relates.
   (C)   If notices mailed are returned unserved, then a notice shall be
published once a week for two consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general
circulation.
   (D)   The Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee, shall
complete a certificate-of-service which shall set forth the name and address of
the person served, the manner of service, and the date thereof.
(Ord. 3674, passed 8-11-20)
§160.15 NUISANCE ABATEMENT OF CONDITIONS FOUND UPON THE PREMISES BY OWNER OR
OTHER RESPONSIBLE PERSON REQUIRING PERMITS.
   Should the abatement of a public nuisance require the issuance of a building
or demolition permit, said permit(s) shall be applied for by the owner and/or
other responsible person within ten business days of receipt of service of
notice, or within ten business days of the decision of the Board of Zoning
Appeals affirming the determination if so appealed. The Chief Code Enforcement
Officer or his or her designee or Board of Zoning Appeals may upon the showing
of due cause by the owner and/or other responsible person, extend the time
allowed to secure the required permit(s), said extension shall be in accordance
with §
160.19(B). Failure of the owner or other responsible person to secure a permit
within the required time frame may result in the city abating the nuisance
pursuant to §
160.18.
(Ord. 3674, passed 8-11-20)
§160.16 DUTY TO VACATE PREMISES.
   (A)   Within 15 calendar days after it has been finally determined that a
public nuisance exists as defined in §
160.03(B):
      (1)   All persons responsible therefor shall vacate the premises;
      (2)   The owner shall initiate such legal action as is necessary to
vacate all persons responsible therefor from the premises, and shall diligently
prosecute such legal action to a conclusion.
   (B)   After the last person responsible for the public nuisance has vacated
the premises, the owner shall keep such premises vacant for a period of up to
365 calendar days, unless, the owner and every person responsible for the
public nuisance who wishes to occupy the premises, each file a bond naming the
City of West Carrollton, Ohio as oblige, with sureties to be approved by the
Chief Code Enforcement Officer. The bond shall be in the amount of the value of
the property, as determined by the Chief Code Enforcement Officer. The Chief
Code Enforcement Officer may make such determination on the basis of the total
market value of the land and improvements, as shown on the Montgomery County
auditor's current valuation record, or on the basis of any other reliable
evidence. The bond shall be conditioned that such owner and other responsible
persons responsible for the nuisance will immediately abate such public
nuisance and prevent the same from being established or kept during the 365 day
period. The bond shall be posted for a full 365 days.
(Ord. 3674, passed 8-11-20)
§160.17 APPEAL HEARING OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   The owner or other responsible person named on a notice may within ten
business days after receipt of notice, make demand in writing to the Chief Code
Enforcement Officer for a hearing on any legal or factual issues related to the
nuisance notice, or any question set forth in §160.17(B)(2)(d), or any
determination made by the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her
designee pursuant to the authority granted by this chapter. The demand shall
include the correct mailing address of the owner, other responsible person, or
person representing the owner or other responsible person and shall be
accompanied by the appeal fee set forth in §37.29(A)(10) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of West Carrollton. The hearing shall be scheduled
within a reasonable time, not to exceed 60 days following the receipt of the
written demand.
   (B)   The hearing shall be conducted by the Board of Zoning Appeals (Board).
      (1)   In an appeal concerning public nuisances defined in §
160.03(A), the Board may vote to:
         (a)   Sustain the determination that a public nuisance exists on the
premises and order the abatement thereof by repair, replacement or removal of
the items found to constitute a public nuisance, or order the abatement thereof
by demolition;
         (b)   Sustain the determination that a public nuisance exists on the
premises and order that the structure be secured and the premises maintained so
as to lessen the severity of the public nuisance;
         (c)   Continue the matter for a period not to exceed 45 days for
further investigation and disposition;
         (d)   Take such other action and render such other orders as it deems
appropriate within the authority conferred by this chapter; or
         (e)   Reverse the finding that a public nuisance exists on the
premises and dismiss the case.
      (2)   In an appeal concerning public nuisances defined in §
160.03(B), the Board may vote to:
         (a)   Sustain the finding that a public nuisance exists on the
premises and order the abatement thereof;
         (b)   Take such other action and render such other orders as it deems
appropriate within the authority conferred by this chapter;
         (c)   Reverse the finding that a public nuisance exists on the
premises and dismiss the case; or
         (d)   Determine that the owner of the real property or personal
property used in furtherance of the public nuisance was, in good faith,
innocent of knowledge of the use of such property as a nuisance and that, with
reasonable care and diligence, such owner could not have knowledge thereof, and
dismiss the case with respect to that owner.
   (C)   A copy of the decision of the Board shall be mailed, via certificate
of mailing, to the last known address of the owner, other responsible person or
person representing the owner or other responsible person, who demanded the
hearing. It shall be the responsibility of the owner, other responsible person
or person representing the owner or other responsible person, to keep the
secretary of the Board appraised of their current mailing address. For purposes
of appeal pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2506, the final order shall be deemed to
have been entered on the date on which the copy of the decision was mailed.
(Ord. 3674, passed 8-11-20)
§160.18 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY THE CITY.
   (A)   Should a public nuisance not be abated at the expiration of the time
stated in the notice, Board decision, or expiration of the time stated in the
compliance agreement, or any extension granted by the Chief Code Enforcement
Officer, or his or her designee, or such additional time as the Board of Zoning
Appeals may grant, the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee,
with the approval of the Director of Planning and Community Development and
City Manager, shall have the authority at any time thereafter to enter on the
premises and abate the nuisance by demolition, removal, or such other action
appropriate to abate or lessen the severity of the nuisance. Should the owner
or other responsible person fail to permit such entity, the Chief Code
Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee shall petition a court of competent
jurisdiction for a warrant as provided for in R.C. §2933.21. In abating such
nuisance, the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee, with the
approval of the Director of Planning and Community Development and City
Manager, may call upon any department, or division of the city for whatever
assistance necessary to abate such nuisance. The Chief Code Enforcement
Officer, or his or her designee, with the approval of the Director of Planning
and Community Development and City Manager, may also privately contract for the
services to take such action as may be deemed appropriate to abate or lessen
the severity of the public nuisance. The cost of the contract will be paid for
from the city funds specifically authorized by the City Manager to be used for
that purpose. Should the nuisance structure or premises catch fire between the
time it is declared a public nuisance and is fully abated, the cost of abating
or lessening the severity of the public nuisance shall include the reasonable
city expenses incurred by the Fire Department. The city shall recover the cost
of abating or lessening the severity of such public nuisance in the manner
provided for in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   The city shall recover the cost of abating or lessening the severity
of such public nuisance, or other action taken by the city pursuant to §
160.21, in the following manner:
      (1)   The city shall invoice the owner and/or other responsible person(s)
directly by certified mail, or any other method of providing notice authorized
under §
160.14, for the cost incurred for abating or lessening the severity of such
public nuisance to include an administration fee assessed at the current rate
as set forth in
Chapter 37, General Fees Schedule of the Codified Ordinances of the City of
West Carrollton. The owner and/or other responsible person(s) shall pay the
invoice with 30 days after receipt of same.
      (2)   If the invoice is not paid within 30 days, the city may collect the
cost by any of the following methods:
         (a)   The city may levy an assessment and recover in accordance with
R.C. §715.261 the cost of abating or lessening the severity of such public
nuisance; or
         (b)   The city may bring a civil action to recover the cost from the
owner or other responsible person(s) as provided for in R.C. §715.261.
(Ord. 3674, passed 8-11-20)
§160.19 ABATEMENT DEADLINES.
   (A)   Any owner and/or other responsible person served with a notice to
abate a public nuisance shall abate said nuisance immediately or within such
time frame as the Chief Code Enforcement Officer may deem necessary.
   (B)   If a written request for an extension of the compliance deadline is
received at least 24 hours prior to the compliance deadline, the Chief Code
Enforcement Officer, at their discretion, may grant up to a 30 day extension to
the time originally permitted to complete the abatement. An extension of time
beyond 30 days for good cause shall require a compliance agreement with the
owner. Said agreement will include a list of all required work and a time frame
for completion of each item and shall not exceed a 90 day time period.
(Ord. 3674, passed 8-11-20)
§160.20 ABATEMENT BY DEMOLITION.
   (A)   Upon the failure of the owner or other responsible person to abate the
nuisance within the time period outlined in the notice to abate, or such other
time period as may be granted by the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, and a
review and concurrence by the Chief Code Enforcement Officer and the Director
of Planning and Community Development, the Chief Code Enforcement Officer shall
issue a notice of demolition to the owner or other responsible person. Said
notice shall advise the owner that the notice of demolition is a final order,
and failure to abate the nuisance within 30 days of service of the notice of
demolition, the city shall be authorized, at any time thereafter, to enter on
the premises and abate the nuisance by demolition. Should the owner fail to
permit such entity, the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee
shall petition a court of competent jurisdiction for a warrant as provided for
in R.C. §2933.21. In abating such nuisance, the Chief Code Enforcement Officer,
or his or her designee, with the approval of the Director of Planning and
Community Development and City Manager, may call upon any department, or
division of the city for whatever assistance necessary to abate such nuisance.
The Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee, with the approval
of the Director of Planning and Community Development and City Manager, may
also privately contract for the services to take such action as may be deemed
appropriate to abate or lessen the severity of the public nuisance. The cost of
the contract will be paid for from the city funds specifically authorized by
the City Manager to be used for that purpose. Should the nuisance structure or
premises catch fire between the time it is declared a public nuisance and is
fully abated, the cost of abating or lessening the severity of the public
nuisance shall include the reasonable city expenses incurred by the Fire
Department. The city shall recover the cost of abating or lessening the
severity of such public nuisance in the manner provided for in division (B) of
this section.
   (B)   The city shall recover the cost of abating or lessening the severity
of such public nuisance, or other action taken by the city pursuant to §
160.21, in the following manner:
      (1)   The city shall invoice the owner and/or other responsible person(s)
directly by certified mail, or any other method of providing notice authorized
under §
160.14, for the cost of abating or lessening the severity of such public
nuisance to include an administration fee assessed at the current rate as set
forth in §
37.40, General Fees Schedule of the Codified Ordinances of the City of West
Carrollton. The owner and/or other responsible person shall pay the invoice
with 30 days after receipt of same.
      (2)   If the invoice is not paid within 30 days, the city may collect the
cost by any of the following methods:
         (a)   The city may levy an assessment and recover in accordance with
R.C. §715.261 the cost of abating or lessening the severity of such public
nuisance; or
         (b)   The city may bring a civil action to recover the cost from the
owner or other responsible person(s) as provided for in R.C. §715.261.
   (C)   When any nuisance structure/building has been ordered demolished and
removed, the city may sell the salvaged and valuable materials from the
nuisance structure/building or retain for city use. The net proceeds of such
sale, after deducting the expenses of such demolition and removal, shall be
promptly remitted with a report of such sale or transaction, including the
items of expense and the amounts deducted, for the person who is entitled
thereto, subject to any order of a court. If such a surplus does not remain to
be turned over, the report shall so state.
   (D)   All demolition activity shall be performed pursuant to §
158.11 of the City of West Carrollton Property Maintenance Code.
(Ord. 3674, passed 8-11-20)
§160.21 ADOPTION OF PROCEDURES IN R.C. §3929.86(C) AND (D).
   This section incorporates, adopts by reference, and makes part of this
chapter with the same force and effect as though set out in full herein, the
procedures contained in R.C. §3929.86(C) and (D) relating to recovery of costs
incurred by the city in repairing, removing, or securing fire damaged buildings
or other structures.
(Ord. 3674, passed 8-11-20)
§160.22 ILLEGAL OCCUPANCY OF A PUBLIC NUISANCE; CONSENT.
   (A)   No owner or other responsible person shall occupy, let, permit to be
occupied, or let by another for occupancy any structure or premises declared by
the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee to be a public
nuisance without first applying for and obtaining the written consent of the
Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee. The Chief Code
Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee, shall consent when:
      (1)   All violations of all housing, building and other health and safety
codes of the City of West Carrollton and the State of Ohio have been corrected,
and
      (2)   When any injunctions obtained against use or occupancy have been
dissolved, and
      (3)   When all parties have complied with all applicable requirements of
§160.16 herein.
(Ord. 3674, passed 8-11-20)
§160.23 UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY IN OR UPON A NUISANCE STRUCTURE OR PREMISES; ENTRY
AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   No owner or other responsible person shall enter or be present in or
on any structure/building or premises that has been posted with a notice/
placard identifying the said structure/building or premises to be a public
nuisance, without first obtaining authorization in writing from the Chief Code
Enforcement Officer and having such written authorization on his or her person
at the time.
   (B)   It shall be an affirmative defense to a violation of this section that
the person was the owner, or was authorized by the owner to be present on said
premises or in said structure/building, and that one of the persons present had
the required written authorization on his or her person at the time.
   (C)   The officers, agents, and employees of the city, state, or federal
government, or any political subdivision or of any public utility shall be
exempt from the requirements of the section while in the course of their
employment.
   (D)   Written authorization, as provided in this section, shall be issued by
the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee to any person who
provides documentation, on its face, that such a person is either an owner of
the premises and/or structure/building, or is authorized by the owner to be
present, or to any person who applies and pays for the permit to do the work on
the premises and/or structure/building.
   (E)   Written authorization, as provided in this section, shall not be
issued in connection with any properly which has been declared a public
nuisance as provided in this chapter, unless all parties have complied with all
applicable requirements of §
160.16.
   (F)   The issuance of an authorization provided for herein shall not be
construed to create a privilege, as that term is used in R.C. §2911.21, nor
shall this section be deemed to have any effect whatsoever on the
interpretations or application of R.C. §2911.21.
(Ord. 3674, passed 8-11-20)
§160.24 PLACARDING.
   (A)   Any premises, or structure/building determined to be a public nuisance
shall be posted with a placard bearing the words "Public Nuisance - Keep Out".
Said placard shall also bare a statement of the penalties for occupying said
premises or structure/building without the approval of the Chief Code
Enforcement Officer or court having jurisdiction.
   (B)   Placard removal. Only the Chief Code Enforcement Officer, or his or
her designee are authorized to remove a placard. Placard removal shall only
take place once abatement has been completed.
(Ord. 3674, passed 8-11-20)
§160.25 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any premises, building, structure and/
or hazard who has received a written notice declaring such premises, building,
structure and/or hazard a public nuisance, to sell, transfer, lease or
otherwise dispose of such premises, building and/or structure to another until
the premises, building, structure and/or hazard have been rehabilitated or
demolished, and until any injunctions obtained against use or occupancy have
been dissolved, or until the owner has first furnished the grantee, transferee,
or lessee a true copy of the said notice, and has furnished to the Chief Code
Enforcement Officer a signed and notarized statement from the grantee,
transferee, or lessee, acknowledging the receipt of such notice and accepting
the responsibility for abating the nuisance by rehabilitation, demolition, or
otherwise in conformity with the terms of such notice, or extension thereof
granted by Chief Code Enforcement, Appeals Board, or court.
(Ord. 3674, passed 8-11-20)
§160.26 CULPABILITY.
   A violation of §§
160.03,
160.16,
160.20, and
160.25 shall be construed to be a strict liability offense.
(Ord. 3674, passed 8-11-20)
§160.27 REPUTATION.
   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a property is a public
nuisance as defined in §
160.03, evidence as to the reputation of such place shall be admissible on the
question of whether the properly is or is not a public nuisance, and every
owner and other responsible person responsible for the premises shall be
presumed to have knowledge of the reputation of the place.
(Ord. 3674, passed 8-11-20)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   FRANCHISES
         
II.   EASEMENTS
         
III.   VACATING OF STREETS AND ALLEYS
         
IV.   DEDICATION AND PLAT APPROVAL
         
V.   ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF REAL PROPERTY
         
VI.   LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY
         
VII.   STREET GRADE LEVELS; STREET AND OTHER NAME CHANGES
         
VIII.   ANNEXATION AND DETACHMENT OF TERRITORY
         
IX.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
         
X.   HISTORICAL DISTRICTS
         
XI.   COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AREAS
         
XII.   CONTRACTS; AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
29   3-27-  Dayton Traction Co. - Right to construct, maintain and operate a street
     1893   railroad.
34   6-6-   Ohio Telephone & Telegraph Co. - To erect, operate and maintain poles and
     1893   fixtures.
69   9-16-  Repeals Ord. 29 re Dayton Traction Co. franchise.
     1895
72   3-26-  Dayton Traction Co. - To construct, maintain and operate an electric railroad.
     1896
84   4-29-  Central Union Telephone Co. - To erect and maintain poles and lines.
     01
165  9-22-  Dayton Lighting Co. - To erect poles, fixtures and lines to transmit
     10     electricity.
177  5-7-12 Ohio Fuel Supply Co. - To lay pipes, mains and other appliances for conveying
            gas.
215  11-18- Cincinnati, Dayton & Toledo Traction Co. and the Ohio Electric Railway Co. - To
     13     construct a spur track from Central Ave.
440  6-6-28 Cincinnati, Hamilton & Dayton Railway Co. - Amends franchise in Ord. 215.
588  6-4-40 Dayton Power & Light Co. - 5-year electricity franchise.
591  6-18-  Ohio Bell Telephone Co. - Right to construct, operate and maintain telephone
     40     lines and service.
665  7-10-  Dayton Power & Light Co. - 25-year electric franchise.
     45
687  8-12-  Ohio Bell Telephone Co. - To install and maintain underground conduit in Locust
     47     St. and an alley north of Central Ave.
     3-11-  Ohio Bell Telephone Co. - To construct, operate and maintain underground
918  58     conduits, cables and appurtenances for telephone lines and service in Zapp Rd.
            and U.S. 25.
     3-25-  Ohio Bell Telephone Co. - To construct, operate and maintain underground
921  58     conduits, cables and appurtenances for telephone lines and service in Central
            Ave., Locust St., Elm St. and Lowery Ave.
1666 8-11-  Dayton Power & Light Co. - 25-year electric franchise.
     70
1907 5-27-  Cable Television Franchise.
     75
21-  12-27- Dayton Power & Light Co.
77   77
2059 2-14-  Dayton Power & Light Co.
     78
2564 12-23- Dayton Power & Light Co. - Fixing prices for lighting the streets, roads, and
     86     public places within the city for the period January 1 -December 31, 1987.
2574 1-13-  Repealing Ch. 114 of the city code and enacting a new Ch. 114 granting a non-
     87     exclusive cable television franchise.
Res. 6-22-  Approves request from Mediaone to transfer its Cable TV franchise to Time
15-  99     Warner Entertainment Co., L.P.
99
            Terminates electric franchise granted to Dayton Power and Light Co. (Ord.
3164 8-8-00 3053); grants new franchise to same co. for 3 yrs. (with automatic renewal of
            3-yr. periods).
            Terminates natural gas franchise granted to Ohio Fuel Supply Co. on 5-7-12;
3165 8-8-00 grants new natural gas franchise to Dayton Power and Light Co. for 3 yrs. (with
            automatic renewal of 3-yr. periods).
Res. 3-23-  Authorizes a contract with Sandy’s Towing for the tow franchise agreement for
12-  10     the West Carrollton Police Department.
2010
 
 
TABLE II: EASEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
300  2-4-19 Miami Conservancy District - Perpetual use of Bridge St. for construction
            of an earth levee.
351  4-5-23 Miami Tablet Co. - To install and maintain a railway track across Elm St.
466  7-26-  Village sanitary sewer right-of-way over lands of Cleveland, Cincinnati,
     29     Chicago and St. Louis Railway Co.
477  12-19- Village to construct Elm St. storm sewer under tracks of Cleveland,
     29     Cincinnati, Chicago and St. Louis Railway Co.
552  1-19-  Village right-of-way to pumping station over lands of Linger Bros.
     37
720  8-9-49 Authorizes sale of sanitary sewer easement to Empire Homes Inc.
817  7-13-  Moraine Paper Co. Division of West Carrollton - To establish waste pipe
     54     line from company land to the Miami River.
852  7-26-  Ohio Bell Telephone Co. - To construct, operate and maintain an underground
     55     telephone and telegraph system.
1116 1-9-62 Village to install sanitary sewer under right-of-way of NYC R.R. Co. and
            Cleveland, Cincinnati, Chicago and St. Louis Railway Co.
1122 3-27-  Village to erect earthen embankment and 36 inch storm tile on premises of
     62     Bond, Leiwig and Good.
1433 7-11-  Cleveland, Cincinnati, Chicago and St. Louis Railway Co. - For ingress and
     67     egress easement.
1473 12-12- Woody's Market, Inc. and Woody's Properties, Inc. - To construct and
     67     maintain a building over East Dixie Dr. between lots 1439 and 1430.
            City to vacate the public utility easement on the boundary between lots
2439 5-8-84 4192 and 4188, and the public utility easement on the boundary between lots
            4188 and 4186 within Elmwood Park, Section 2.
Res.        Authorizes City Manager to sign an easement agreement with the State of
16-  4-28-  Ohio for the installation of a 24-inch gravity flow sanitary sewer line
87   87     along West Central Avenue between Weir Street and the wastewater treatment
            plant.
2813 7-23-  Appropriating an easement in property for the purpose of constructing a
     91     sanitary sewer in the city.
2814 7-23-  Appropriating an easement in certain property for the purpose of
     91     constructing a water line in the city.
Res. 6-25-  Declaring intent of the city to appropriate an easement for construction of
26-  91     a sanitary sewer by the city.
91
Res. 6-25-  Declaring intent of the city to appropriate an easement for construction of
27-  91     a water line in the city.
91
2891 2-1-93 City to vacate a utility easement located at 524 Maplehill Drive along the
            common lot line between lots 1306 and 1307.
     11-23- Authorizes grant of access easement by City to El Meson Restaurante for
3281 04     ingress/egress to parking lot on El Meson’s property; allows closing curb
            cuts on Central Ave and E. Dixie Dr.
     3-13-  Extinguishing rights to an easement for ingress and egress located at 801
3507 12     E. Central Avenue, City Lot Number 4515, which provides access from Alex-
            Bell Road to 833 E. Central Avenue, City Lot Number 3833.
     3-27-  Entering into a cross-access easement agreement with 801 E. Central Avenue
3508 12     LLC for ingress and egress between property located at 833 E. Central
            Avenue and property located at 801 E. Central Avenue.
 
 
TABLE III: VACATING OF STREETS AND ALLEYS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
91        6-30-02     Part of Bridge St.
92        6-30-02     Part of Friend St.
93        6-30-02     Part of Smith St.
94        6-30-02     Part of Walnut St.
95        6-30-02     Part of Mill St.
148       9-15-08     Alley 16.5 feet wide running along south side of Lots 71
                      through 85, extending from Smith to Elm Sts.
423       10-3-27     An unnamed street beginning at a stake near Pease Mill
                      (Oxford Miami Paper Co. property).
461       6-4-29      Part of an unnamed street adjacent to and NW of Lots 98
                      through 102 of Binkley's Addition.
469       9-17-29     Portion of first alley north from Howe Ave. extending
                      west from Locust St. to Howe Ave.
                      First alley east of Alexandersville-Bellbrook Rd. and
827       11-9-54     East Dixie Dr. between Lots 1 and 2 of Apple -Gross-Fox
                      Plat and to the rear of Lots 2 and 3 to a point 16 feet
                      west of Lot 3.
                      First 12 feet alley north from Alexandersville-Bellbrook
                      Rd. running SE from S. Dixie Dr. for 89.5 feet between
                      Lots 1421 and 1422; 12 feet alley running NE 203.3 feet
1036      6-28-60     from the SE end of the first alley and adjacent to rear
                      lot lines of Lots 1421 through 1427; 10 feet alley
                      running NW 182.5 feet from the NE end of the second alley
                      to S. Dixie Dr., and adjacent to NE side of Lot 1427.
1042      7-12-60     Landview Ave. from Gibbons Rd. to Savoy Ave.
1095      10-24-61    8 feet alley east of Lots 467, 468, 476, 477 and 564
                      through 568.
1152      12-11-62    Alley from Zapp Ave. west to Stadium Ave. along Lots 1405
                      and 1407 through 1411.
                      Alley commencing at intersection of easterly line of Elm
1564      11-2-68     St., thence along southerly right-of-way line of the
                      Penn-Central Railroad to the easterly line of Lot 477.
1587      2-11-69     Third St. beginning at north side of E. Dixie Dr. and
                      running north 61.57 feet.
                      A portion of Orchard Hill Dr., from the eastern right-of-
1693      4-27-71     way line of Ridgecrest Dr. for a distance of
                      approximately 230 feet measured to the westerly right-of-
                      way line of King Richard Pk.
                      A portion of Moraine Blvd. from the northwest right-of-
1687      5-25-71     way line of Sheffield Rd. to the southeast property line
                      of the Penn-Central Railroad.
1799      7-24-73     A portion of the right-of-way of old Alex Rd. abutting
                      Lot No. 1460 and Lot. No. 1434 in the city.
1810      10-9-73     A portion of Progress Rd.
1938      12-9-75     A portion of Orchard Hill Dr. immediately north of Wilson
                      Park approximately 41 feet.
1960      3-23-76     A portion of Alex-Bell Rd.
1964      3-23-76     A portion of Progress Rd. west of Alex Rd.
2049      10-11-77    A portion of South Moraine Blvd.
                      Alley commencing east of Elm St. and extending from
2082      5-9-78      Pierce St., northwest to the vacated alley south of and
                      adjacent to the New York Central Railroad.
2124      5-8-79      A portion of Rusby Avenue from Locust Street to Elm
                      Street
                      A portion of Sheffield Road between PT lot 2521 to the
2496      4-23-85     west and PT lot 2521 to the east within South Moraine
                      Plat Section 2, with the easement 20 feet in width
                      retained.
able III Vacating of Streets and Alleys 9
                      A portion of an alley which lies south of lots 1414,
                      1413, 1412, and 1385 within the Andrew Evert Plat, south
2518      7-23-85     of lot 1382 within the John Taylor Plat and north of PT
                      lot 1460, with the public utility easement to the width
                      and length of the alley retained.
                      An alley located between West Central Avenue and West
2655      5-10-88     Main Street, connecting Miami Avenue and Squire Street,
                      with a public utility easement to the width and length of
                      said alley retained.
Res. 9-91 4-23-91     Establishing a fee for processing petitions to vacate
                      streets, alleys and utility easements.
                      A portion of Alex-Bell Road between East Dixie Drive and
2817      9-10-91     Central Avenue along the east line of the abandoned Miami
                      and Erie Canal Lands and west lines of the lots 1429 and
                      1430.
                      A portion of Alexandersville Road from the south right-
2864      9-8-92      of-way line of East Dixie Drive south to within
                      approximately 50 feet of the south lines of city lots
                      1466 and 1438.
                      The portion of Miami Avenue between Farmersville-West
2865      9-8-92      Carrollton Road and Evergreen Cemetery, being adjacent to
                      city lot numbers A, PT I, II, III and PT 4185.
                      Portions of Cottage Avenue, Smith Street and Walnut
2877      10-27-92    Street between Miami Avenue and North Elm Street, with a
                      public utility easement to the width and length of said
                      roads being retained.
3106      11-24-98    Portion of Old Farmersville-West Carrollton Rd. between
                      Hydraulic Rd. and the Great Miami River.
3436      12-22-09    Amending Res. 9-91; fees for processing petitions to
                      vacate streets, alleys and utility easements.
                      Two sections of East Blossom Hill Road east of South Elm
3454      9-28-10     Street, abutting Hintermeister Park and Harry Russell
                      School property.
 
 
TABLE IV: DEDICATION AND PLAT APPROVAL
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
303      6-3-19      Plat of Alonzo Michael (0.89 acres).
317      5-18-20     Plat of Ray Peirce addition (5.55 acres).
324      10-19-20    Plat of Henry Zapp heirs addition (3.58 acres).
419      8-1-27      Plat of American Envelope Co. addition (7.76 acres).
425      9-6-27      Plat of W.E. Shade No. 1 addition (3.62 acres).
453      1-2-29      Plat of Jacob Ely's Clover Leaf addition.
455      1-8-29      Plat of Henry Binkley's addition.
511      9-1-31      Accepts deed from board of education conveying a strip to
                     be used for highway purposes.
577      7-5-39      Plat of Mutual Federal Savings and Loan Assn. (3.78
                     acres).
                     Opening the existing alleyway running perpendicular to
894      5-11-57     Miami Ave. behind Lots 65, 66 and 67 and along the side of
                     Lot 48.
                     Plat of Orchard Hill Construction Co. No. 1 (dedication of
1051     11-8-60     Windsor Ave. from Gibbons Rd. to Savoy Ave., Gibbons Rd.,
                     Enxing Ave. and Astor Ave.).
                     Plat of Mitchell Subdivision Section 1 through 4
1052     12-27-60    (dedication of Shade Dr., Richie Dr., Risley Dr., Cottage
                     Ave. from Cedar St. to Hydraulic Rd., and Cedar St. from
                     Cottage to Catherine Aves.).
                     Plat of Orchard Hill Subdivision 6, 8 and 9 (dedication of
                     Skyview Dr., Upland Circle, Upland Dr., Maple Hill Dr.
1053     12-13-60    from Skyview Dr. to Cherry Blossom Place, Peach Orchard
                     Dr. from Skyview Dr. 200 feet east, and Cherry Blossom Dr.
                     from Skyview Dr. 200 feet east).
1099     11-14-61    Plat of Orchard Hill Construction Co. No. 1 (dedication of
                     Windsor Ct., Savoy Ave. and Landview Ave.).
                     Plat of Orchard Hill Estates Section 9 (dedication of
1100     11-14-61    Maple Hill Dr. north 3 lots from Cherry Blossom Place,
                     Cherry Blossom Place, Cherry Blossom Dr. and Peach Orchard
                     Dr. from Cherry Blossom Dr. to Blossom Hill Rd.).
                     Accepting Redington Ct. and north half of Gibbons Rd. from
                     Lot 1711 to Lot 1693; accepting Savoy Ave. from Gibbons
1144A    10-9-62     Rd. to Redington Park, Vickers Place from Savoy Ave. to
                     Redington Park, and north half of Gibbons Rd. from Elm St.
                     to Lot 1720.
1213     8-13-63     Accepts Trina Dr. and Terrace Ct.
1232     1-28-64     Accepting Glenada Ct. and north half of Gibbons Rd. from
                     Lot 1784 to Lot 1769.
                     Accepting Randy Dr., De-De Ct., Hillhaven Dr. from Orchard
                     Hill Dr. north and east 561.37 feet, Orchard Hill Dr. from
1262A    10-27-64    Alexandersville Rd. east 934.92 feet, and east side of
                     Alexandersville Rd. from Grantland Terrace Section 1 south
                     1122.42 feet.
1369     6-23-66     Dedication of Progress Rd.
1383     8-16-66     Dedication of Elementary Dr.
                     Plat of Clearview Development Co. Section 1, Plat 1
1385     7-26-66     (dedication of portions of Alexandersville Rd. and Orchard
                     Hill Dr.).
1529     7-9-68      Accepts streets in Carrollton Manor Plat, Section 1.
1530     7-9-68      Accepts streets in Carrollton Manor Plat, Sections 2A and
                     2B.
1569     11-26-68    Accepts streets in Carrollton Manor Plat, Section 3.
1586     2-11-69     Accepts streets in Delshire Plat, Sections 2 and 3.
1614     10-14-69    Accepts streets in Carrollton Manor Plat, Section 4.
1619     11-11-69    Accepts streets in Camellia Terrace, Section 2.
2046     10-27-77    Accepts streets in Sherwood Forest Plat, Section 12-B.
2047     10-27-77    Accepts streets in Sherwood Forest Plat, Section 14.
2048     10-27-77    Accepts streets in Sherwood Forest Plat, Section 14-A.
                     Acceptance and dedication of alley located between Central
2598     7-14-87     Avenue and Main Street, connecting Miami Avenue and Squire
                     Street.
2990     9-26-95     Accepting Mars Hill Drive and other public improvement for
                     the Union Hill Apartments Subdivision.
 
 
TABLE V: ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF REAL PROPERTY
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
80   3-12-  Authorizes sale of part of Lot 70 on Elm St.
     1900
81   4-16-  Authorizes deed to property authorized to be sold by Ord. 80.
     1900
345  10-2-  Accepts deed from board of education for land at NW corner of Cedar St. and
     22     Central Ave.
391  4-6-25 Accepts deed from Young for 8 feet strip adjacent and parallel to north line of
            Riverside addition.
472  10-1-  Accepts deed from Harry Zimmerman conveying his dower interest in the
     29     Kindleberg's 4 acre tract.
            Accepts deeds for opening and extension of certain streets; Frank & Susie
            Campbell deed to extend Elm St., Locust St. and Rusby Ave.; James D. Owen Eby
     12-6-  deed to extend Elm St.; Jacob Eby deed to extend Cottage Ave. and Elm St.;
569  38     James Eby deed to extend Cottage and Miami Aves.; Susie Campbell deed to extend
            Miami Ave., Cottage Ave. and Smith St.; Bloomershine deed to extend Smith St.,
            Cottage Ave. and Walnut St.; Sallenberger deed to extend Cottage Ave.; Owen Eby
            deed to extend Walnut St., Cottage Ave. and Elm St.
644  12-28- Authorizes execution of option to purchase Andrews property at NW corner of
     43     Central Ave. and Locust St.
783  4-8-52 Appropriation to widen Squire Ave.
878  8-14-  Authorizes quit claim deed to federal government for a post office at NE corner
     56     of Locust St. and E. Central Ave.
906  12-10- Releasing certain lands (0.105 acres) near SE corner of Lot 51 to construct a
     57     street.
993  7-28-  Authorizes sale of 0.188 acres being part of Section 21, Twp. 1, Range 6.
     59
1005 11-10- Appropriation of 5.998 acres in Section 27, Twp. 1, Range 6 for construction of
     59     sewage disposal plant.
1022 3-8-60 Authorize sale of 0.188 acres being part of Section 21, Twp. 1, Range 6.
1047 8-9-60 Authorizes purchase of 2 parcels (1.385 and 0.188 acres) from Walter E. Shade.
1050 11-8-  Accepting deed from board of education and dedicating Kimberly Lane.
     60
1112 12-12- Authorizes transfer of 2.922 acres of state canal lands to the village.
     61
1117 2-13-  Authorizes sale of 0.188 acres on Elm St.
     62
1126 4-17-  Authorizes transfer of 0.197 acres of state canal lands to the village.
     62
1146 9-11-  Repeals Ord. 1126.
     62
     5-28-  Authorizes transfer to the village of state canal lands (parcels 9813-5052,
1202 63     9810.00,
            9812.08, 9813.0004 and 9825-2084).
1250 7-28-  Authorizes purchase of Lots 346 through 350 from Leonard Mills.
     64
1371 6-28-  Amends Ord. 1202 modifying legal description of Canal land parcel 9813-5052.
     66
1428 4-11-  Amends Ord. 1202 modifying legal description of Canal land parcel 9813-5052;
     67     Repeals Res. 1371.
1451 7-18-  Authorizes purchase from McKinney of 0.833 acres at 3700 Miamisburg -
     67     Centerville Rd.
1479 12-26- Releases claim to 0.278 acres of state canal lands; amends Ord. 1202.
     67
1488 1-23-  Releases claim to 11,760 sq. ft. of state canal lands; amends Ord. 1202.
     68
1502 4-9-68 Releases claim to portion of state canal lands; amends Ord. 1202.
1503 4-9-68 Releases claim to 13,600 square feet of state canal lands; amends Ord. 1202.
1504 4-9-68 Releases claim to 0.25 acres of state canal lands; amends Ord. 1202.
1505 4-9-68 Releases claim to 11,760 square feet of state canal lands; amends Ord. 1202.
1506 4-9-68 Releases claim to 6,336 square feet of state canal lands; amends Ord. 1202.
1515 5-14-  Releases claim to portion of state canal lands; amends Ord. 1202.
     68
1516 5-14-  Releases claim to 8,000 square feet of state canal lands; amends Ord. 1202.
     68
     8-27-  Releases claim to 5,500 square feet (Plat 216 of H.C. Baldwin Survey) of state
1554 68     canal lands as set forth in city application dated and filed May, 1963,
            pursuant to Ord. 1202.
Res. 11-12- Amends application to state of May, 1963, to acquire certain canal lands
1566 68     deleting 0.195 acre.
1590 2-25-  Purchase of 2 parcels totaling 1.616 acres from Walter E. Shade.
     69
1595 4-8-69 Purchase of 2 parcels from state department of public works.
Res.        Revises application of May, 1963, to acquire certain canal lands from the state
11-  7-8-69 by deleting 25,500 square feet.
69
1605 8-26-  Purchase to widen Zapp Ave.
     69
1616 1-28-  Appropriation to widen Alex Rd.
     69
1618 11-11- Appropriation to widen Alex Rd.
     69
Res. 2-10-  Revises application of May, 1963, to acquire certain canal lands from the state
6-70 70     by deleting 4,243 square feet.
Res. 4-28-  Authorizes application to transfer state canal land parcel No. M&M-MON-
14-  70     9831.7378 containing 0.094 acres.
70
1668 9-22-  Authorization of purchase of Lot N. 3,108.
     70
     4-19-  Appropriate to the public use the legal interest required for certain real
1964 76     property being the parcels recited hereinafter for the project M-IN06(3), known
            as East Dixie Dr.
1988 11-23- Appropriate property for new municipal building.
     76
1989 11-23- Appropriate property for new municipal building.
     76
1999 3-1-77 Purchase property for park (Donnington Dr.).
Res.
11-  8-9-77 Transfer ownership of certain canal lands from State of Ohio to city.
77
Res. 2-28-  Authorizes application to transfer state canal lands to the city.
6-78 78
2081 5-9-78 Appropriate land for expansion of sewage treatment plant.
2101 11-14- Sale of 2 parcels of real estate, no longer needed for municipal purpose, at
     78     the corner of Skyview Dr. and Ironwood Dr.
2224 9-23-  Authorizing the sale of lot 3120 of the consecutive lot numbers of the city.
     80
2314 4-13-  Authorizing the purchase of a parcel of real estate containing approximately
     82     7.6047 acres to be used by the city for a recreational park.
2334 6-22-  Appropriate certain property to correct or alleviate dangerous traffic problems
     82     by extending Marina Dr. to Central Ave.
Res. 5-10-  Authorizing purchase of land in lot 33 of the Revised Plat of the city, for use
10-  83     as a public parking lot.
83
2432 4-10-  Authorizing the purchase of land at 32 North Elm Street in accordance with
     84     plans for Phase II of the Carrollton Center project.
2478 12-11- Authorizing the purchase of a parcel of real estate located at 12 East Main
     84     Street to develop a parking lot for Phase II of the Carrollton Center project.
2482 12-26- Authorizing the purchase of a parcel of real estate owned by Bank One, Dayton
     84     to develop a parking lot for Phase II of the Carrollton Center project.
2596 6-23-  Authorizing the purchase of certain property in the city as part of the city's
     87     West Central Avenue Redevelopment Project.
2597 6-23-  Authorizing the purchase of certain property in the city as part of the city's
     87     West Central Avenue Redevelopment Project.
2653 3-22-  Authorizing the purchase of a parcel of real estate located at 323 East Central
     88     Avenue.
2660 5-10-  Appropriating two parcels of property located in the city for the public
     88     purpose of constructing storage facilities.
Res. 3-27-  Appropriating three parcels of property for construction of public parks and
14-  90     playgrounds.
90
2750 5-8-90 Appropriating three parcels of property located in the city for the public
            purpose of constructing public playgrounds and parks.
2801 5-14-  Exchange of real property with the Evergreen Cemetry Association in order to
     91     provide soccer fields for the city.
2812 7-23-  Appropriating the fee simple interest in property for the purpose of improving
     91     Infirmary Road in the city.
Res. 1-14-  Appropriating property to provide parking areas for the West Carrollton Soccer
1-92 92     Complex and Harmon Fields in the city.
2848 2-11-  Appropriating the fee simple interest in property to provide parking areas for
     92     the West Carrollton Soccer Complex and Harmon Field in the city.
2911 11-9-  Appropriating property for the improvement of Alex-Bell Road.
     93
2951 7-12-  Approving the reconveyance of a portion of a parcel of real estate previously
     94     conveyed to the city, correcting an error in the legal description thereof.
2958 10-11- Appropriating property for the improvement of the Hydraulic Road Bikeway.
     94
3156 2-8-00 Appropriates Lot No. 1 of revised number of lots on City plat.
3190 8-28-  Appropriates part of Lot 2504 for improvement of Miami and Erie Canal Park near
     01     Marina Drive bikeway.
3225 11-26- Authorizes purchase agreement for real estate parcel at corner of Liberty Lane
     02     and Alex Rd. for construction of YMCA.
Res. 3-25-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract for the purchase of four
8-08 08     parcels of property totaling 6 acres plus or minus from the estate of Woody
            Bowman for the purpose of economic redevelopment.
Res. 7-14-
19-  09     Accepting donation of property at 509 West Central Ave. from Loisman Cook.
09
Res.
24-  9-8-09 Authorizing sale of .0643 acres of property at 505 N. Burns Ave.
09
Res.
25-  9-8-09 Authorizing purchase of .3489 acres of property at 130 and 132 N. Smith St.
09
3429 10-27- Authorizing sale of 0.058 acres of property at 505 N. Burns Ave.
     09
Res. 5-11-  Authorizes contract for the purchase of 16.5904 acres of land, at 7080 Alex
22-  10     Road, commonly known as the Lyons Property.
2010
Res. 6-22-  Authorizes contract for the purchase of property at 214 North Alex Road, for
27-  10     the purpose of economic development and to provide additional access to City
2010        property located on Bowman Lane.
Res. 6-22-  Authorizes contract for the purchase of property at 218 North Alex Road, for
28-  10     the purpose of economic development and to provide additional access to City
2010        property located on Bowman Lane.
Res. 12-14- Authorizes contract for the purchase of property at 833 East Central Avenue for
43-  10     the purpose of economic development.
2010
Res. 12-28- Authorizes contract for the purchase of property along West Central Avenue,
46-  10     South Elm Street and South Smith Street commonly known as the Fraser Paper Site
2010        for the purpose of community safety and economic development.
Res. 12-18- Authorizes accepting the donation of 5.3496 acres of property at 1450 South Elm
45-  12     Street.
2012
3530        8-13-13Authorizes the sale and temporary lease of 955 East Dixie Drive to the
            Ohio Department of Transportation.
Res. 5-27-  Authorizes the City Manager to accept the”Donation” of 29 acres of property at
26-  14     4000 Hydraulic Road.
2014
            6-10-14Authorizes the City Manager to enter into a contract with Community
3545        Concepts, Inc. for the sale of 27-29, 31-33 and 35-37 West Pease Avenue, being
            City Lot Nos. 181, 182 and 183, respectively.
            7-22-14Authorizes the City Manager to enter into an agreement with Dayton Ohio
3547        Habitat for Humanity, Inc. for the donation of a building lot at 34 E. Pease
            Avenue, being City Lot No. 131, for the purpose of constructing one single-
            family owner-occupied residence.
            12-9-14Authorizes the City Manager to enter into an agreement with Miami Valley
            In-Ovations, Inc. for the conveyance of property owned by the City at 204 W.
3552        Main Street, being City Lot No. 19, in exchange for property owned by Miami
            Valley In-Ovations, Inc. at 1644 Silver Bugle Lane, being City Lot Nos. 4046
            and 4047, for the immediate purpose of constructing one single-family residence
            at 204 W. Main Street.
3554        11-25-14Authorizes the City Manager to enter into a contract with Nathanael and
            Katie Carmack for the sale of 325 Applehill Drive.
Res. 1-27-  Authorizes the City Manager to enter into a contract for the purchase of .1618
12-  15     acres of property located at 233-235 W. Pease Avenue, being City Lot No. 196,
2015        for the purpose of community redevelopment.
     3-22-  Authorizes agreement with Habitat for Humanity of Greater Dayton, Inc., for the
3578 16     donation of a building lot at 24 W. Pease Avenue, being City Lot No. 207, for
            the purpose of constructing one single-family, owner-occupied residence.
     3-22-  Authorizes agreement with Habitat for Humanity of Greater Dayton Inc., for the
3579 16     donation of a building lot at 213-215 W. Pease Avenue, being City Lot No. 193,
            for the purpose of constructing one single-family, owner-occupied residence.
     3-22-  Authorizes agreement with Habitat for Humanity of Greater Dayton, Inc., for the
3580 16     donation of a building lot at 233-235 W. Pease Avenue, being City Lot No. 196,
            for the purpose of constructing one single-family, owner- occupied residence.
            Authorizes contract for the sale of a parcel of real estate owned by the City
3585 4-26-  of West Carrollton and located at the corner of Skyview Drive and Ironwood
     16     Drive, being part of City Lot No. 876, which is no longer needed for any
            municipal purpose.
Res.
22-  9-27-  Authorizing a purchase agreement to acquire 1.016 plus or minus acres of
2016 16     property at One South Elm Street.
Res.
11-  4-11-  Authorizing the City Manager to assume the obligations of Driftwood Ventures,
2017 17     IV, LLC under that certain real estate purchase agreement dated October 13,
            2016, as amended.
Res.
16-  2-27-  Authorizing the City Manager to purchase approximately 0.2 acres of property
2018 18     located at the northeast corner of the intersection of W. Central Avenue and N.
            Miami Avenue.
Res.
26-  8-28-  Authorizing the City Manager to purchase 34 Maplehill Circle at the cost of
2018 18     $10,000.
Res.
36-  11-13- Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a purchase agreement with HNCM, LLC
2018 18     for the purchase of 5649 Marina Drive for the amount of $330,000.
Res.
37-  11-13- Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a purchase agreement with June
2018 18     Helmers for the purchase of 5449 Marina Drive for the amount of $182,000.
Res.
11-  3-12-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a purchase agreement for 402 South Elm
2019 19     Street at the cost of $75,000.
Res.
14-  3-26-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a purchase agreement for 403 South Elm
2019 19     Street at the cost of $127,235.
Res.
15-  3-26-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a purchase agreement for part of
2019 19     Shadybrook Lane at the cost of $1,000.
            Authorizing the City Manager to transfer 17 city owned properties: 38 N. Walnut
            St.; 303 W. Central Ave.; Central Ave.; 227 W. Central Ave.; 518 E. Dixie Dr.;
3658 - -    518 E. Dixie Dr.; 127 Allen Pl.; 1450 S. Elm St.; 5449 Marina Dr.; 1000 E.
            Dixie Dr.; 1100 & 1190 E. Dixie Dr.; S. Dixie Dr.; 5649 Marina Dr.; 5641 Marina
            Dr.; 1201 Sherwood Forest Dr.; 1644 Silver Bugle Ln.; 1644 Silver Bugle Ln. to
            the Montgomery County Land Reutilization Corporation.
            Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an option purchase agreement with
3687 11-24- MVAH Holding LLC, for a 5.4 acre city owned property located at 1450 Elm
     20     Street, the sales price per acre is $40,000 and the agreed upon sales price is
            $210,000.
3694 5-11-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a purchase agreement with Eros
     21     Investments LLC, for the sale of 323 East Central Avenue.
3695 5-11-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a purchase agreement with Eros
     21     Investments LLC, for the sale of 505 Burns Avenue.
3696 5-11-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a purchase agreement with Eros
     21     Investments LLC, for the sale of 111 West Pease Avenue.
3697 5-11-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a purchase agreement with Eros
     21     Investments LLC, for the sale of 235 East Main Street.
3698 5-11-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a purchase agreement with Eros
     21     Investments LLC, for the sale of 1201 Sherwood Forest Drive.
     8-10-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a sales agreement with Kellogg
3704 21     Equities LLC, for the purpose of selling the city owned property at 31 Locust
            Street for a sales price of $89,000.
3722 3-22-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with Long Bow Owners
     22     Association for the transfer of 1644 Silver Bugle Lane.
            Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a purchase agreement with GOC REALCO
3750 5-9-23 LLC for the sale of 0.75 acres of real property generally located in 1100 East
            Dixie Drive, identified as Montgomery County Parcel ID No. K48 00509 0037.
 
 
TABLE VI: LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
347          11-20-22    Authorizes lease from the state of part of Miami and
                         Erie Canal property for park and amusement purposes.
                         Authorizes acceptance of permit from the state to use
434          2-20-28     certain canal property for park and amusement
                         purposes.
486          4-1-30      Authorizes lease of certain land of Oxford Miami Paper
                         Co.
560          12-7-37     Authorizes lease renewal for canal lands.
617          5-5-42      Authorizes lease of 0.4 acre from Oxford Miami Paper
                         Co. for public parking lot purposes.
1113         12-12-61    Authorizes lease with state for 4 parcels of Miami and
                         Erie Canal lands.
1146         9-11-62     Authorizes cancellation of Canal Lease 337.
                         Lease of 2 parcels being part of abandoned canal lands
Res. 5-69    3-25-69     from the state department of public works for use as a
                         public park.
2206         4-22-80     Authorizes the lease of a portion of the city well
                         field for use as a parking lot.
                         Affirming the name of Burns Avenue as the official
Res. 37-95   9-12-95     name for the public street located between E. Central
                         Avenue and N. Alex Road.
Res. 20-2009 7-27-09     Authorizes 2 Canal Land Leases with State of Ohio at
                         former Frazier Paper site.
                         Authorizing an agreement with Adventures on the Great
Res. 14-2017 4-25-17     Miami to lease the City owned property at 5641 Marina
                         Drive for the purpose of operating a canoe and kayak
                         livery.
 
 
TABLE VII: STREET GRADE LEVELS; STREET AND OTHER NAME CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
36   6-20-  Grade of Main St. from Poplar to Bridge Sts.
     1893
37   6-20-  Grade of Locust St. from Central Ave. to Main St.
     1893
38   6-20-  Grade of Bridge St. from Central Ave. to Main St.
     1893
39   6-20-  Grade of Elm St. from Central Ave. to Main St.
     1893
40   6-20-  Grade of Smith St. from Central Ave. to Main St.
     1893
41   6-20-  Grade of Central Ave. from Poplar to Bridge Sts.
     1893
42   6-20-  Grade of Walnut St. from Central Ave. to Main St.
     1893
43   6-20-  Grade of Peace Ave. from Poplar to Elm Sts.
     1893
78   6-28-  Grade of Central Ave. from Elm to Burns Sts.
     1897
83   ll-12- Grade of Central Ave. from Burns to Cedar Sts.
     1900
108  ll-2-  Repeals grade Ords. 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 78 and 83.
     03
109  3-7-04 Grade of Central Ave. from Cedar to Bridge Sts.
110  3-7-04 Grade of Main St. from east corporation line to Bridge St.
151  1-19-  Grade on north side of Central Ave. from Cedar St. to east corporation line.
     09
179  5-7-12 Grade of Elm St. from the bridge crossing the Miami and Erie Canal to the
            Cincinnati and Springfield Railway Co. right-of-way.
272  9-10-  Grade of Central Ave. from Ohio Electric Railway tracks to a point 400 feet
     15     west of Cedar St.
327  2-16-  Naming Michael Lane.
     21
353  7-2-23 Grade of Elm St. from 50 feet south of Central Ave. to a point 148.5 feet
            south.
378  7-21-  Name change: Bridge St. to Miami Ave.
     24
576  6-6-39 Grade of Katherine Ave. from Burns Ave. to County Rd.
637  5-11-  Designating and naming East Dixie Drive, Bellbrook Rd., Alexandersville Rd.
     43     and Zapp Ave.
752  6-12-  Grade of Maplehill Dr.
     51
753  6-12-  Grade of Elmview Circle.
     51
754  6-12-  Grade of Maplehill Circle.
     51
964  2-10-  Grimes Rd., from Elm St. west to its terminus, to Gibbons Rd.
     59
1353 4-26-  Name change: Azalia Rd. to Mayrose Dr., and Hyacinth Dr. to Cosmos Dr.
     66
1365 6-28-  Name change; Alexandersville Rd., from E. Dixie Dr. to State Route 725, to
     66     Alex Rd.
1558 9-24-  Naming Crossover St. and Marina Dr.
     68
     9-23-  Name changes: Zapp Ave. and Hydraulic Rd. to Alex Rd.; E. Dixie Dr. to E.
1608 69     Central Ave.; E. Central Ave. to E. Central Lane; Alexandersville-Bellbrook
            Rd. to Alex-Bell Rd.
1785 6-12-  Name change: A portion of Old Alex Rd. to Alex Ct.
     73
1917 7-8-75 Name change: Orchard Hill Dr. between Huncke Rd. and Elm St.; to Wilson Park
            Dr.
1927 8-26-  Name change: Orchard Hill Rd. west of Elm St. to Little Ct.
     75
1932 10-14- Name change: from Nyetha Dr. to Cherokee Dr.
     75
2200 4-22-  Name change: Miamisburg Centerville Rd. between Alex Rd. and Sidneywood Dr. to
     80     Watertower Ln.
2202 4-22-  Name change: Public portion of Villa South Dr. to Bluff Pl.
     80
2217 8-26-  Grade of old U.S. 25 from the pavement change north of Woody's northbound 1.24
     80     mile to S.R. 741 southbound from State Rd. 741, 0.76 of a mile.
2221 9-9-80 Naming several streets:
            (1)The connector road between East Central Ave. and East Dixie Dr. shall be
            known as Handle St.
            (2)The southern extension of Locust St. to the railroad tracks shall be known
            as South Locust St.
            (3)The access road to the municipal pool shall be known as Pool Ln.
            (4)The access road surrounding the civic center from Central Ave. around the
            civic center to Elm St. shall be known as Slonaker Dr.
2231 12-23- Name change: East Dixie Dr. in the vicinity of 903 to 955 East Dixie Dr. to
     80     East Dixie Ln.
2232 1-22-  Naming a street: The connector street between East Central Ave. and East Dixie
     81     Dr. in the vicinity of 955 East Dixie Dr. shall be known as Hile St.
2602 7-28-  Name change: From Action Road to Gargrave Road.
     87
Res. 1-12-  Name change: Grant Farm Park to Hintermeister Park.
4-88 88
3226 11-26- Naming a street: Public street west of Civic Center between S. Locust St. and
     02     S. Elm St. shall be known as Slonaker Dr.
Res. 3-14-
8-   06     Name change: From Marina Drive to Veterans Way.
2006
Res. 6-23-
17-  09     Name change: Main St. between Cedar St. and Pease Ave. designated Frush Way.
2009
Res. 10-27- Name change: Elm St. between Main St. and Central Ave. designated B.H. Kokenge
32-  09     Way.
2009
3511 6-12-  Street name change:
     12
            (a)Crossover St., Exeter Rd., and portion of E. Dixie Drive to Manchester
            Road.
            (b)Portion of E. Central Ave. to E. Dixie Drive.
            (c)Eliminating these names:
            E. Dixie Lane
            Hile Street
            Necessitated by Exit 47 Reconstruction Project.
Res. 10-11- Designating a portion of North Elm Street as “Kokenge Way” in honor of the
24-  16     Kokenge Family.
2016
Res.
18-         3-13-18Designating a portion of Slonaker Avenue as “Officer Fred Beard Way”.
2018
 
 
TABLE VIII: ANNEXATION AND DETACHMENT OF TERRITORY
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorizes annexation of land situated in Sections 21, 22
30       6-20-1893   and 27, Twp. 1, Range 6 (near the intersection of Central
                     Ave. and waste way from Miami Canal to Great Miami River).
                     Authorizes annexation of land in Section 21, Twp. 1, Range
64       8-27-1894   6 (near the intersection of Central Ave. and waste way
                     from Miami Canal to Great Miami River).
153      5-18-09     Authorizes annexation of land in Section 21, Twp. 1, Range
                     6 (near present NW corporation line).
                     Authorizes annexation of part of Sections 21 and 22, Twp.
295      6-18-18     1, Range 6 (near intersection of present south corporation
                     limits and Smith St.).
                     Authorizes annexation of part of Sections 21 and 22, Twp.
301      3-18-19     1, Range 6 (near intersection of present corporation limit
                     and Lowery tract).
399      8-3-25      Authorizes annexation of land near intersection of Smith
                     St. and SE corporation line. 7.76 acres.
                     Authorizes annexation of part of Sections 15, 16, 21 and
604      8-26-41     22, Twp. 1, Range 6 (95.25 acres near intersection of NE
                     corporation line and NYC Railway right-of-way).
615      3-24-42     Accepts annexation authorized by Ord. 604.
719      6-28-49     Annexation application of Orville M. Southard for Orchard
                     Hill Estates Plat Section 2.
723      10-25-49    Accepts annexation application of Orville M. Southard for
                     Orchard Hill Estates Plat Section 2.
                     Accepting annexaton application of Orville M. Southard et
737      6-27-50     al for 26.72 acres being a part of Section 21, Twp. 1,
                     Range 6.
                     Accepting annexation application of Orville M. Southard et
765      10-9-51     al for 85.54 acres being parts of Sections 20 and 21, Twp.
                     1, Range 6.
825      10-12-54    Adopting Orville M. Southard petition for annexation filed
                     Oct. 12, 1954.
                     Acepting annexation application of Louis E. Tracy, as
862      1-10-56     agent for Petitioners, for 453.95 acres in Sections 15 and
                     21, Twp. 1, Range 6.
868      2-28-56     Authorizing annexation of 1916.03 acres being parts of
                     Sections 9, 10, 14, 15 and 16.
                     Accepting annexation application of Orville M. Southard et
880      10-9-56     al for 46 acres being a part of Section 20, Twp. 1, Range
                     6.
944      8-12-58     Accepting annexation application of Stachler for 47.32
                     acres in Section 14, Twp. 1, Range 6.
1176     4-30-63     Accepting annexation application of Carlson W. Bogan et al
                     for 95.35 acres in Section 20, Twp. 1, Range 6.
1210     7-31-63     Authorizes annexation of 295 acres being parts of Sections
                     13 and 14, Twp. 1, Range 6.
1214     8-20-63     Corrects legal description for annexation of 295 acres
                     authorized by Ord. 1210.
1219     9-18-63     Authorizes annexation of 320 acres being parts of Section
                     13 and 14, Twp. 1, Range 6.
1226     11-12-63    Repeals Ord. 1219.
1260     9-8-64      Authorizes annexation of 96.436 acres being part of
                     Section 15, Twp. 1, Range 6.
1300     5-11-65     Accepting annexation applica-tion of Louis E. Tracy for
                     96.436 acres in Section 15, Twp. 1, Range 6.
                     Accepting annexation applica-tion of Harry W. Myers et al
1349     3-22-66     for 545.1 acres in Sections 13, 14, 19 and 20, Twp. 1,
                     Range 6.
                     Authorizes commencement of annexation proceedings for
1355     4-12-66     Hydraulic Rd. from existing corporation line at Burns St.
                     eastward to Zapp Ave.
                     9-15-66Accepting annexation applica-tion of P. Daniel
1388                 Fedders (agent for Robert J. Hackett) for 104.036 acres in
                     Sections 14 and 15, Twp. 1, Range 6.
                     9-15-66Accepting annexation applica-tion of Louis E. Tracy
1390                 for Hydraulic Rd. from the existing corporation line at
                     Burns St. to Zapp Ave. 5.0 acres.
                     2-14-67Accepting annexation applica-tion of Frank
1415                 Pennington et al for 7.4 acres in Section 20, Twp. 1,
                     Range 6.
143l                 4-11-67Expresses council intention to accept pending
                     annexation application for 338.2 acres.
1459                 10-5-67Accepts annexation application of P. Daniel Fedders
                     for 338.2 acres in Sections 15 and 16, Twp. 1, Range 6.
                     10-10-67Accepts annexation application of P. Daniel
1460                 Fedders for 338.2 acres in Sections 15 and 16, Twp. 1,
                     Range 6; repeals Ord. 1459.
146l                 11-14-67Releases claim to 18,512 sq. ft. of state canal
                     lands; amends Ord. 1202.
                     6-25-68Annexation application of Clement V. Jacobs, agent
1523                 for petitioners, for 110.1 acres being part of Sections 20
                     and 21, Twp. 1, Range 6 MRS.
1672                 11-10-70Drake - 6.3 acres.
1680                 12-22-70Orchard Hill Boundary Adj. .754 acres.
                     6-23-81Authorizes annexation of 1595 acres, more or less
                     situated in Sections 29 and 30, town 1, range 6 east;
2242                 Sections 35 and 36, town 3, range 5 east; Sections 16, 21,
                     22, 26, 27, and 28, town 1, range 6 MRS; Section 2, town
                     2, range 5 east Miami Township, and Sections 24, 25, and
                     26, town 3, range 5 east, Jefferson Township.
Res.
                     Accepts annexation of 33.339 acres west of Upper River Rd.
22-2001  9-25-01     and south of corporation line, from Miami Twp. to the
                     City.
Res.
                     Accepts annexation of 83.365 acres along south side of
16-2002  5-28-02     Farmersville - W. Carrollton Rd., 200 ft. west of CSX RR
                     crossing, from Miami Twp. to the City.
 
 
TABLE IX: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
1247 5-26-  A-102Two parcels (18.18 and 0.285 acres) being parts of Lots 1166 and 1616
     64     from R-2 to M-l District.
1249 6-9-64 A-103Lots 47 through 51, 57 through 59 and 165 through 176 from R-3 to B-
            l District.
1257 9-8-64 Amending the zoning map by adding territory annexed by Ord.1176.
1272 12-8-  A-105Lots 1380 and 1381 from B-l to B-2 Districts.
     64
1273 12-8-  A-1042.405 acres at intersection of Gibbons and Alexandersville Rds. from R-
     64     2 to R-2 Districts.
1340 1-11-  A-10733.114 acres on Heincke Rd. from R-1 to R-2 Districts.
     66
1354 4-12-  A-1090.334 acres on Central Ave. from B-l to B-2 Districts.
     66
     4-26-  A-108Parcel 1 (3.554 acres) on Zapp Ave. from R-2 to R-3 Districts; Parcel 2
1357 66     consisting of Lot 1454 and parts of Lots 1465, 1399 and 1400 (10.843 acres)
            from R-2 to M-1 Districts.
1362 5-10-  Amends description of Parcel 2 in Ord. 1357 to consist of 14.397 acres.
     66
            A-11064.716 acres at intersection of Orchard Hill Dr. and Alexandersville Rd.
1378 7-15-  from Twp. R-1 and R-2 Districts to village R-3 District; 115.253 acres from
     66     Twp. R-1 and R-2 to village R-l Districts; 2 acres from Twp. R-1 to village
            B-1 Districts; 22.118 acres from Twp. R-1 and R-2 to village B-2 Districts.
     11-22- A-111Lots 2174, 2257 and 2258 zoned M-1; Lots 2290 through 2293 and 2295
1399 66     through 2305 zoned B-2; 200 feet off north portion of Lot 2258 zoned R-2;
            Lots 2175, 2252, 2259 through 2289, 2294 and 2306 zoned R-1.
1403 12-13- A-11311.334 acres in Sections 14 and 15 zoned R-2 District; 27.242 acres
     66     zoned R-3 District; 44.995 acres zoned B-1 District.
1404 12-13- A-112Lots 103 through 108 and 205 through 211 from R-3 to B-1 Districts.
     66
1486 1-23-  A-116Lots 2384 through 2389 zoned R-1 District.
     68
1499 3-26-  A-118Lots 2519 and 2520 from Twp. R-3 to city M Districts.
     68
1500 3-26-  A-121200 feet strip on north side of Lot 2258 from R-2 to M Districts.
     68
1517 5-28-  A-122Strip of canal land from Zapp Ave. east to old corporation line from R-
     58     2 to B-1 Districts.
            A-123Parcels 27, 28, 29, 31 and 32 of Allen's Subdivision and 1/2 of Lot 12
1519 7-9-68 (2.6837 acres) on north side Central Ave. between Squire St. and Miami Ave.
            from B-l to B-2 Districts.
1520 6-11-  A-119Rezoning a strip of land on Springboro Pike from Twp. R-3 to city R-
     68     3 District.
     7-23-  A-114Lots 109 through 114 known as the 1/2 block bounded by an alley on the
1539 68     north, by Elm St. on the west, by Main St. on the south and Locust St. on the
            east, from R-3 to B-1 District.
     9-24-  A-124Lots 3116, 3117 and 3125 through 3166 from county A-l to city R-
1557 68     2 District; Lots 3118 through 3124 from county A-1 to city MDistrict; Lots
            3167 through 3205 from county R-1-A to city R-1 District.
1568 11-26- A-127Lots 1452 and 1453 from B-1 to MDistrict.
     68
1585 1-28-  A-128Lots 3206, 3207, 3208, 3213 through 3241 and parts of Lots 2253, 2254,
     69     2256, 3209, 3211 and 3212 from R-1 to R-2 District.
            Lots 2524, 2525, 2526, 2531, 2532, 2533, 2529, 2530, 2887, 2888 and 2889 from
            county B-1 to city B-1 District; Lot 2527 from county B-2 to city B-
            2 District; Lot 2528 from county M-1 to M District; Lots 2519 and 2520 to
1603 9-9-69 remain city M District; Lots 2534 and 2535 to remain city R-3 District; Lots
            3061 through 3064 and 3029 through 3040 are excluded; Lot 2886 and part of
            Lot 2524 and Lots 3009, 3025, 3026, 3028, 3027, 3058, 3059 and 3066 from
            county zoning to city R-3 District.
            A-129Lots 2499, 3063 and 3064 from county zoning to city R-4 District; Lots
1613 10-14- 2500, 2503 through 2511, parts of Lot 2512, Lots 2513 through 2517 and Lot
     69     3062 from county zoning to city B-2 District; Lots 2501, 2502, and 3029
            through 3040 from county zoning to city M District.
1629 1-20-  A-131Part of Lot 2253 (0.532 acres) from R-3 to B-1 District.
     70
1644 5-26-  A-135Skyview Estates Plat from R-1 to R-3 District.
     70
1654 7-13-  A-133Portion of the Alverda S. Fitzgerald land from R-1 to R-3 District.
     70
1655 7-13-  A-133Portion of the Alverda S. Fitzgerald land from R-1 to B-1 District.
     70
1665 8-25-  A-130Rezoning Lots Nos. 1399 and 1400 and part of Lots Nos. 1454 and 1465
     70     from an M to a B-2 zoning district.
1678 12-8-  A-137Rezoning Lot No. 591 from a R-2 to a B-1 zoning district.
     70
1727 3-14-  A-139Part of Lot No. 1460 from an M to a B-1 zoning district.
     72
1728 4-11-  A-140Rezoning Lot No. 1435 and a strip of land 46 feet in width contiguous to
     72     the south side of Lot No. 1435, from a B-1 to a B-2 zoning district.
1701 5-9-72 A-143Rezoning 2 parcels of land being part of Lot No. 2253, from a R-3 to a
            B-1 zoning district.
     12-26- A-145Rezoning a 50.7 acre tract of real estate located at the northeast
1751 72     corner of Alex Rd. and Miamisburg-Centerville Rd., from an R-1 to an R-3, B-
            2 and M zoning district.
1766 1-23-  A-149Rezoning Lot No. 2534 from an R-3 to a B-1 zoning district.
     73
1776 4-10-  A-150Rezoning a 0.684 acre tract of real estate located in Sherwood Forest,
     73     from an R-2 to an R-3 zoning district.
1951 2-24-  A-154Rezoning lots No. 2632, 2633, and 2634, from an R-2 to an O-R zoning
     76     district.
1968 5-11-  A-158Rezoning property located at 3051 Alex-Bell Rd. from an R-2 to an O-
     76     R zoning district.
1977 6-22-  A-159Rezoning a portion of city Lot No. 2524 located north of Holes Creek,
     76     from a B-2 to an M-1 zoning district.
1985 9-28-  A-160Rezoning the northeastern most portion of city Lot No. 1465 from an R-
     76     4 to a B-2 zoning district.
1992 1-13-  A-161Rezoning Lots Nos. 111, 112, 113, 114, and 115 from B-1 to O district.
     77
2032 6-28-  M-162Rezoning Lot No. 2841 from R-2 to O-R.
     77
2037 7-26-  A-163Rezoning Lots Nos. 2953 through 3001 from M-2 to R-2 district.
     77
2061 2-28-  M-164Rezone Lot No. 3812 and unplatted 13.700 acre tract within Progress
     78     Center from M-1 to B-2.
2098 9-26-  Rezone 5-1/4 acres at the southwest corner of Michael Ln. and Locust St. and
     78     Michael Ln. an alley north of Cottage Ave. from R-2 to R-5.
2099 9-26-  Rezone Lot No. 458, 134 S. Elm St. from R-2 to M-1.
     78
2131 5-22-  M-79-1Rezoning the rear portion of the lot located at the north-east corner
     79     of Alex Road at Central Avenue from an R-4 to B-2.
2191 3-11-  PUD-80-1Rezoning a tract of approximately 20.5 acres along Red Bluff Drive
     80     from R-4 to PUD.
     10-14- P-PUD-80-2Rezoning a parcel of real estate containing approxi-mately 28.21
2225 80     acres with 900 feet of frontage along the west side of Indian Trail in the
            city from an R-4 to PUD.
2257 4-28-  M-81-2Rezoning lots 4095 and 4096 from B-1 to R-4.
     81
     4-28-  P-PUD-81-81Rezoning a parcel of real estate containing approximately 16.1
2258 81     acres with 580 foot frontage along the east side of Alex Road at its
            intersection with Elm Street from O-R to R-PUD.
     12-22- M-81-6Rezoning a parcel of real estate containing approximately 2.1 acres of
2298 81     land located directly behind M and M Precision in Progress Industrial Park
            and being part of lot 2258 from B-2 to M-1.
2305 1-26-  M-81-8Rezoning a .20 acre tract of land located at 143 South Elm Street from
     82     R-2 to O-R.
2330 7-13-  Amending the zoning map to provide zoning districts for approximately 1,595
     82     acres of land annexed to the city.
2335 7-13-  M-82-3Rezoning city lot numbers 1437 and 3063 from R-MHP to M-1.
     82
Res. 7-13-  The year 2000 Land Use Map is amended to include light industrial recommended
14-  82     land use for city lots 1436, 1437, 3063, 3064, and PT 2517.
82
     4-26-  Rezoning a 21.3 acre tract, located at the northeast corner of Alex Road and
2368 83     Watertower Lane; consisting of lots 2294 and 2288; from B-2, O, and R-4 to M-
            1.
2371 4-12-  M-83-2Rezoning lots 1440 and 2499 from R-MHP to R-MHP-1.
     83
2422 1-24-  Rezoning a 2.1 acre tract, consisting of lots 9 through 16, located at the
     84     northwest corner of Weir Street and Short Street, from R-2 to R-3.
     6-26-  Rezoning lots 4018 through 4020, 4023 through 4027, 4036 through 4051, 4055,
2445 84     4057 through 4071, 4139 through 4144, 4151 through 4155, 4158 through 4162,
            4333 through 4339, and 4341 through 4356, from R-4 to R-PUD.
2447 7-10-  Rezoning a 16.08-acre portion of lot 2271, located to the northwest of Indian
     84     Trail, from R-PUD to R-5.
2448 7-10-  Rezoning part of lot 2525 and all of lot 2526, located along the west side of
     84     State Route 741, from B-2 to M-2.
2471 11-27- Rezoning lots 549 through 562 from R-5 to R-4.
     84
     6-11-  Rezoning a 14.101 - acre parcel of land located along Alex Road within
2508 85     Progress Center Industrial Park including lot 3812 and part lot 2258 from B-
            2 to M-1.
2515 7-9-85 Rezoning a 2.078-acre portion of city lot 2531 located along Springboro Pike
            behind Dayton Sports Center from B-2 to M-1.
Res. 11-25-
13-  86     P-PUD-86-2Approving preliminary revised PUD.
86
2579 3-10-  Rezoning lots 1441, 1444, 1450, 1451, 1452, 1453, and PT 1449 from R-MHP-1 to
     87     B-2.
2652 4-12-  Rezoning a 16.08 acre portion of lot 2271 located to the northwest of Indian
     88     Trail from R-5 to R-PUD.
2672 9-27-  Rezoning certain areas in the northern, northwestern, and western protions of
     88     the city near the Great Miami River from LD TO LD-1.
2722 1-23-  Rezoning lot numbers 3862, 3863, PT 2256 and PT 2265 from B-2 to B-2/SPI-2.
     90
2786 2-12-  Rezoning lot number PT 1460 from M-1 to B-2.
     91
2745 2-11-  Rezoning lot numbers 2635 to 2639, 2671 to 2675, 2793, 2794 and 2890 to 2901
     92     from R-2 to R-2/SPI-1, Springboro Pike Business District Overlay.
2866 11-24- Rezoning lot numbers 3862, 3863, PT 2256 and PT 2265 from B-2 to B-2/SPI-2.
     92
2867 10-27- Rezoning lot numbers 3917 to 3922 and 3924 to 3929 from R-4 to R-1.
     92
2989 10-24- Rezoning the remaining portion of Part Lot 4204 from LD-1 to M-2.
     95
            Rezoning Lot 4216 from LD-1 to M-2.
            Rezoning Lot 4214 from LD-1 to B-2.
3010 4-9-96 Rezoning Lot 1465 PT, specifically Parcel Identification Numbers K-48-01-11-
            26, 113, 114, 115, 124, 138, and 144 from B-2 to B-2/SPI-4.
3021 7-23-  Rezoning property located on Redbluff Drive being City Lot No. 4121 from R-4,
     96     Multi-Family Residential to R-PUD, Residential Planned Unit Development.
3137 7-13-  City Lots 4521-4523 (Alex Tower Shopping Center and Business Park) from M-
     99     1 Industrial Park to M-1/SPI-5 Industrial Park/Special Interest District.
3203 1-22-  Property at 1000 and 1100 E. Central Ave. (City Lots 4005 and 2500) from B-
     02     2 General Commercial to M-1 Industrial Park District.
3204 2-12-  Property at 5174 Farmersville West Carrollton Rd. (33.339 acres) in Miami
     02     Twp. from FP Flood Plain (Miami Twp.) to M-3 Rural Manufacturing District.
3220 9-24-  Property at 5400 Farmersville West Carrollton Rd. (83.365 acres) from I-
     02     2 General Industrial (Miami Twp.) to M-3 Rural Manufacturing District.
3306 9-27-  Boundaries of “CC” City Center District expanded; requested by Exit 47
     05     Redevelopment Study Oversight Committee.
            Properties in and near West Carrollton Central Business District at Central
3332 3-27-  Ave. and Elm St. from M- 1 Business Park, M-2 Manufacturing and R-2 Single
     07     Family Residential to R-1 Single Family Residential and PUD Planned Unit
            Development District.
     7-13-  The block bordered by N. Smith Street, W. Pease Avenue, N. Walnut Street, and
3453 10     W. Main Street from R-4 Multiple-Family Residential to R-2 Single-Family
            Residential District.
     4-12-  The block bordered by S. Elm Street, Pierce Street, and the railroad tracks,
3476 11     including 128-134 S. Elm Street, 9-17 Pierce Street, and 43-51 Pierce Street,
            from M-1 Business Park to Planned Unit Development District PUD 06-1.
            Rezoning property located at 1450 S. Elm Street, being Parcel ID #K48 00416
3691 2-9-21 0032 and comprising 5.35 acres, from PUD Planned Unit Development to R-PUD
            Residential Planned Unit Development, and approving a preliminary R-PUD Plan
            to construct 70 senior independent-living dwelling units.
     10-26- Rezoning a portion of the OD Olde Downtown District to Planned Unit
3711 21     Development District PUD 06-1, and adopting related amendments to the
            development regulations for PUD 06-1.
3719 3-8-22 Rezoning 3 – 45 E. Main St.; 113 Locust St.; and 3 – 35 W. Main Street from
            OD Olde Downtown District to R-2 Single–Family Residential District.
 
 
TABLE X: HISTORICAL DISTRICTS
 
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
                       Establishing the area bounded by Cedar Street to the
                       east, Central Avenue to the south, the alley to the
Res. 23-80 10-14-80    north, and the side lot line between 113 and 121 East
                       Central Avenue to the west as a local historical
                       district.
 
 
TABLE XI: COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AREAS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
Res. 6-83  2-8-83      Part of lots 2294, 2288, 2289, and 3638 to be designated
                       as Community Reinvestment Area Number 2.
                       Index 25; consisting of lots 1055, 1057, 1059, 1061,
Res. 5-84  2-14-84     1063, 1065, 1067, 1069, 1071, 1073, PT1074, and 410l; to
                       be designated as Community Reinvestment Area Number 3.
                       Establishing and describing the boundaries of Community
Res. 8-86  8-12-86     Reinvestment Area Number 4, and designating a housing
                       officer to administer the program.
                       Establishing and describing the boundaries of Community
Res. 33-89 12-26-89    Reinvestment Area Number 5, and designating a housing
                       officer to administer the program.
                       Establishing and describing the boundaries of Community
Res. 26-90 8-14-90     Reinvestment Area Number 6, and designating a housing
                       officer to administer the program.
                       Establishing and describing the boundaries of a
Res. 19-91 5-28-91     Community Reinvestment Area and designating a housing
                       officer to administer the program.
Res. 32-91 8-13-91     Expanding the boundaries of Community Reinvestment Area
                       Number 6.
Res. 15-92 7-14-92     Expanding the boundaries of Community Reinvestment Area
                       Number 1.
Res. 26-94 7-12-94     Expanding the boundaries of Community Reinvestment Area
                       Number 1.
Res. 27-94 7-12-94     Expanding the boundaries of Community Reinvestment Area
                       Number 2.
                       Amending the requirements of Community Reinvestment Area
Res. 28-94 7-12-94     Number 4 by deleting Section 4 of Resolution 8-86,
                       passed August 12, 1986.
                       Amending Resolution 33-89, passed December 26, 1989,
Res. 29-94 7-12-94     concerning the directives for Community Reinvestment
                       Area Number 5.
                       Expanding the boundaries of Community Reinvestment Area
Res. 30-94 7-12-94     Number 6, and amending Resolution 26-90, passed August
                       14, 1990.
                       Expanding the boundaries of Community Reinvestment Area
Res. 31-94 7-12-94     Number 7, and amending Resolution 19-91, passed May 28,
                       1991.
                       Accepting the report of the Community Reinvestment Area
Res. 8-08  3-25-08     Housing Council (CRAHC) concerning the status of certain
                       properties currently receiving tax exemptions.
 
 
TABLE XII: CONTRACTS; AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
                       Authorizing the City Manager to enter an agreement with
                       the Miami Valley Cable Council on behalf of the city
                       along with other municipalities in developing and
2519       8-13-85     administering written examinations for use in testing
                       potential police officers and developing and
                       administering a physical fitness test for use in
                       recruitment.
                       Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement
Res. 11-85 9-24-85     with the City of Dayton to use the services of the
                       Dayton Board of Building Appeals.
                       Authorizing execution of an agreement with Gould Inc.
Ord. 2526  12-10-85    for financing for the acquisition of equipment for use
                       at an industrial facility within the boundaries of the
                       city to be owned by Gould Inc. or its nominee.
                       Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement
Res. 1-86  1-14-86     with the Board of County Commissioners of Montgomery
                       County for a Community Development Block Grant for the
                       west Central Avenue Redevelopment Project.
                       Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement
Res. 15-86 10-28-86    with the Board of County Commissioners of Montgomery
                       County for a Community Development Block Grant for the
                       West Central Avenue Redevelopment Project.
                       Authorizing City Manager to enter into contractual
Res. 25-87 10-13-87    agreement with Montgomery County for purpose of
                       administering the Community Development Block Grant
                       Program.
Res. 8-88  2-9-88      Approval of final plan entitled Dayton and Montgomery
                       County E-911 Implementation Plan (3rd Draft -12/22/87).
                       Authorizing City Manager to enter into a contract for
2694       12-27-88    the purchase of a parcel of real estate owned by the
                       Board of Education.
2701       2-14-89     Authorizing City Manager to enter into a contract for
                       the sale of a parcel of real estate owned by the city.
                       Authorizing City Manager to enter into a contract with
2703       4-11-89     the Industrial Commission of Ohio to create coverage for
                       Workers' compensation for supervised community service
                       work.
                       Authorizing City Manager to enter into an agreement with
2704       4-11-89     the Miamisburg municipal court to participate in a
                       community service work program.
                       Authorizing City Manager to enter an agreement with the
2715       7-11-89     West Carrollton's Mayor's court to participate in a
                       community service work program.
                       Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract
Res. 34-89 11-28-89    for electric lighting services for use on public grounds
                       and streets in the city, for a period of 48 months
                       commencing 1-1-90.
                       Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement
Res. 23-90 7-10-90     with Montgomery County to administer the Community
                       Development Block Grant Program.
                       Authorizing an agreement with the various municipal
Res. 35-90 11-27-90    corporations and townships for the formation of the
                       Miami Valley Emergency Management Authority.
                       Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement
2727       12-12-89    with the Northern Ohio Patrolmen's Benevolent
                       Association.
                       Authorizing West Carrollton's participation in the
Res. 15-91 5-28-91     Montgomery County Economic Development/ Government
                       Equity Program.
                       Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement
Res. 24-91 6-25-91     to provide a supplementary tap fee and protection for
                       Eskco, Inc. for installing and paying for a sanitary
                       sewer along the north side of Liberty Lane.
                       Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement
Res. 34-91 10-22-91    with the Dayton Power and Light Co. for placing utility
                       poles in the right-of-way of Infirmary Rd.
Res. 9-92  3-10-92     Authorizing the city's participation in the Montgomery
                       County Economic Development/ Government Equity Program.
                       Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement
2912-      -93         with the West Carrollton Independent Employees'
                       Association. (Repeals Ord. 2791, passed 2-12-91)
                       Adopting the City of West Carrollton Flexible Benefits
Res. 36-93 12-14-93    Plan, and authorizing the City Manager to sign a service
                       agreement with AFLAC.
                       Authorizing the city's participation in the Miami Valley
Res. 13-94 5-10-94     Risk Management Association's workers' compensation
                       group rating plan for 1995.
Res. 32-94 8-9-94      Authorizing the city to become a member of the Ohio
                       Benefits Cooperative, Inc.
                       Authorizing the City Manager to sign an agreement for
Res. 41-94 11-8-94     the city's participation in the Miami Valley Fire/EMS
                       Alliance.
                       Authorizing the city's participation in the Miami Valley
Res. 31-95 6-13-95     Risk Management Association's Worker's Compensation
                       Group Rating Plan for 1996.
                       Authorizing the signing of a settlement agreement with
Res. 17-96 5-28-96     the Cardington Road Landfill Coalition and Montgomery
                       County Board of County Commissioners.
                       Authorizing the city's participation in the Miami Valley
Res. 20-96 6-11-96     Risk Management Association's Worker's Compensation
                       Group Rating Plan for 1997.
                       Authorizing the City Manager to submit a project
Res. 26-96 8-13-96     application and execute a contract for obtaining a grant
                       from Issue 2 funds allocated to this area of the state
                       for infrastructure improvements on Alex Road.
                       Authorizing the City Manager to submit a project
                       application and execute a contract for obtaining a grant
Res. 27-96 8-13-96     from Issue 2 funds allocated to this area of the state
                       for infrastructure improvements to the State Route 725
                       water line.
                       Authorizing the City Manager to submit a project
                       application and execute a contract for obtaining a grant
Res. 28-96 8-13-96     from Issue 2 funds allocated to this area of the state
                       for infrastructure improvements to replace a water main
                       in the West Lowery area.
                       Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract for
Res. 29-96 8-27-96     obtaining a grant from the Miami Valley Regional Transit
                       Authority (RTA) Community Grant Program to landscape the
                       park-n-ride lot at 300 E. Central Avenue.
                       Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement
3026       9-24-96     with the Fraternal Order of Police, Ohio Labor Council,
                       Inc. representing police officers and dispatchers.
                       Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement
3035       11-12-96    with the West Carrollton Independent Employees'
                       Association representing the Service Department and
                       Parks and Recreation Department.
                       Authorizing the city's participation in the Miami Valley
Res. 21-97 5-27-97     Risk Management Association's Workers' Compensation
                       Group Rating Plan for 1998.
                       Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement
                       for street lighting services for use on public grounds
Res. 37-97 11-11-97    and streets in the city for a period of 60 months
                       commencing January 1, 1998, and expiring on December 31,
                       2002.
                       Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement
3739       12-13-22    with the West Carrollton Police Association representing
                       said employees.
                       Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement
3740       12-13-22    with the Fraternal Order of Police, Ohio Labor Council,
                       Inc. representing said employees.
                       Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement
3743       12-20-22    with the West Carrollton Independent Employees
                       Association representing said employees.
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Revised Code of Ohio
References to 1970 Code
References to Ordinances
References to Resolutions
REFERENCES TO REVISED CODE OF OHIO
Editor's note:
This table lists those Ohio Revised Code sections which have been substantially
duplicated by corresponding Code of Ordinance sections. All legislative history
references to “(R.C. § xx.xx or ORC xx.xx)” which appear at the end of sections
(or divisions of sections) in the city's Code of Ordinances have been listed
here. Example: to determine which section of the Code of Ordinances is based on
R.C. § 4511.19, scan down this table to the citation for “4511.19” and examine
the entry across from it: in this case, the corresponding Code of Ordinances
section is §
72.45, which means that §
72.45 (or a part thereof) is based directly on R.C. § 4511.19.
R.C. SEC. CODE SECTION
R.C. SEC.                              CODE SECTION
1.01                                   10.01
1.02                                   10.02 
1.05                                   10.02
1.14                                   10.03
1.15                                   10.03 
1.23                                   10.05 
1.42                                   10.03
1.44                                   10.02
1.50                                   10.07 
1.57                                   10.04 
1.58                                   10.04 
1.59                                   10.02 
128.01(A)                              136.11
128.96(F) - (H)                        136.11
128.99                                 136.11
701.01                                 10.02 
711.01 - 735.26                        154.98
713.01 - 713.05                        154.10
715.67                                 130.99
901.51                                 133.21 
Ch. 2506                               156.23
2901.01                                130.01
2901.02                                130.02 
2901.03                                130.03 
2901.04                                130.04 
2901.13                                130.05 
2901.21                                130.06 
2901.22                                130.07 
2901.23                                130.08 
2901.24                                130.09 
2903.05                                136.01
2903.06                                136.02
2903.08(A)(3), (C)(3), (D)(3), (E)-(G) 136.02
2903.13                                136.03
2903.14                                136.04 
2903.21                                136.05
2903.211                               136.051
2903.22                                136.06
2903.31                                136.15 
2903.311                               136.15
2905.03                                136.07 
2905.12                                136.09 
2907.01                                137.01 
2907.04                                137.02
2907.06                                137.03 
2907.08                                137.05 
2907.09                                137.06 
2907.23                                137.07 
2907.231                               137.07 
2907.24                                137.08 
2907.25                                137.09 
2907.31                                137.10
2907.311                               137.14 
2907.32                                137.11 
2907.33                                137.12 
2907.35                                137.13 
2909.03                                133.03 
2909.06                                133.04 
2909.07                                133.05
2909.10                                133.26
2909.101                               133.26
2911.21                                133.06 
2911.23                                133.25
2911.32                                133.18 
2913.01                                133.01 
2913.02                                133.07 
2913.03                                133.08 
2913.04                                133.09 
2913.11                                133.10 
2913.21                                133.11 
2913.33                                133.12
2913.41                                133.13 
2913.42                                133.14 
2913.43                                133.15 
2913.44                                131.07 
2913.45                                133.16 
2913.51                                133.17 
2913.61                                133.19 
2913.71                                133.20 
2915.01                                132.01 
2915.02                                132.02
2915.03                                132.03
2915.04                                132.04
2915.05                                132.05
2915.06                                132.15
2915.061                               132.15
2915.09                                132.06 
2915.091                               132.07
2915.092                               132.08
2915.093                               132.09
2915.094                               132.10
2915.11                                132.12
2915.12                                132.13
2915.13                                132.14
2915.14                                132.16
2917.03                                138.01 
2917.04                                138.02 
2917.11                                138.03 
2917.12                                138.04 
2917.13                                138.05 
2917.14                                138.09
2917.21                                136.10 
2917.211                               137.16
2917.31                                138.06 
2917.32                                138.07 
2919.22(A) - (E), (H)                  136.08
2919.24                                136.19
2921.01                                135.01 
2921.13                                135.02 
2921.14                                136.16 
2921.15                                131.10
2921.21                                131.01 
2921.22                                131.02 
2921.23                                131.03 
2921.29                                131.11
2921.31                                131.04 
2921.32                                131.05 
2921.321                               131.09
2921.33                                131.06 
2921.331                               70.05 
2921.42                                135.03 
2921.43                                135.04 
2921.44                                135.05 
2921.45                                135.06 
2921.51                                131.08
2923.02                                130.12 
2923.03                                130.13 
2925.11                                136.12 
2925.31                                136.13 
2925.37                                136.14
2927.02                                136.17
2927.11                                133.27
2927.17                                137.15
2929.21                                130.99
2929.22                                130.11
2929.23                                130.99
2929.24                                130.99
2929.25                                130.99
2929.26                                130.99
2929.27                                130.99
2929.28                                130.99 
2929.31                                130.14
2935.041                               133.23 
2935.28                                130.15 
2935.36                                130.10
2935.36(E)                             130.01
3701.82                                134.01
3701.99                                134.01
3735.65                                116.03
3735.66                                116.03
3735.67                                116.03
3735.69                                116.03
3767.29                                134.02
3780.36                                136.20
3780.99                                136.20
4301.01                                91.01
4301.22                                91.03
4301.62                                91.07
4301.63                                91.021
4301.633                               91.021
4301.634                               91.021
4301.637                               91.06
4301.638                               91.02
4301.64                                91.04
4301.69                                91.02
                                       91.02,
                                       91.021,
4301.99                                91.03,
                                       91.04,
                                       91.07
4303.25                                91.05
4501.01                                72.110,
                                       74.11
4503.11                                72.63,
                                       72.64
4503.111                               72.63,
                                       72.651
4503.12                                72.65
4503.21                                72.63
4505.18                                72.62
4506.01                                79.01
4506.03                                79.02
4506.04                                79.03
4506.12(I), (J)                        79.03
4506.15                                79.04
4506.20                                79.05
4507.02                                72.56
4507.05                                72.57
4507.071                               72.571
4507.213                               72.561
4507.30                                72.58
4507.35                                72.60
4507.99                                72.56
4509.102                               72.612
4510.037                               72.61
4510.07                                136.02
4510.11                                72.61
4510.111                               72.614
4510.14                                72.611
4510.16                                72.612
4510.161                               72.611
4510.21                                72.613
4511.01                                70.01
4511.03                                72.20
4511.031                               71.14
4511.04                                70.08 
4511.05                                70.09 
4511.051                               70.10 
4511.12                                71.05 
4511.121                               71.05
4511.13                                71.07
4511.131                               71.08
4511.132                               71.13
4511.14                                71.09
4511.16                                71.11
4511.17                                71.12
4511.181                               72.45
4511.19 (A) - (M)                      72.45
4511.20                                72.46
4511.201                               72.46
4511.202                               72.36(A)
4511.203                               72.59
4511.204                               72.52
4511.205                               72.572
4511.21                                72.47
4511.213                               72.291
4511.22                                72.48
4511.23                                72.49
4511.24                                72.50
4511.25                                72.01
4511.251                               72.51
4511.26                                72.02
4511.27                                72.03
4511.28                                72.04
4511.29                                72.05
4511.30                                72.06
4511.31                                72.07
4511.32                                72.32
4511.33                                72.08
4511.34                                72.09
4511.35                                72.33
4511.36                                72.10
4511.37                                72.12
4511.38                                72.13
4511.39                                72.14
4511.40                                72.15
4511.41                                72.16
4511.42                                72.17
4511.43(B), (C)                        72.18
4511.43(A), (C)                        72.19
4511.431                               72.23
4511.44                                72.22
4511.441                               74.07
4511.45                                72.21
4511.451                               72.24
4511.452                               74.08
4511.454                               72.211
4511.46                                74.01
4511.47                                74.02
4511.48                                74.03
4511.481                               74.09
4511.49                                74.04
4511.50                                74.05
4511.51                                74.06
4511.511                               74.10
4511.512                               74.11
4511.513                               74.12
4511.514                               74.13
4511.52                                74.15
4511.522                               74.28
4511.53                                74.16
4511.54                                74.17
4511.55                                74.18,
                                       74.21 
4511.56                                74.19,
                                       74.20
4511.60                                72.31
4511.61                                72.26
4511.62                                72.25
4511.65                                71.06 
4511.66                                73.12
4511.661                               73.07
4511.67                                73.01
4511.68                                73.03
4511.69                                73.04
4511.70                                72.27,
                                       73.08 
4511.701                               72.40
4511.71                                72.28 
4511.711                               72.38 
4511.712                               72.35 
4511.713                               72.38
4511.714                               72.44
4511.72                                72.29 
4511.73                                72.30 
4511.74                                71.01 
4511.75                                72.39,
                                       72.391
4511.772                               72.941 
4511.79                                72.111
4511.81                                72.42 
4511.83                                72.43 
4511.84                                72.943 
                                       70.99,
                                       71.01,
                                       71.08,
4511.99                                71.09,
                                       72.36(C),
                                       72.43(D),
                                       72.941
4511.991                               70.99
4513.02                                72.70
4513.021                               72.70
4513.03                                72.71 
4513.04                                72.72 
4513.05                                72.73 
4513.06                                72.74 
4513.07                                72.75 
4513.071                               72.93 
4513.08                                72.76 
4513.09                                72.77 
4513.10                                72.78
4513.11                                72.79
4513.111                               72.79
4513.112                               72.79
4513.113                               72.79
4513.114                               72.79
4513.115                               72.79
4513.12                                72.80
4513.13                                72.81
4513.14                                72.82
4513.15                                72.83
4513.16                                72.84
4513.17                                72.85
4513.171                               72.85 
4513.19                                72.86 
4513.20                                72.87 
4513.21                                72.88 
4513.22                                72.89 
4513.23                                72.90 
4513.24                                72.91 
4513.241                               72.945
4513.261                               72.944
4513.263                               72.942 
4513.28                                72.106 
4513.29                                72.100 
4513.30                                72.92
4513.31                                72.103
4513.32                                72.101
4513.33                                72.105
4513.36                                70.065
4513.361                               135.07
4513.64                                70.13
4513.99                                72.87,
                                       135.07 
4519.01                                70.01
4519.44                                72.120
4549.02                                72.66
4549.021                               72.67 
4549.03                                72.68 
4549.05                                70.07 
4549.08                                72.65 
4549.081(B)                            71.05
4549.11                                72.63,
                                       72.64
4549.12                                72.63,
                                       72.64
4999.02                                75.02 
5577.05                                72.97 
5577.11                                72.99 
5577.99                                72.97
5589.08                                72.104
                                       
 
REFERENCES TO 1970 CODE
1970 CODE SEC. 1977 CODE SEC.
1970 CODE SEC. 1977 CODE SEC.
101.01         10.01 
101.02         10.02 
101.03         10.03 
101.04         10.04 
101.05         10.05 
101.06         10.06 
101.07         10.07 
101.99         10.99 
105.01         30.01
105.02         30.02 
105.03         30.03 
105.04         30.04 
105.05         30.05 
105.06         30.06 
105.07         30.07 
121.01         31.01 
121.02         31.02 
123.01         31.05 
123.02         31.06 
123.03         31.07 
131.01         32.01 
131.02         32.02 
131.03         32.03 
131.04         32.04 
131.05         32.05 
131.06         32.06 
133.01         32.10 
133.02         32.11 
133.03         32.12 
133.04         32.13 
133.05         32.14 
133.06         32.15 
135.01         33.01 
135.02         33.02 
135.03         33.03 
135.04         33.04 
135.05         33.05 
135.06         33.06 
135.07         33.07 
135.08         33.08 
137.01         33.10 
137.02         33.11 
137.03         33.12
137.04         33.13 
137.05         33.14 
137.06         33.15 
137.07         33.16 
137.08         33.17 
139.01         33.20 
139.02         33.22 
139.03         33.23 
139.06         33.26 
139.07         33.27 
141.01         33.09 
141.02         33.31 
141.03         33.32 
145.01         33.35
153.02         34.02 
153.03         34.03 
153.04         34.04 
153.05         34.05 
153.06         34.06 
153.07         34.07 
153.08         34.08 
153.09         34.09 
153.10         34.10 
153.11         34.11 
153.12         34.12 
153.13         34.13 
153.14         34.14 
153.15         34.15 
155.01         34.20 
521.01         75.01 
521.02         75.02 
521.03         75.03 
523.01         90.01 
523.02         90.02 
523.03         90.03 
523.04         90.04 
523.05         90.05 
523.06         90.06 
523.07         90.07 
523.08         90.08 
523.09         90.09 
523.10         90.10 
523.11         90.11 
525.01         91.01 
525.02         91.02 
525.03         91.03 
525.04         91.04 
525.05         91.05 
525.06         91.06 
525.07         91.07 
525.10         91.99 
715.01         110.01 
725.01         112.01 
725.02         112.02 
725.03         112.03 
725.04         112.04 
725.05         112.05 
725.06         112.06 
725.07         112.07 
725.08         112.08 
725.09         112.09 
725.10         112.10 
725.99         112.99 
903.01         92.01 
903.02         92.02 
903.04         92.04 
903.05         92.05 
903.06         92.06 
903.07         92.07 
903.08         92.08 
903.09         92.09 
903.10         92.10 
903.11         92.11 
903.12         92.12 
903.13         92.13 
903.14         92.14 
903.15         92.15 
903.16         92.16 
903.17         92.17 
903.18         92.18 
903.99         92.99 
915.01         52.01 
915.02         52.02 
915.03         52.03 
915.04         52.04 
915.99         52.99 
931.01         53.01 
931.021        53.02 
931.03         53.03 
931.04         53.04 
931.06         53.06 
931.07         53.08 
931.99         53.99 
933.02         93.02
933.03         93.03
933.04         93.04
1301.01        150.01 
1301.02        150.02 
1301.03        150.03 
1301.04        150.04 
1305.01        150.05 
1305.02        150.06 
1311.01        150.10 
1311.02        150.11 
1311.03        150.12 
1311.04        150.13 
1311.05        150.14 
1311.06        150.15 
1313.01        150.20 
1313.02        150.21 
1313.03        150.22 
1313.04        150.23 
1313.05        150.24 
1313.06        150.25 
1313.07        150.26 
1313.08        150.27 
1313.09        150.28 
1313.10        150.29 
1313.11        150.30 
1313.12        150.31 
1313.13        150.32 
1315.01        150.35
1315.02        150.36
1315.03        150.37
1315.04        150.38
1315.05        150.39
1315.99        150.99
1317.01        150.40 
1317.02        150.41 
1317.03        150.42 
1317.04        150.43 
1317.05        150.44 
1317.06        150.45 
1317.07        150.46 
1317.08        150.47 
1317.09        150.48 
1317.10        150.49 
1317.11        150.50 
1317.12        150.51 
1317.13        150.52 
1317.14        150.53 
1317.15        150.54 
1317.16        150.55 
1317.17        150.56 
1317.18        150.57 
1317.19        150.58 
1319.01        150.60
1319.02        150.61
1319.04        150.63
1319.05        150.64
1319.07        150.66
1319.08        150.67
1319.09        150.68
1321.01        150.70
1323.06        150.80
               
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
ORD. NO. DATE PASSED CODE SECTION
ORD. NO. DATE PASSED CODE SECTION
977      5-26-59     152.01 
1186     4-23-63     154.172
                     75.04,
1664     5-11-70     75.05,
                     75.99
1707     11-23-71    33.45 -
                     33.50 
1742     8-31-72     150.62
1743     8-31-72     150.65
1746     5-22-72     72.41
1763     1-23-73     150.40,
                     150.55
1765     2-13-73     34.21
1777     4-10-73     33.40
1790     6-12-73     34.21
                     50.01,
                     50.04,
1803     8-28-73     50.06 -
                     50.27,
                     50.99 
                     51.01 -
1805     9-25-73     51.16,
                     51.99
                     50.01,
                     50.04,
1809     10-9-73     50.06 -
                     50.27,
                     50.99
1812     11-13-73    51.17
1826     2-26-74     113.01 -
                     113.99
1831     3-12-74     95.01,
                     95.02
                     130.02,
                     130.03,
                     130.09 -
                     130.11,
                     130.13,
                     130.14,
                     131.01,
                     131.03,
                     131.06,
                     131.07,
                     133.02,
                     133.04,
                     133.09,
                     133.12,
1839     4-23-74     133.18,
                     133.20 -
                     133.22,
                     134.01 -
                     134.09,
                     135.01,
                     135.04,
                     135.06,
                     136.01, ,
                     137.03,
                     137.09,
                     137.11,
                     137.12,
                     138.01,
                     138.04
1843     5-14-74     91.08
1880     1-14-75     154.01 - 154.199
                     114.01 -
                     114.68,
1907     5-27-75     114.70,
                     114.71,
                     114.75 -
                     114.96
1909     5-27-75     150.07
1940     12-11-75    92.20,
                     92.99
1959     3-23-76     92.19, 154.01
1969     5-11-76     154.28
1970     5-11-76     154.181
1971     5-25-76     72.102,
                     72.103 
                     154.68, 154.89, 154.101, 154.110, 154.111, 154.120,
1981     7-13-76     154.121, 154.130, 154.131, 154.140, 154.141, 154.150,
                     154.151, 154.181
1984     9-14-76     154.181
1986     10-26-76    50.03,
                     50.05
1990     11-23-76    154.182
1996     2-10-77     154.179
2033     7-26-77     74.26
2034     7-26-77     91.08
2049     10-11-77    T.S.O. III
2051     11-22-77    34.35 -
                     34.41
2052     11-22-77    34.42
2054     12-14-77    150.01
                     95.10 -
2056     1-24-78     95.21,
                     95.99
2059     2-14-78     T.S.O. I
2060     2-14-78     154.28
2061     2-28-78     T.S.O. IX
2079     4-25-78     72.25
2080     4-25-78     73.05,
                     73.13
2081     5-9-78      T.S.O. V
2082     5-9-78      T.S.O. III
2097     9-26-78     154.101, 154.181, 154.184
2098     9-26-78     T.S.O. IX
2099     9-26-78     T.S.O. IX
2101     11-14-78    T.S.O. V
2116     2-27-79     50.03
2121     3-27-79     50.03
2122     4-10-79     50.03
2124     5-8-79      T.S.O. III
                     72.39,
2125     5-8-79      72.391 
                     72.392
2126     5-8-79      31.05
2131     5-22-79     T.S.O. IX
2132     5-22-79     154.42
2134     6-12-79     51.12
2140     6-26-79     51.99
2145     7-10-79     152.01
                     33.01,
2154     8-28-79     33.22,
                     33.23
2156     9-11-79     155.01 -
                     155.99
2160     9-25-79     90.02,
                     90.08
2162     10-9-79     154.39, 154.181
2170     12-11-79    150.60 -
                     150.69
2186     2-26-80     70.99 (A)(4)
2191     3-11-80     T.S.O. IX
2193     2-26-80     34.06
2194     3-11-80     150.01 -
                     150.09
2200     4-22-80     T.S.O. VII
2201     4-8-80      72.97
2202     4-22-80     T.S.O. VII
2206     4-22-80     T.S.O. VI
2209     6-10-80     51.11
2212     6-25-80     154.29
2214     7-22-80     150.85,
                     150.86
2216     8-26-80     154.69
2217     8-26-80     T.S.O. VII
                     Charter
                     1.01,
                     3.02,
                     4.13,
                     4.16,
2219     8-26-80     5.02,
                     5.03,
                     7.10, 9.05,
                     10.01,
                     10.02,
                     10.05, 12.06
2221     9-9-80      T.S.O. VII
2224     9-23-80     T.S.O. V
2225     10-14-80    T.S.O. IX
2227     11-11-80    Ch. 151
2231     12-23-80    T.S.O. VII
2232     1-22-81     T.S.O. VII
2233     12-23-80    Ch. 54
2237     1-13-81     150.01
2242     6-23-81     T.S.O. VIII
2245     3-10-81     50.28
2246     3-10-81     50.07
2247     3-10-81     51.02,
                     51.03
2252     3-10-81     10.08,
                     50.07
2256     4-28-81     154.38
2257     4-28-81     T.S.O. IX
2258     4-28-81     T.S.O. IX
2261     6-9-81      72.55
2262     6-9-81      74.26
2266     6-9-81      74.27
2267     6-9-81      74.16
2269     6-23-81     34.38
2271     7-28-81     154.49, 154.181
2272     7-28-81     Ch. 53
2274     8-11-81     150.01,
                     150.05
2278     8-25-81     Ch. 156
                     30.01 -
                     30.07, -
                     31.02,
                     32.01 -
                     32.06,
                     32.10 -
                     32.15,
                     33.01 -
                     33.17,
                     33.20 -
                     33.23,
2291     10-27-81    33.26,
                     33.27,
                     33.30 -
                     33.32,
                     33.40 -
                     33.41,
                     33.70 -
                      33.71,
                     33.80 -
                     33.81,
                     34.20,
                     34.21
2293     11-10-81    70.99
                     34.02 -
                     34.15,
2297     12-22-81    34.20,
                     34.21,
                     34.32
2298     11-22-81    T.S.O. IX
2305     1-26-82     T.S.O. IX
2306     2-23-82     154.02 - 154.99
2308     2-23-82     50.03
2314     4-13-82     T.S.O. V
2315     3-23-82     156.31
2318     6-8-82      Ch. 115
2327     7-13-82     154.17-1 - 154.26-1, 154.17-2 - 154.26-2
2330     7-13-82     T.S.O. IX
2332     6-22-82     134.06
2334     6-22-82     T.S.O. V
2335     7-13-82     T.S.O. IX
                     91.01,
2345     9-14-82     91.02,
                     91.06, 81.07,
                     91.99
2349     10-12-82    51.11
2353     12-14-82    73.04
2354     12-14-82    50.16,
                     50.30
2357     5-10-83     Ch. 89
2360     1-25-83     152.01
2362     2-8-83      Ch. 110
                     132.06,
                     133.07,
2364     2-8-83      133.10,
                     133.11,
                     133.17,
                     133.19
2368     4-26-83     T.S.O. IX
2369     4-12-83     154.81, 154.82, 154.83, 154.87
2370     4-12-83     154.77-1 - 154.85-1
2371     4-12-83     T.S.O. IX
                     70.99,
2376     4-12-83     72.36,
                     72.46
2393     7-12-83     51.02,
                     51.03
2397     7-12-83     154.180
2399     8-9-83      154.184
2404     8-23-83     Adopting Ordinance
2407     8-9-83      Ch. 76
2408     9-13-83     154.181
2409     9-13-83     154.181
2410     9-27-83     154.12
2415     11-22-83    154.48
2416     6-26-84     154.179
2422     1-24-84     T.S.O. IX
2423     1-10-84     154.85-1
2424     1-10-84     154.80
2426     1-10-84     150.07
2429     3-27-84     32.125
2432     4-10-84     T.S.O. V
2436     4-24-84     Ch. 141
2439     5-8-84      T.S.O. II
2445     6-26-84     T.S.O. IX
2446     7-10-84     154.69, 154.131, 154.141, 154.151, 154.181
2447     7-10-84     T.S.O. IX
2448     7-10-84     T.S.O. IX
2451     7-10-84     150.03(G),
                     150.03(H)
2452     8-14-84     154.18-1 - 154.22-3, 154.179, 154.181
2453     8-14-84     154.12(B)
2454     8-28-84     150.80
2460     9-4-84      90.12
2463     9-11-84     34.04
2465     9-11-84     Ch. 96
2466     9-24-84     Ch. 56
2468     10-9-84     Adopting Ordinance
2469     10-23-84    56.04(B)(2)
2471     11-27-84    T.S.O. IX
2476     11-27-84    134.08(C)
2477     11-27-84    71.01
2478     12-11-84    T.S.O. V
2480     12-26-84    T.S.O. V
2491     2-26-85     154.99
2496     4-23-85     T.S.O. III
2506     5-14-85     Ch. 151
2508     6-11-85     T.S.O. IX
2509     6-11-85     150.01 - 150.045,
                     150.07
2510     6-25-85     53.03
2515     7-9-85      T.S.O. IX
2516     7-23-85     Ch. 111
2518     7-23-85     T.S.O. III
2519     8-13-85     T.S.O. XII
2520     8-27-85     150.69.1
2522     8-27-85     154.04
2526     12-10-85    T.S.O. XII
2546     5-27-86     150.07
2547     5-27-86     150.05
2555     8-12-86     150.025
2557     9-9-86      154.01
                     70.99(A),
                     71.07,
                     71.09,
                     72.39,
                     72.40,
                     72.63,
2558     8-26-86     72.941,
                     72.942,
                     72.97, 89.11,
                     91.07,
                     130.01,
                     133.07,
                     134.01
2564     12-23-86    T.S.O. I
2573     1-13-87     32.10,
                     32.11
                     114.01,
2574     1-13-87     114.08,
                     114.94 -
                     114.97
2578     2-24-87     Adopting Ordinance
2579     3-10-87     T.S.O. IX
2580     2-24-87     150.01
2581     3-10-87     51.19 -
                     51.23
                     156.01 -
2582     3-24-87     156.32,
                     156.99
2586     4-14-87     T.S.O. XII
2587     4-28-87     34.21
2589     5-26-87     156.33 -
                     156.40, Appendix
2596     6-23-87     T.S.O. V
2597     6-23-87     T.S.O. V
2598     7-14-87     T.S.O. IV
2602     7-28-87     T.S.O. VII
2609     8-11-87     93.02,
                     93.99
2610     8-11-87     93.05
                     110.02,
2613     8-25-87     110.03,
                     110.99
2614     8-25-87     93.05
2615     9-8-87      72.47
2620     11-10-87    154.29, 154.181
2623     12-8-87     Ch. 142
2624     4-26-88     Adopting Ordinance
                     34.21 -
                     34.31,
2627     12-22-87    34.33,
                     34.34,
                     34.342
2639     1-26-88     154.01, 154.184
2640     1-26-88     70.01,
                     73.12
2641     1-12-88     154.80-1, 154.82-1, 154.85-1
2651     7-12-88     154.01, 154.19-1, 154.19-2, 154.181
2652     4-12-88     T.S.O. IX
2653     3-22-88     T.S.O. V
2655     5-10-88     T.S.O. III
2658     5-24-88     51.02,
                     51.03
2659     5-24-88     Ch. 77
2660     5-10-88     T.S.O. V
2670     9-27-88     154.159-1 - 154.168-1
2671     9-27-88     154.26-1
2672     9-27-88     T.S.O. IX
2674     9-27-88     157.01
2675     10-11-88    50.01
2677     10-25-88    72.102
                     34.215,
                     34.22 -
2684     12-27-88    34.31,
                     34.33,
                     34.34,
                     34.342
2691     12-27-88    93.01
2692     1-10-89     150.70,
                     150.80
2693     1-10-89     33.18
2694     12-27-88    T.S.O. XII
2695     6-13-89     154.01, 154.178-1, - 154.178-5
2696     1-24-89     150.01 -
                     150.99
2700     2-14-89     32.07
2701     2-14-89     T.S.O. XII
2702     2-28-89     154.184
2703     4-11-89     T.S.O. XII
2704     4-11-89     T.S.O. XII
2713     6-19-89     73.14
2715     7-11-89     T.S.O. XII
2716     7-25-89     Charter, § 4.14
2722     1-23-90     T.S.O. IX
2725     12-26-89    Ch. 158
2726     11-14-89    Adopting Ordinance
2727     12-12-89    T.S.O. XII
2739     2-13-90     154.182
2742     3-13-90     150.01
2743     3-13-90     150.025
2745     2-11-92     T.S.O. IX
2747     3-27-90     158.04
2748     4-24-90     53.01,
                     53.10
2749     4-24-90     Adopting Ordinance
2750     5-8-90      T.S.O. V
2758     7-10-90     154.18-1, 154.20-1, 154.21-1
2759     7-10-90     150.69.1
2760     7-10-90     154.179, 154.183
2761     6-26-90     156.23,
                     156.39
2763     7-24-90     31.05
2766     9-11-90     154.12
2768     1-22-91     154.184
2769     10-23-90    154.01, 154.179
2786     2-12-91     T.S.O. IX
2788     2-26-91     10.09
2794     4-23-91     Ch. 56
2795     4-9-91      93.02
2798     4-14-91     50.07
2801     5-14-91     T.S.O. V
2802     5-28-91     Ch. 55
2803     5-28-91     157.01
2804     5-28-91     10.08
2810     7-23-91     154.01, 154.179, 154.180
2812     7-23-91     T.S.O. V
2813     7-23-91     T.S.O. II
2814     7-23-91     T.S.O. II
2816     8-13-91     154.12
2817     9-10-91     T.S.O. III
2822     9-10-91     Adopting Ordinance
2825     10-8-91     70.03
2829     11-26-91    31.05
2833     12-30-91    154.98
2847     1-28-92     32.10
2848     2-11-92     T.S.O. V
2850     2-25-92     50.03
2853     3-24-92     158.03
2854     4-14-92     154.01, 154.38, 154.39, 154.48, 154.181, 154.184
2856     4-14-92     34.343
2864     9-8-92      T.S.O. III
2865     9-8-92      T.S.O. III
2866     11-24-92    T.S.O. IX
2867     10-27-92    T.S.O. IX
2875     9-22-92     156.39
2876     9-22-92     157.01
2877     10-27-92    T.S.O. III
2879     11-24-92    50.03
                     150.60, 150.60.1,
2890     2-9-93      150.61 -
                     150.63, 150.63.1,
                     150.64
2891     2-1-93      T.S.O. II
2893     4-27-93     Adopting Ordinance
2894     3-9-93      34.343
2908     10-5-93     152.01
                     154.01, 154.19-1.1, 154.19-2.1, 154.29.1, 154.39.1,
                     154.49.1, 154.59.1, 154.69.1, 154.79.1, 154.80-1,
2909     10-5-93     154.90.1, 154.101.1, 154.111.1, 154.121.1, 154.131.1,
                     154.141.1, 154.151.1, 154.161.1, 154.161-1.1, 154.171.1,
                     154.179, 154.184
2910     10-5-93     31.05
2911     11-9-93     T.S.O. V
2912     - -93       T.S.O. XII
                     34.215,
                     34.22 -
2913     12-28-93    34.31,
                     34.33,
                     34.34,
                     34.342
2923     1-25-94     92.03
2924     1-25-94     150.01 -
                     150.09
2927     2-8-94      117.01 -
                     117.10, 117.99
2929     3-8-94      53.10
2938     4-26-94     110.01,
                     110.02
                     158.01 -
2939     4-26-94     158.05,
                     158.99
2940     4-26-94     154.13
2943     5-24-94     154.01, 154.39, 154.181
2947     7-12-94     93.02
2951     7-12-94     T.S.O. V
2952     9-27-94     150.60.1
2953     9-13-94     158.03
2954     9-13-94     89.12
2955     9-27-94     34.26,
                     34.28
2956     9-27-94     Adopting Ordinance
2957     10-25-94    139.01
2958     10-11-94    T.S.O. V
2960     10-25-94    72.42
2961     11-22-94    154.01, 154.179
2962     11-22-94    154.08, 154.13, 154.14
2964     11-22-94    50.02
2973     4-11-95     32.25 -
                     32.39
2980     5-9-95      70.99
2982     7-11-95     150.70 - 150.81,
                     150.99
2983     6-27-95     Ch. 158
                     Charter
                     6.02, 9.01,
2986     7-25-95     10.01,
                     10.02, 11.01,
                     11.04
2989     10-24-95    T.S.O. IX
2990     9-26-95     T.S.O. IV
2993     11-14-95    Adopting Ordinance
                     34.215,
                     34.22 -
3002     12-12-95    34.31,
                     34.33,
                     34.34,
                     34.342
3010     4-9-96      T.S.O. IX
3017     7-9-96      154.39, 154.181
3021     7-23-96     T.S.O. IX
3024     9-10-96     Adopting Ordinance
3026     9-24-96     T.S.O. XII
3028     9-24-96     150.01,
                     150.03
3030     10-22-96    154.67 - 154.76
3031     10-22-96    154.184
3032     10-22-96    154.90, 154.181
3034     11-26-96    Ch. 94
3035     11-12-96    T.S.O. XII
                     34.215 -
                     34.31,
3038     12-30-96    34.33,
                     34.34,
                     34.342
3045     1-14-97     34.215,
                     34.22
3047     3-11-97     154.68, 154.89, 154.100, 154.110, 154.120, 154.130,
                     154.140, 154.150, 154.170, 154.179, 154.181
3049     3-11-97     157.01
3057     6-24-97     34.344
3059     7-22-97     Ch. 151
                     154.01, 154.39, 154.49, 154.59, 154.69, 154.79, 154.79-1,
3063     9-23-97     154.90, 154.101, 154.111, 154.121, 154.131, 154.141,
                     154.151, 154.161, 154.161-1, 154.171, 154.179, 154.181,
                     154.186
                     34.215 -
3069     12-30-97    34.31,
                     34.33 -
                     34.342
3079     1-27-98     154.98, 154.178-5
3082     2-24-98     154.01, 154.26-2, 154.36, 154.184, 154.185
3083     2-10-98     150.01 -
                     150.09
3084     2-10-98     Ch. 158
3085     2-24-98     33.19
3089     3-10-98     150.03
3091     4-28-98     158.03
3092     6-9-98      154.01
3105     11-10-98    154.36.1 to 154.36.8
3121     12-22-98    156.01 to
                     156.99
3122     1-26-99     90.07
3124     2-9-99      154.179
3125     2-9-99      154.180
3127     2-9-99      150.01
                     154.89, 154.90, 154.100, 154.101, 154.110, 154.111,
3130     5-25-99     154.120, 154.121, 154.130, 154.131, 154.140, 154.141,
                     154.150, 154.151, 154.181
3131     6-8-99      154.181
3132     6-8-99      154.12, 154.181
3133     6-8-99      154.29
3135     6-22-99     154.179
3144     10-26-99    72.107
                     34.215 to
                     34.31,
3147     12-28-99    34.33,
                     34.34,
                     34.342
3166     8-8-00      97.01 to
                     97.06, 97.99
3169     11-28-00    150.01 to
                     150.09
3170     3-13-01     154.184
3171     12-28-00    94.01 to
                     94.27
3174     12-28-00    34.215 to
                     34.342
3182     3-13-01     34.255
3184     4-24-01     158.01 to
                     158.99
3188     7-24-01     33.19
3191     10-23-01    33.47
3192     11-27-01    150.87 to 150.93
3193     12-11-01    150.01 to
                     150.09
3194     12-11-01    Repeals
                     31.05
                     34.215 to
                     34.31,
3197     12-27-01    34.33,
                     34.34,
                     34.342
3206     2-26-02     50.02
3210     5-14-02     90.01
3211     5-14-02     90.06
3217     8-27-02     34.24
                     34.215 to
                     34.31,
3229     12-30-02    34.33,
                     34.34,
                     34.35
                     53.01,
                     53.02,
3237     2-11-03     53.06,
                     53.11 to
                     53.13
3242     5-27-03     115.01,
                     115.99
3245     6-24-03     72.45
3248     9-9-03      154.02.01 to
                     154.16.09
3251     11-11-03    94.01 to
                     94.27
3254     12-30-03    34.215 to
                     34.342
3261     2-10-04     156.01 to
                     156.99
3262     2-24-04     92.03
3268     5-11-04     98.01
3274     7-13-04     154.16.01
3277     7-27-04     93.01
3280     10-26-04    156.01 to 156.06
                     34.22 to
                     34.25,
                     34.26 to
3284     12-28-04    34.31,
                     34.33,
                     34.34,
                     34.342
3288     2-8-05      150.01 to
                     150.09
3289     2-8-05      158.01 to
                     158.99
3298     6-14-05     154.10.471 to
                     154.10.477
3300     6-14-05     50.02
3301     6-14-05     50.03
                     154.10.003,
3309     11-8-05     154.10.622,
                     154.10.652
                     53.01,
3310     11-22-05    53.09,
                     53.10
                     34.22 to
                     34.25,
                     34.26 to
3314     12-27-05    34.31,
                     34.33,
                     34.34,
                     34.342
                     93.04,
3324     4-11-06     93.05, 150.80,
                     150.81,
                     158.02
                     150.025,
                     150.04,
3329     5-23-06     150.06,
                     150.09,
                     150.71
3331     11-28-06    158.06
                     34.22,
                     34.23,
                     34.28 to
3336     12-26-06    34.31,
                     34.33,
                     34.34,
                     34.342
3345     5-22-07     150.07
3346     7-10-07     150.05,
                     150.06, 150.61
3347     7-10-07     157.01
3348     7-10-07     10.08
3349     8-14-07     51.11
3350     8-14-07     50.12
3351     8-14-07     157.01
3352     8-14-07     156.39(B)
3353     8-14-07     50.07
3354     8-14-07     51.02
3355     8-14-07     51.03
                     118.01 to
3358     11-13-07    118.12,
                     118.99
3382     4-8-08      50.03
3384     4-22-08     154.10.476(A)(5)
3386     5-27-08     33.19
3387     7-8-08      72.130 to
                     72.133
3389     8-26-08     36.01 to
                     36.13
3400     12-9-08     154.10.473
3401     12-23-08    38.01 to 38.29
3402     12-23-08    Ch. 38 Fee Schedule
3404     1-27-09     150.69.1
3415     2-10-09     94.27
3418     4-28-09     159.01
                     154.10.093,
                     154.10.113,
                     154.10.134,
                     154.10.312,
                     154.10.362,
3419     4-28-09     154.10.412,
                     154.10.433,
                     154.10.463,
                     154.10.478,
                     154.10.613,
                     154.10.663,
                     154.17.01
3421     5-26-09     Repeals 93.01 to 93.05, 93.99, 150.75 to 150.81, 150.86 to
                     150.92
3422     6-9-09      72.130(c), (d)
3426     8-25-09     159.02
3434     12-22-09    Repeals
                     Chapter 38
3435     12-22-09    37.01 to
                     37.34
                     10.08,
                     10.99,
                     50.02,
                     50.03,
                     50.07,
                     50.12,
                     50.28,
                     50.99,
                     51.02,
                     51.03,
                     51.11,
                     53.09,
3436     12-22-09    53.10,
                     53.12,
                     56.04,
                     70.13, 89.04,
                     92.03,
                     98.01,
                     110.02,
                     112.06,
                     115.99,
                     150.05 to
                     150.07,
                     150.25, 150.61,
                     156.39(B),
                     157.01
3437     12-22-09    Chapter 37 Ed. Note
3438     1-26-10     154.10.629
3441     1-26-10     154.04.01(F)
3443     2-23-10     Chapter 37 Ed. Note,
                     37.03
3445     3-9-10      Chapter 37 Ed. Note,
                     37.14
3449     5-11-10     154.16.10
                     154.05.03(E),
3452     7-13-10     154.05.06(C)(1),
                     154.05.08(D), (E)
3459     11-9-10     154.02.01,
                     154.11.02, repeals 150.60 to 150.69.1
3460     11-9-10     154.16.08
3466     12-14-10    94.02(A)(1),
                     94.05(G)
3474     2-22-11     37.01 to
                     37.34
                     37.35,
                     154.10.352(N),
                     154.10.402(S),
                     154.10.422(H)(H),
                     154.10.452(S),
                     154.10.473(A)(36),
3475     4-12-11     154.10.602(Q),
                     154.10.622(R),
                     154.10.652(R), repeals
                     154.02.01,
                     154.10.453(D),
                     154.10.623(G),
                     154.10.653(H),
                     154.16.08(J)
                     154.10.133(M),
3477     4-12-11     154.10.479,
                     154.14.01(G)
3481     7-12-11     37.35
3495     12-27-11    72.130(C), (D)
                     143.01 to
3500     1-10-12     143.05,
                     143.99
                     37.01 to
3504     2-14-12     37.03,
                     37.08 to
                     37.35
3510     5-22-12     33.19(a)
3511     6-12-12     T.S.O. VII
3516     10-23-12    154.05.03(C)
                     94.02,
3523     1-22-13     94.04,
                     94.19,
                     94.27
3524     3-12-13     37.01 to
                     37.35
3525     3-12-13     Chap. 37, Editor’s Note
3528     6-25-13     154.14.01
3533     10-8-13     90.01 to
                     90.18; Repeals Ch. 89
3540     12-10-13    33.19
                     151.01,
3542     1-14-14     151.02,
                     151.99
3544     2-25-14     37.01 to
                     37.35
3546     7-8-14      91.08
3557     2-25-15     37.01 to
                     37.35
3562     6-9-15      90.01 to
                     90.03
                     154.02.01,
                     154.10.402(o), (r),
                     154.10.422(DD), (HH),
3567     8-25-15     154.10.423(I),
                     154.10.452(P), (R),
                     154.10.473(A),
                     154.16.12
                     94.5.01 to
                     94.5.20,
3572     11-24-15    94.5.201,
                     94.5.97 to
                     94.5.99
3576     3-8-16      37.36
3577     3-9-16      37.01 to
                     37.35
3581     3-22-16     37.29(A)(1)
                     154.02.01 ,
3582     4-12-16     154.10.423 ,
                     154.16.13
                     53.01 to
3587     6-28-16     53.13,
                     53.99
                     154.02.01,
3591     10-11-16    154.10.423,
                     154.10.603
                     154.02.01,
                     154.10.003,
                     154.10.422,
3592     10-11-16    154.10.423,
                     154.10.602,
                     154.10.603,
                     154.10.622,
                     154.10.652
3596     12-13-16    37.36
3602     1-24-17     94.19,
                     94.27, 194.5.05
3603     2-28-17     37.01 to
                     37.37
                     154.10.607,
3615     9-12-17     154.10.627,
                     154.10.657
3616     9-12-17     154.17.01,
                     154.10.633
                     119.01,
3617     10-24-17    119.02,
                     119.99
                     37.01 to
3628     2-27-18     37.34,
                     37.36,
                     37.37
3629     2-27-18     94.6 to 94.6.99
3630     3-27-18     117.01 to
                     117.10
3631     4-10-18     37.38
                     37.39,
                     97.05,
3636     7-10-18     99.01 to
                      99.13,
                     99.99
3638     10-23-18    159.01
                     37.01,
                     37.02,
                     37.03,
                     37.04,
                     37.05,
                     37.06,
                     37.07,
                     37.08,
                     37.09,
                     37.10,
                     37.11,
                     37.12,
                     37.13,
                     37.14,
                     37.18,
                     37.19,
3642     2-26-19     37.20,
                     37.22,
                     37.24,
                     37.25,
                     37.251,
                     37.26,
                     37.27,
                     37.28,
                     37.29,
                     37.30,
                     37.31,
                     37.32,
                     37.33,
                     37.34,
                     37.36,
                     37.37,
                     37.38,
                     37.39
                     33.70,
                     33.72,
3643     3-12-19     33.73,
                     33.74, Repeals
                     33.24,
                     33.25
                     58.01 to
3644     3-12-19     58.14,
                     58.99
                     90.01,
                     90.061,
3655     10-22-19    90.07,
                     90.19,
                     90.20
3658     - -         T.S.O. V
3666     2-25-20     Repeals 139.01 to 139.07, 139.10, 139.11, 139.13
                     37.01 to
                     37.14,
                     37.18 to
                     37.20,
3667     2-25-20     37.22,
                     37.24 to
                     37.34,
                     37.36 to
                     37.39
3670     7-14-20     138.08
                     37.36,
                     158.01 to
3673     8-11-20     158.54,
                     158.97 to
                     158.99
                     37.40,
3674     8-11-20     160.01 to
                     160.27
                     154.02.01,
                     154.04.01,
                     154.05.03,
3677     8-25-20     154.05.04,
                     154.06.01,
                     156.05.4,
                     156.39
3678     8-25-20     154.02.01
3679     8-25-20     37.35,
                     154.16.11
3687     11-24-20    T.S.O. V
3690     1-12-21     36.02
3691     2-9-21      T.S.O. IX
3692     3-9-21      Chap. 37 , Editor’s Note
3694     5-11-21     T.S.O. V
3695     5-11-21     T.S.O. V
3696     5-11-21     T.S.O. V
3697     5-11-21     T.S.O. V
3698     5-11-21     T.S.O. V
3704     8-10-21     T.S.O. V
3711     10-26-21    T.S.O. IX
3712     10-26-21    154.03.05
3713     10-26-21    36.02
3716     11-23-21    77.01  to
                     77.04
                     37.24 ,
3718     1-11-22     37.25 ,
                     37.29 ,
                     37.35
                    
                    
 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
RES. NO. DATE PASSED CODE SECTION
RES. NO. DATE PASSED CODE SECTION
11-77    8-9-77      T.S.O. V
21-77    12-27-77    T.S.O. I
6-78     2-28-78     T.S.O. V
20-80    8-12-80     33.55 -
                     33.61
23-80    10-14-80    T.S.O. X
14-82    7-13-82     T.S.O. IX
3-83     1-11-83     33.100 -
                     33.102
6-83     2-8-83      T.S.O. XI
7-83     3-8-83      95.03
10-83    5-10-83     T.S.O. V
5-84     2-14-84     T.S.O. XI
11-85    9-24-85     T.S.O. XIII
12-85    10-8-85     33.61
1-86     1-14-86     T.S.O. XII
5-86     4-8-86      34.342
8-86     8-12-86     T.S.O. XI
12-86    11-25-86    T.S.O. IX
15-86    10-28-86    T.S.O. XII
16-87    4-28-87     T.S.O. II
19-87    7-14-87     53.09
25-87    10-13-87    T.S.O. XII
4-88     1-12-88     T.S.O. VII
5-88     1-26-88     95.30
8-88     2-9-88      T.S.O. XII
23-89    8-8-89      50.29
33-89    12-26-89    T.S.O. XI
34-89    11-28-89    T.S.O. XII
14-90    3-27-90     T.S.O. V
23-90    7-10-90     T.S.O. XII
26-90    8-14-90     T.S.O. XI
34-90    12-11-90    33.110 -
                     33.113
35-90    11-27-90    T.S.O. XII
40-90    12-27-90    95.01
6-91     3-12-91     95.30
9-91     4-23-91     T.S.O. II
15-91    5-28-91     T.S.O. XII
17-91    5-28-91     70.02
19-91    5-28-91     T.S.O. XI
24-91    6-25-91     T.S.O. XII
32-91    8-13-91     T.S.O. XI
34-91    10-22-91    T.S.O. XII
1-92     1-14-92     T.S.O. V
3-92     1-14-92     95.30
9-92     3-10-92     T.S.O. XII
15-92    7-14-92     T.S.O. XI
6-93     3-9-93      95.30
7-93     4-13-93     95.01
                     55.15 -
34-93    - -         55.18,
                     55.99
36-93    12-14-93    T.S.O. XII
6-94     2-8-94      95.01
7-94     2-8-94      95.30
13-94    5-10-94     T.S.O. XII
19-94    5-24-94     Ch. 159
26-94    7-12-94     T.S.O. XI
27-94    7-12-94     T.S.O. XI
28-94    7-12-94     T.S.O. XI
29-94    7-12-94     T.S.O. XI
30-94    7-12-94     T.S.O. XI
31-94    7-12-94     T.S.O. XI
32-94    8-9-94      T.S.O. XII
39-94    10-25-94    33.120 -
                     33.124
41-94    11-8-94     T.S.O. XII
15-95    3-14-95     95.30
31-95    6-13-95     T.S.O. XII
37-95    9-12-95     T.S.O. VII
17-96    5-28-96     T.S.O. XII
20-96    6-11-96     T.S.O. XII
26-96    8-13-96     T.S.O. XII
27-96    8-13-96     T.S.O. XII
28-96    8-13-96     T.S.O. XII
29-96    8-27-96     T.S.O. XII
12-97    3-25-97     95.30
21-97    5-27-97     T.S.O. XII
22-97    5-27-97     33.130 -
                     33.134
29-97    8-12-97     154.13
37-97    11-11-97    T.S.O. XII
3-99     1-26-99     95.30
24-2000  10-24-00    53.09
4-2001   2-27-01     95.30
8-2002   2-26-02     95.30
5-2004   2-24-04     95.30
7-2004   3-9-04      95.01
3-2005   2-8-05       
                     95.01
5-2005   2-22-05     95.30
5-2006   2-28-06     95.03
14-2006  5-9-06      33.135 to
                      33.138
20-2006  6-27-06     95.30
16-2007  10-23-07    35.01 to
                     35.06
8-2009   4-21-09     39.01 to
                     39.08
24-2012  6-26-12     Ch. 94 Editor’s Note
45-2012  12-18-12    T.S.O. V
2-2013   1-22-13     94.02
26-2018  8-28-18     T.S.O. V
36-2018  11-13-18    T.S.O. V
37-2018  11-13-18    T.S.O. V
11-2019  3-12-19     T.S.O. V
14-2019  3-26-19     T.S.O. V
15-2019  3-26-19     T.S.O. V
26-2018  8-28-18     T.S.O. V
36-2018  11-13-18    T.S.O. V
37-2018  11-13-18    T.S.O. V
11-2019  3-12-19     T.S.O. V
14-2019  3-26-19     T.S.O. V
15-2019  3-26-19     T.S.O. V
3719     3-8-22      T.S.O. IX
                     37.01 to
                     37.12,
                     37.14,
                     37.18 to
                     37.20,
                     37.22,
3720     3-1-22      37.25,
                     37.26 to
                     37.28,
                     37.30 to
                     37.34,
                     37.36 to
                     37.39
3722     3-22-22     T.S.O. V
                     Repeals
3726     5-24-22     139.01,
                     139.02
3728     7-12-22     36.02
3736     10-11-22    154.11.02
3739     12-13-22    T.S.O. XII
3740     12-13-22    T.S.O. XII
3743     12-20-22    T.S.O. XII
                     34.21,
                     34.22 to
                     34.25,
3745     2-14-23     34.26 to
                     34.31,
                     34.33,
                     34.341
                     37.01 to
                     37.12,
                     37.14,
3748     2-28-23     37.18 to
                     37.22,
                     37.25 to
                     37.40
3750     5-9-23      T.S.O. V
3752     7-11-23     153.01 to 153.26,
                     153.99, Appendix D
                     94.5.094,
3759     11-28-23    94.5.10,
                     94.6.03
                     34.01 to
                     34.045,
                     34.06,
                     34.09,
                     34.11,
                     34.12,
                     34.14,
3760     11-28-23    34.20,
                     34.22,
                     34.225 to
                     34.30,
                     34.33 to
                     34.344,
                     34.35,
                     34.37,
                     34.42
                    
 
 
